Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 1.
Reporting Entity HICL Infrastructure Company Limited the Company is a company domiciled in Guernsey, Channel Islands, whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the year ended 31 March 2013 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Consolidated Group.
The Consolidated Group invests in infrastructure projects in the UK, Canada and Europe.
Of the Consolidated Groups portfolio of 79 investments at 31 March 2013, 54 have been accounted for as investments the Entity Investments in accordance with the accounting policies set out in parts b and d of Note 2.
The 25 remaining investments are deemed to be subsidiaries of the Company the Operating Subsidiaries, and are therefore treated as business combinations as described in parts b and c of Note 2.
Certain items of the accounting policies apply only to the Operating Subsidiaries.
Where applicable, this is noted in the relevant accounting policy note.
Key Accounting Policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 21 May 2013.
The consolidated financial statements which give a true and fair view have been prepared in compliance with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU using the historical cost basis, except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair values: derivative financial instruments and financial instruments classified at fair value through profit or loss.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Companys functional currency.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS as adopted by the EU, requires the Directors and advisers to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expense.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Investment Advisers Report on pages 12 to 21.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Results on pages 22 to 26.
In addition, Notes 1 to 4 and 21 to 22 of the financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with long-term contracts with various public sector customers and suppliers across a range of infrastructure projects.
The financing for these projects and the Operating Subsidiaries is non-recourse to the Group.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the continuing uncertain economic outlook.
The Directors believe that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that year or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Note 3 shows critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions.
Supplementary information has been provided analysing the income statement between those items of a revenue nature and those of a capital nature, in order to better reflect the Consolidated Groups activities as an investment company.
Those items of income and expenditure which relate to the interest and dividend yield of investments and annual operating and interest expenditure are shown as revenue.
Those items of income and expenditure which arise from changes in the fair value of investments, foreign exchange movements, finance receivables and derivative financial instruments are recognised as capital.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 61 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2013 2.
Key Accounting Policies continued a Basis of preparation continued New standards effective for the current year The following EU-endorsed amendments, improvements and interpretations of published standards are effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2012 and have been adopted with no material impact on the Groups financial statements: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments Disclosures.
The amendment introduces new requirements about transfers of financial assets including disclosure for financial assets that are not derecognised in their entirety: and financial assets that are derecognised in their entirety but for which the entity retains continuing involvement.
The amendment introduces an exception to the current measurement principles of deferred tax assets and liabilities arising from investment property measured using the fair value model in accordance with IAS 40 Investment Property.
IFRS 1 First Time Adoption of IFRS.
This change adds an exemption that an entity can apply at the date of transition to IFRSs after being subject to severe hyperinflation.
Standards not yet applied In October 2012 revised IFRS standards were issued Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 to address the consolidation of investments held by investment companies.
These revised accounting standards are expected to require the Group in the future to prepare IFRS financial statements which do not consolidate subsidiaries in a similar manner to the Groups current pro-forma Investment basis tables.
The Group expects that these revised standards will apply to the Group and anticipate adoption of these standards in respect of the year ending March 2014 following their official adoption by the EU.
The Group anticipate that the adoption of the following new, revised, amended and improved published standards and interpretations, which were in issue at the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, will have no material impact on the Financial Statements of the Group when they become applicable in future periods: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of IFRS: IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: Annual Improvements IFRS 2009-2011 cycle: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement: IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements: and IAS 28 Investments in Associates.
b Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements of the Consolidated Group include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries up to 31 March 2013.
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities as defined in IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements on a line by line basis from the date that control commences until the date control ceases.
Nineteen of the twenty-five Operating Subsidiaries have a different statutory financial reporting date to the Company, being either 31 December or 31 January.
Their results for the year to 31 March are included by reference to management accounts.
Associates are those entities over which the Company has significant influence as defined in IAS 28 Investments in Associates.
By virtue of the Companys status as an investment fund and the exemption provided by IAS 28.1, investments in such entities are designated upon initial recognition to be accounted for at fair value through profit or loss.
Joint ventures are those entities over which the Company has joint control as defined by IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures.
By virtue of the Companys status as an investment fund and the exemption provided by IAS 31.1, investments in such entities are designated upon initial recognition to be accounted for at fair value through profit or loss.
Intra-Group receivables, liabilities, revenue and expenses are eliminated in their entirety when preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Gains that arise from intra-group transactions and that are unrealised from the standpoint of the Consolidated Group on the balance sheet date are eliminated in their entirety.
Unrealised losses on intra-group transactions are also eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, to the extent that the loss does not correspond to an impairment loss.
Key Accounting Policies continued c Acquisition of subsidiaries Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Consolidated Group.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, the Consolidated Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that are currently exercisable.
The Consolidated Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: the fair value of the consideration transferred: plus the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree: plus if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree: less the net recognised amount generally fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships.
Such amounts are generally recognised in the profit and loss.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Consolidated Group incurs in conjunction with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
d Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Consolidated Groups balance sheet when the group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the instrument expire or the asset is transferred and the transfer qualifies for derecognition in accordance with IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement.
i Non-derivative financial instruments Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity and debt securities, finance receivables, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings and trade and other payables.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value including directly attributable transaction costs, except for financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Subsequent to initial recognition, non-derivative financial instruments are measured as described below.
Investments in equity and debt securities Entity Investments investments in the equity and loanstock of entities engaged in infrastructure activities which are not classified as subsidiaries of the Consolidated Group are designated at fair value through profit or loss since the Consolidated Group manages these investments and makes purchase and sale decisions based on their fair value.
The initial difference between the transaction price and the fair value, derived from using the discounted cash flows methodology at the date of acquisition, is recognised only when observable market data indicates there is a change in a factor that market participants would consider in setting the price of that investment.
After initial recognition, investments at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value with changes recognised in the income statement.
Finance receivables Finance receivables are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition, finance receivables are measured at fair value using the discounted cash flows methodology, with changes recognised in the income statement as gains loss on finance receivables as a capital item.
Finance receivables are designated at fair value through profit or loss because it eliminates or significantly reduces the accounting mismatch that would result from fair value movements in interest rate swaps.
Loans and borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value of the consideration received, less transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Other Other non-derivative financial instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any impairment losses.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 63 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2013 2.
Key Accounting Policies continued d Financial instruments continued ii Derivative financial instruments The Operating Subsidiaries hold derivative financial instruments to mitigate their interest rate risk and inflation rate risk exposures.
All derivatives are recognised initially at fair value with attributable transaction costs recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Thereafter, derivatives are measured at fair value with changes recognised in the income statement as part of finance costs or income.
Fair value is based on price quotations from financial institutions active in the relevant market.
The Consolidated Group does not use hedge accounting.
iii Fair values The fair values are determined using the income approach, except for derivative financial instruments, which discounts the expected cash flows attributable to each asset at an appropriate rate to arrive at fair values.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, regard is had to relevant long term government bond yields, the specific risks of each investment and the evidence of recent transactions.
iv Effective interest The effective interest rate is that rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the relevant assets carrying amount.
e Intangible assets Intangible assets are recognised as part of a business combination if they are reliably measurable and separable from the acquired entity or give rise to other contractual legal rights.
Only one category of intangible asset has been recognised as part of a business combination to date, being the fair value of service concessions in Operating Subsidiaries as at the date of acquisition.
These assets are being amortised over the life of the concessions concerned on a straight-line basis.
The accounting policies for intangible assets arising under IFRIC 12 are disclosed in part k of this Note.
f Impairment i Financial assets Financial assets, other than those at fair value through profit or loss, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
A financial asset is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates that one or more events have had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount, and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Significant financial assets are tested for impairment on an individual basis.
The remaining financial assets are assessed collectively in groups that share similar credit risk characteristics.
All impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
For financial assets measured at amortised cost the reversal is recognised in the income statement.
ii Non-financial assets The carrying amounts of the Consolidated Groups non-financial assets are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any evidence of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset is the greater of its net selling price and its value in use.
The value in use is determined as the net present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount after the reversal does not exceed the amount that would have been determined, net of applicable depreciation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
g Share capital and share premium Ordinary and C Shares are classified as equity.
Costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or associated with the establishment of the Company that would otherwise have been avoided are written-off against the balance of the share premium account.
h Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement.
Key Accounting Policies continued i Non-controlling interests The interest of non-controlling shareholders is stated at the non-controlling shareholders proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to the non-controlling interest in excess of its carrying value are allocated against the interest of the parent, except to the extent that the non-controlling shareholder has both a binding obligation and the ability to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
j Revenue i Services revenue Services revenue in accordance with IFRIC 12, which relates solely to the Operating Subsidiaries, is comprised of the following components: revenues from the provision of facilities management services to Private Finance Initiative or Public Private Partnerships PFI PPP P3 projects calculated as the fair value of services provided see Note k i : the fair value of the consideration receivable on construction and upgrade services: availability fees and usage fees on PFI PPP P3 projects where the principal asset is accounted for as an intangible asset see Note k ii : and third party revenues on PFI PPP P3 projects calculated as the fair value of services provided.
ii Gains on finance receivables Gains on finance receivables relate solely to the Operating Subsidiaries.
Revenue Gains on finance receivables included in the revenue category includes interest, dividends and other operating income relating to finance receivables designated at fair value through profit or loss.
Interest income arising on finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, using the effective interest rate of the instrument concerned.
Dividends are recognised when the Consolidated Groups rights to receive payment have been established.
That part of the dividend which has already been recognised in the fair value of finance receivable is deducted from the carrying amount of the relevant finance receivable.
Fees and other operating income are recognised when the Consolidated Groups rights to receive payment have been established.
Capital Gains on finance receivables included in the capital category arise from the movement in the fair value of the finance receivables excluding the movements shown as revenue above.
iii Gains on investments Gains on investments relates solely to the Entity Investments.
Revenue Gains on investments included in the revenue category includes interest, dividends and other operating income relating to the Entity Investments.
Interest income arising on Entity Investments is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, using the effective interest rate of the instrument concerned as calculated at the acquisition or origination date.
That part of the dividend which has already been recognised in the fair value of investments is deducted from the carrying amount of the relevant investment.
Capital Gains on investments included in the capital category arise from the movement in the fair value of the Entity Investments excluding the movements shown as revenue above.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 65 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2013 2.
Key Accounting Policies continued k Service concessions In accordance with IFRIC 12 and the various provisions of IFRS, the Consolidated Group has determined the appropriate treatment of the principal assets of, and income streams from, PPP and similar contracts within the Operating Subsidiaries.
Results of all service concessions which fall within the scope of IFRIC 12 conform to the following policies depending on the rights to consideration under the service concessions: i Service concessions treated as financial assets Service concessions are determined to give rise to finance receivables where the Consolidated Group, as operator, has an unconditional contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset from or at the direction of the grantor.
Revenue is recognised by allocating a proportion of total cash receivable to construction income and service income.
The consideration received will be allocated by reference to the relative fair value of the services delivered, when the amounts are separately identifiable.
During the construction phase, revenue is recognised at cost, plus attributable profit to the extent that this is reasonably certain, in accordance with IAS 11.
Costs for this purpose include valuation of all work done by subcontractors whether certified or not, and all overheads other than those relating to the general administration of the relevant companies.
During the operational stage, cash received in respect of the service concessions is allocated to services revenue see part j i of this Note based on its fair value, with the remainder being allocated between capital repayment and interest income using the effective interest method see part j ii of this Note.
The finance receivables are designated as at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with part d of this Note.
The fair values of the finance receivables are determined in a similar manner to that described in part d i, with changes recognised in the income statement.
ii Service concessions treated as intangible assets Service concessions are determined to give rise to intangible assets to the extent the Consolidated Group, as operator, has a contractual right to charge users of the public services.
The intangible asset represents the construction cost of assets which give rise to the contractual right to charge.
The intangible asset is amortised to estimated residual value over the remaining life of the service concession and tested each year for impairment.
Revenue arising in respect of these service concessions is recognised when the services are delivered.
l Borrowing costs Borrowing costs incurred for the construction of any qualifying assets are capitalised during the period of time that is required to complete and prepare the asset for its intended use.
Other borrowing costs are expensed.
m Income tax Under the current system of taxation in Guernsey, the Company itself is exempt from paying taxes on income, profits or capital gains.
The Companys Operating Subsidiaries are UK based and are therefore subject to UK tax legislation.
Dividend and interest income received by the Consolidated Group may be subject to withholding tax imposed in the country of origin of such income, but all such tax is currently recoverable.
Income tax on the profit for the year of the Operating Subsidiaries comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the tax payable on the taxable income for the year.
Deferred tax is provided in full using the balance sheet liability method on temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes, except for differences arising on: the initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting or taxable profit: and investments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities where the group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the difference and it is probable that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to the temporary differences when they reverse, based on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
For the UK Operating Subsidiaries deferred tax is measured at UK tax rates.
A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Key Accounting Policies continued n Foreign exchange gains and losses Transactions entered into by group entities in a currency other than their functional currency are recorded at the rates ruling when the transactions occur.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of unsettled monetary assets and liabilities are recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement as capital amounts.
o Segmental reporting The Chief Operating Decision Maker the CODM is of the opinion that the Group is engaged in a single segment of business, being investment in infrastructure which is currently predominately in private finance initiatives and public private partnership companies in one geographical area, the United Kingdom.
The financial information used by the CODM to allocate resources and manage the group presents the business as a single segment comprising a homogeneous portfolio and is prepared on an Investment basis.
The Investment basis deconsolidates the subsidiary investments.
A reconciliation of the consolidated financial statements to pro-forma statements on an Investment basis is shown within the Financial Results of the annual report.
p Expenses All expenses and the profit share of the General Partner are accounted for on an accruals basis refer to Note 24.
The Consolidated Groups investment management and administration fees, finance costs including interest on long-term borrowings and all other expenses are charged through the consolidated income statement.
q Dividends Dividends are recognised when they become legally payable.
In the case of interim dividends, this is when they are paid.
In the case of final dividends, this is when they are approved by the shareholders at the AGM.
For scrip dividends where the Company issues shares with an equal value to the cash dividend amount as an alternative to the cash dividend a credit to equity is recognised when the shares are issued.
r Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Consolidated Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Consolidated Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
s Statement of compliance Pursuant to the Protection of Investors Bailiwick of Guernsey Law, 1987 the Company is an Authorised Closed-Ended Investment Scheme.
As an authorised scheme, the Company is subject to certain ongoing obligations to the Guernsey Financial Services Commission.
Critical Accounting Judgements, Estimates And Assumptions The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect reported amounts.
The judgements, estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are outlined below.
i Investments at fair value through profit or loss The Consolidated Group has a greater than 50% shareholding in certain entities see Note 15, where in the opinion of the Directors it is unable to govern the financial and operating policies of the entities by virtue of agreements with the other shareholder s. These entities are consequently not treated as subsidiaries, and instead they are accounted for as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, as set out in Note 2 b.
By virtue of the Companys status as an investment fund and the exemption provided by IAS 28.1 and IAS 31.1, investments in associates and joint ventures are designated upon initial recognition to be accounted for at fair value through profit or loss.
Fair values for those investments for which a market quote is not available are determined using the income approach which discounts the expected cash flows at the appropriate rate.
In determining the discount rate, regard is had to relevant long term government bond yields, specific risks and the evidence of recent transactions.
The Directors have satisfied themselves that the PFI PPP P3 investments share the same investment characteristics and as such constitute a single asset class for IFRS 7 disclosure purposes.
The carrying amount of the PFI PPP P3 investments would be an estimated 15.8 million higher or 15.2 million lower 2012: 13.1 million higher or 12.7 million lower if the discount rate used in the discounted cash flow analysis were to differ by 25 basis points from that used in the fair value calculation.
The weighted average discount rate for the PFI PPP P3 portfolio as at 31 March 2013 was 8.4% 2012: 8.6%.
The carrying amount of the PFI PPP P3 investments would be an estimated 10.2 million higher or 9.5 million lower 2012: 9.0 million higher or 8.3 million lower if the inflation rate used in the discounted cash flow analysis were to differ by 25 basis points from that used in the fair value calculation.
The UK inflation rate assumed from 31 March 2013 is 2.75% 2012: 2.75%.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 67 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2013 3.
Critical Accounting Judgements, Estimates And Assumptions continued i Investments at fair value through profit or loss continued The carrying amount of the PFI PPP P3 investments would be an estimated 4.5 million higher or 4.2 million lower 2012: 3.6 million higher or 3.6 million lower if the deposit rates used in the discounted cash flow analysis were to differ by 25 basis points from that used in the fair value calculation.
The UK deposit rates assumed for all future periods from 31 March 2013 were 1% to March 2017 and 3.50% thereafter 2012: 1% to March 2015 and 3.75% thereafter.
ii Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss Fair values are determined using the income approach which discounts the expected cash flows at the appropriate rate.
The carrying amount of finance receivables would be an estimated 62.6 million higher or 60.2 million lower 2012: 42.9 million higher or 41.3 million lower if the discount rate used in the discounted cash flow analysis were to differ by 25 basis points from that used in the fair value calculation.
The discount rates at 31 March 2013 were between 3.0% and 7.1% 2012: between 4.2% and 7.5%.
iii IFRIC 12 Service concessions fall within the scope of IFRIC 12 where the grantor controls or regulates what services the operator must provide with the infrastructure, to whom it must provide them, and the price: and the grantor controls, through ownership, beneficial entitlement or otherwise, any significant residual interest in the infrastructure at the end of the service agreement.
Each subsidiary has been assessed to determine whether it falls within the scope of IFRIC 12.
Following this review it has been determined that all twenty-five subsidiaries controlled at the year-end fall within this scope.
Service concessions are determined to be finance receivables where the operator has a contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset from or at the direction of the grantor.
Alternatively, service concessions are determined to be intangible assets to the extent the operator has a contractual right to charge users of the public services.
iv Intangible assets Intangible assets represent fair value of service concessions for operating subsidiary projects recognised on acquisition, which are primarily attributable to the service portion of the project contracts, and intangible assets recognised under IFRIC 12.
Fair values are determined using the income approach which discounts the expected cash flows attributable to the services portion of the service concessions acquired at an appropriate rate to arrive at fair values.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, regard is had to relevant long term government bond yields and the specific risks of each project.
Financial Instruments Financial risk management Financial risk is managed by the group on an investment basis: for the purposes of this Note, the group comprises the Company, its two wholly-owned Luxembourg subsidiaries HICL Infrastructure 1 SARL and HICL Infrastructure 2 SARL, the English Limited Partnership Infrastructure Investments Limited Partnership IILP and Infrastructure Investments Holdings Limited, and is referred to as the Investment Group.
The objective of the Investment Groups financial risk management is to manage and control the risk exposures of its investment portfolio.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for overseeing the management of financial risks, however the review and management of financial risks are delegated to the Investment Adviser and the Operator of the group which has documented procedures designed to identify, monitor and manage the financial risks to which the Investment Group is exposed.
This Note presents information about the groups exposure to financial risks, its objectives, policies and processes for managing risk and the groups management of its financial resources.
The Investment Group owns a portfolio of investments predominantly in the subordinated loanstock and ordinary equity of project finance companies.
These companies are structured at the outset to minimise financial risks where possible, and the Investment Adviser and Operator primarily focus their risk management on the direct financial risks of acquiring and holding the portfolio but continue to monitor the indirect financial risks of the underlying projects through representation, where appropriate, on the Boards of the project companies and the receipt of regular financial and operational performance reports.
Financial Instruments continued Interest rate risk The Investment Group invests in subordinated loanstock of project companies, usually with fixed interest rate coupons.
Where floating rate debt is owned the primary risk is that the Consolidated Groups cash flows will be subject to variation depending upon changes to base interest rates.
The portfolios cash flows are continually monitored and reforecasted both over the near future five year time horizon and the long-term over whole period of projects concessions to analyse the cash flow returns from investments.
The Investment Group has made limited use of borrowings to finance the acquisition of investments and the forecasts are used to monitor the impact of changes in borrowing rates against cash flow returns from investments as increases in borrowing rates will reduce net interest margins.
The groups policy is to ensure that interest rates are sufficiently hedged to protect the groups net interest margins from significant fluctuations when entering into material medium long term borrowings.
This includes engaging in interest rate swaps or other interest rate derivative contracts.
The Investment Group has an indirect exposure to changes in interest rates through its investment in project companies, which are financed by senior debt.
Senior debt financing of project companies is generally either through floating rate debt, fixed rate bonds or index linked bonds.
Where senior debt is floating rate, the projects typically have concession length hedging arrangements in place, which are monitored by the project companies managers, finance parties and boards of directors.
Floating rate debt is hedged using fixed floating interest rate swaps.
The finance costs in the income statement would be an estimated 25.9 million higher or 26.2 million lower 2012: 18.5 million higher or 18.5 million lower if the interest rates used in the fair value calculation of the interest rate swaps were to differ by 25 basis points.
Inflation risk The groups project companies are generally structured so that contractual income and costs are either wholly or partially linked to specific inflation where possible to minimise the risks of mismatch between income and costs due to movements in inflation indexes.
The Investment Groups overall cashflows vary with inflation, although they are not totally correlated as not all flows are indexed.
The effects of these inflation changes do not always immediately flow through to the Investment Groups cashflows, particularly where a projects loanstock debt carries a fixed coupon and the inflation changes flow through by way of changes to dividends in future periods.
The sensitivity of the portfolio valuation is shown in Note 3 i.
The finance costs in the income statement would be an estimated 24.5 million higher or 24.5 million lower 2012: 14.9 million higher or 14.9 million lower if the RPI rates used in the fair value calculation of the inflation swaps were to differ by 25 basis points.
Market risk Returns from the Investment Groups investments are affected by the price at which they are acquired.
The value of these investments will be a function of the discounted value of their expected future cash flows, and as such will vary with, inter alia, movements in interest rates, market prices and the competition for such assets.
Currency risk The projects in which the group invests all conduct their business and pay interest, dividends and principal in sterling other than its investments in Dutch High Speed Rail, Cork School of Music and Irish Grouped Schools projects comprising 8% of the portfolio by value, which conduct their business and pay their interest, dividends and principal in Euros and its investments in North West Anthony Henday P3 and Kicking Horse Canyon P3 projects comprising 2% of the portfolio by value, which conduct their business and pay interest, dividends and principal in Canadian dollars.
The group monitors its foreign exchange exposures using its near term and long term cash flow forecasts.
Its policy is to use foreign exchange hedging to provide protection to the level of sterling distributions that the Investment Group aims to pay over the medium term, where considered appropriate.
This may involve the use of forward exchange and other currency hedging contracts, as well as the use of Euro, Canadian and other currency denominated borrowings.
The Investment Group at 31 March 2013 hedged its currency exposure through Euros and Canadian dollar forward contracts.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 69 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2013 4.
Financial Instruments continued Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty of the group will be unable or unwilling to meet a commitment that it has entered into with the group.
The groups key direct counterparties are the project companies in which it makes investments.
The Investment Groups near term cash flow forecasts are used to monitor the timing of cash receipts from project counterparties.
Underlying to the cash flow forecast are project company cash flow models, which are regularly updated by project companies and provided to the Operator, for the purposes of demonstrating the projects ability to pay interest and dividends based on a set of detailed assumptions.
Many of the Investment Groups investment and subsidiary entities generally receive revenue from government departments, and public sector or local authority clients.
Therefore a significant portion of the groups investments revenue is with counterparties of good financial standing.
The group is also reliant on the projects subcontractors continuing to perform their service delivery obligations such that revenues to projects are not disrupted.
The Investment Adviser has a subcontractor counterparty monitoring procedure in place.
The credit standing of subcontractors is reviewed, and the risk of default estimated for each significant counterparty position.
Monitoring is ongoing, and period end positions are reported to the Board on a quarterly basis.
The Investment Groups largest credit risk exposure to a project at 31 March 2013 was to the Home Office project 8% of portfolio by value and the largest subcontractor counterparty risk exposure was to subsidiaries of the Carillion group which provided facilities management services in respect of 15% of the portfolio by value.
The Consolidated Group is subject to credit risk on its loans, receivables, cash and deposits.
The Consolidated Groups cash and deposits are held with a variety of well known banks.
The credit quality of loans and receivables within the investment portfolio is based on the financial performance of the individual portfolio companies.
For those assets that are not past due, it is believed that the risk of default is small and capital repayments and interest payments will be made in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions of the investment.
Fair value adjustments, or loan impairments, are made when the net present value of the future cash flows predicted to arise from the asset, discounted using the effective interest rate method, implies non-recovery of all or part of the Groups loan investment.
In these cases a loan impairment is recorded equal to the valuation shortfall.
As at 31 March 2013, the ageing of trade receivables past due but not impaired were as follows: 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 million million 3 to 6 months due 0.5 0.4 Over 6 months due 0.5 0.6 1.0 1.0 At 31 March 2013 there were no loans and other receivables considered impaired 2012: Nil for the Consolidated Group.
The Consolidated Groups maximum exposure to credit risk over financial assets is the carrying value of those assets in the balance sheet.
The Consolidated Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as these fall due.
The groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient financial resources and liquidity to meets its liabilities when due.
The group ensures it maintains adequate reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing facilities by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
The Investment Groups investments are predominantly funded by share capital and medium term debt funding.
The Investment Groups investments are generally in private companies in which there is no listed market and therefore such investment would take time to realise and there is no assurance that the valuations placed on the investments would be achieved from any such sale process.
The Investment Groups investments have borrowings which rank senior to the Investment Groups own investments into the companies.
This senior debt is structured such that, under normal operating conditions, it will be repaid within the expected life of the projects.
Debt raised by the investment companies from third parties is without recourse to the Investment Group.
The Investment Groups investments may include obligations to make future investment amounts.
These obligations will typically be supported by standby letters of credit, issued by the Investment Groups bankers in favour of the senior lenders to the investment companies.
Such subscription obligations are met from the Investment Groups cash resources when they fall due.
Such obligations totalled 12.7 million 2012: Nil at the year end.
The next table analyses the Consolidated Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts in the table are the contracted undiscounted cashflows including the impact of netting agreements.
Financial Instruments continued Less than Between Between More than 31 March 2013 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years million million million million Bank borrowings 53.4 28.8 89.9 804.0 Trade and other payables 61.3 Interest on bank borrowings 50.0 48.8 146.4 485.6 Other loans and borrowings 28.1 30.7 104.5 915.5 Interest on other loans and borrowings 23.7 22.6 67.9 278.2 Other financial liabilities 62.6 61.8 137.8 190.0 Total 279.1 192.7 546.5 2,673.3 Less than Between Between More than 31 March 2012 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years million million million million Bank borrowings 165.321.470.0649.2 Trade and other payables 48.1 Interest on bank borrowings 42.3 40.9 119.6 386.1 Other loans and borrowings 19.8 18.6 72.4 752.5 Interest on other loans and borrowings 19.4 19.2 60.3 234.0 Other financial liabilities 31.9 30.6 59.3 163.9 Total 326.8 130.7 381.6 2,185.7 Capital management The Investment Group has a 100 million revolving acquisition facility of which 59.3 million was undrawn at year end.
Further equity raisings are considered when debt drawings are at an appropriate level.
The proceeds from the share issues are used to repay debt and to fund future investment commitments.
In March 2013 the Company raised 167.3 million before costs in an equity capital raising, the net proceeds of which were on deposit at year end prior to repayment of the drawings under the Investment Groups 100 million revolving facility in April 2013.
The Investment Group makes prudent use of its leverage.
Under the Articles the Investment Groups outstanding borrowings, including any financial guarantees to support outstanding subscription obligations but excluding internal Investment Group borrowings of the Investment Groups underlying investments, are limited to 50% of the Adjusted Gross Asset Value of its investments and cash balances at any time.
The ratio of the Investment Groups debt to Adjusted Gross Asset Value at the end of the year was as follows: 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 million million Outstanding drawings Bank borrowings 27.9 141.3 Letter of credit facility 12.8 40.7 141.3 Adjusted Gross Asset Value Portfolio valuation 1,213.1 902.0 Cash and cash equivalents 172.9 267.9 1,386.0 1,169.9 Borrowing concentration 2.9% 12.1% From time to time the Company issues its own shares to the market: the timing of these purchases depends on market prices.
In order to assist in the narrowing of any discount to the Net Asset Value at which the Ordinary Shares may trade from time to time, the Company may, at the sole discretion of the Directors: make market purchases of up to 14.99% per annum of its issued Ordinary Shares: and make tender offers for the Ordinary Shares.
There were no changes in the Investment Groups approach to capital management during the year.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 71 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2013 4.
Financial Instruments continued Fair value estimation The following summarises the significant methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments: Non-derivative financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Consolidated Group uses the income approach which discounts the expected cash flows attributable to each asset at an appropriate rate to arrive at fair values.
In determining the discount rate, regard is had to relevant long term government bond yields, the specific risks of each investment and the evidence of recent transactions.
Derivative financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Consolidated Group is the current bid price.
Note 2 discloses the methods used in determining fair values on a specific asset liability basis.
Where applicable, further information about the assumptions used in determining fair value is disclosed in the Notes specific to that asset or liability.
Classification of financial instruments 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 million million Financial assets Designated at fair value through profit or loss Investment in Entity Investments 670.5 524.3 Operating Subsidiaries financial assets 2,475.2 1,770.6 Financial assets at fair value 3,145.7 2,294.9 Loans and receivables Other financial assets 0.8 Trade and other receivables 26.6 29.2 Cash and cash equivalents 326.6 373.7 Financial assets at amortised cost 354.0 402.9 Financial liabilities Designated at fair value through profit or loss Other financial liabilities fair value of derivatives 452.2 259.9 Financial liabilities at fair value 452.2 259.9 At amortised cost Trade and other payables 61.3 48.1 Loans and borrowings 1,950.9 1,601.3 Financial liabilities at amortised cost 2,012.2 1,649.4 The Directors believe that the carrying values of all financial instruments, except the fixed rate and RPI-linked borrowings, are not materially different to their fair values.
See Note 21 for the comparison between fair values and the carrying values of the fixed rate and RPI-linked borrowings.
Secured loans and borrowings totalling 1,925.2 million 2012: 1,576.6 million are secured by fixed and or floating charges over the Consolidated Groups financial assets.
The terms of these charges are generally of a form that are usual and customary to project finance borrowing and lending activities.
Financial Instruments continued Fair value hierarchy The fair value hierarchy is defined as follows: Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
As at 31 March 2013 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total million million million million Investments at fair value through profit or loss Note 15 670.5 670.5 Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss Note 17 2,475.2 2,475.2 3,145.7 3,145.7 Other financial liabilities fair value of derivatives Note 22 452.2 452.2 452.2 452.2 As at 31 March 2012 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total million million million million Investments at fair value through profit or loss Note 15 524.3 524.3 Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss Note 17 1,770.6 1,770.6 2,294.9 2,294.9 Other financial liabilities fair value of derivatives Note 22 259.9 259.9 259.9 259.9 There were no transfers between Level 1 and 2 during the year.
Reconciliations of Level 3 assets from beginning balances to the ending balances, disclosing separately changes during the year are disclosed in Notes 15 and 17 respectively.
Sensitivity analysis disclosing the effect of different economic assumptions on the fair value of the Level 3 assets are disclosed in Note 3.
Services Revenue For year ended For year ended 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 million million Service revenue 173.0 140.7 Construction revenue 16.7 8.5 Other revenue 0.7 0.7 190.4 149.9 Revenue from 4 customers which each represent more than 10% of the Consolidated Groups total revenues provide approximately 100.6 million of revenue 2012: 62.9 million from 3 customers each representing more than 10% of the Consolidated Groups total revenues.
The Consolidated Group has treated each Government entity and or department as a separate customer.
All services revenue is derived from customers domiciled in the United Kingdom.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 73 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2013 6.
Gains on Investments For the year ended For the year ended 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 Revenue Capital Total Revenue Capital Total million million million million million million Interest from investments 31.7 31.7 21.2 21.2 Dividend income from investments 9.9 9.9 6.7 6.7 Fees and other operating income 6.5 6.5 1.4 1.4 Gains on investments Note 15 20.0 20.0 20.8 20.8 48.1 20.0 68.1 29.3 20.8 50.1 Included within the gain on valuation is an unrealised exchange gain of 2.1 million on the Consolidated Groups Euro and Canadian borrowings 2012: 0.2 million.
The following exchange rates were used at the year end: 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 Euro 0.84 0.83 Canadian 0.65 0.63 7.
Services Costs For year ended For year ended 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 million million Service and construction costs 143.9 110.6 Amortisation of intangibles see Note 14 17.6 13.5 Other costs 7.7 5.9 169.2 130.0 8.
Administrative Expenses For year ended For year ended 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 million million Fees payable to the Consolidated Groups auditors for the audit of the Consolidated Group accounts 0.2 0.1 Fees payable to the Consolidated Groups auditors and its associates for other services: Audit of financial statements of Operating Subsidiaries of the Company 0.2 0.2 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Taxation compliance services 0.1 Other Tax advisory services 0.1 Management fees 3.6 2.6 Operator fees Note 24 11.2 8.6 Investment fees Note 24 1.8 2.5 Directors fees Note 24 0.2 0.2 Professional fees 1.4 0.9 Project bid costs 0.2 0.7 Other costs 0.9 1.5 20.0 17.4 In addition to the above an amount of 0.3 million 2012: 0.3 million was paid to associates of the Consolidated Groups auditors in respect of audit and tax services provided to Entity Investments and therefore not included within consolidated administrative expenses and an amount of 47 thousand was paid to the auditor for audit assurance work on the capital raising in March 2013 this amount is not included in Administrative expenses above as it is included as a Cost of Ordinary Share issue included in the Share premium account.
The Consolidated Group had no employees during the year.
Net Finance Costs For the year ended For the year ended 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 Revenue Capital Total Revenue Capital Total million million million million million million Interest expense: Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 58.4 58.4 40.4 40.4 Interest and indexation on other loans 42.0 42.0 39.1 39.1 Other finance costs 1.1 5.7 4.6 2.9 4.7 7.6 Change in fair value of interest and inflation rate swaps 68.1 68.1 64.8 64.8 Total finance costs 101.5 62.4 163.9 82.4 69.5 151.9 Interest income: Interest on bank deposits 1.0 1.0 0.9 0.9 Other finance income 4.8 4.8 Change in fair value of interest and inflation rate swaps Total finance income 1.0 1.0 0.9 4.8 5.7 Net finance costs income 100.5 62.4 162.9 81.5 64.7 146.2 10.
Income Tax Under the current system of taxation in Guernsey, the Company itself is exempt from paying taxes on income, profits or capital gains.
Therefore, income from investments is not subject to any further tax in Guernsey, although these investments will bear tax in the individual jurisdictions in which they operate.
The Companys Operating Subsidiaries are UK based and as a consequence are bound by UK tax legislation.
Operating Subsidiaries in the UK have provided for UK corporation tax at the rate of 24% for current tax liabilities 2012: 26% and 23% for deferred tax assets and liabilities 2012: 24%.
Changes in overseas tax rates The Finance Act 2012 was enacted on 17 July 2012 to amend the UK corporation tax rate to 23% with effect from 1 April 2013.
In addition, the UK Government announced in the 2013 Budget Statement further reductions of the rate to 21% and 20% by 1 April 2014 and 1 April 2015 respectively.
Other than the change to 23% from 1 April 2013, the effects of the announced changes are not reflected in the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 as they have not yet been enacted however the impact would be a reduction in deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Income Tax Expense For year ended For year ended 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 million million Foreign current tax: Foreign corporation tax on profits for the year 1.3 0.3 Total current tax credit expense 1.3 0.3 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences Note 10d 13.4 0.9 Total income tax credit in the consolidated income statement 12.1 0.6 The income tax credit in the year of 12.1 million 2012: 0.6 million is primarily due to movements in deferred tax.
The main components of the deferred tax movement recognised in the profit or loss arises from a reduction in the UK corporation tax rate to 23% which has led to a re-measurement of the Consolidated Groups deferred tax asset and liability and adverse movements in the fair value of derivatives.
The effect of the reduction in the UK corporation tax rate has resulted in a reduction in the deferred tax asset and liability and a corresponding tax credit.
Further analysis of deferred tax movements recognised in the consolidated income statement is detailed in Note 10d.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 75 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2013 10b.
Reconciliation of Effective Tax Rate For year ended For year ended 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 million million Profit before taxation 55.4 84.2 Expected tax on profit at 0% 2012: 0% Different tax rates applied in overseas jurisdictions 12.8 1.7 Tax losses utilised recognised 0.7 1.1 Total income tax credit for the year 12.1 0.6 10c.
Recognised Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: As at 31 March 2013 As at 31 March 2012 Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net million million million million million million Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss 0.9 131.9 131.0 0.9 85.7 84.8 Intangible assets 98.0 98.0 91.0 91.0 Subordinated debt 16.5 1.3 15.2 15.0 1.3 13.7 Other financial liabilities fair value of derivatives 120.6 12.3 108.3 77.7 12.3 65.4 Tax losses 15.4 15.4 16.1 16.1 Carrying value of finance receivable on acquisition where there is no available tax deduction 44.1 44.1 48.4 48.4 Net assets liabilities 153.4 287.6 134.2 109.7 238.7 129.0 10d.
Deferred Tax Movements For the year ended 31 March 2013 Acquired in Recognised Opening business in profit Closing balance combination or loss balance million million million million Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss 84.8 37.6 8.6 131.0 Intangible assets 91.0 14.5 7.5 98.0 Subordinated debt 13.7 2.6 1.1 15.2 Other financial liabilities fair value of derivatives 65.4 30.9 12.0 108.3 Tax losses 16.1 0.7 15.4 Carrying value of finance receivable on acquisition where there is no available tax deduction 48.4 4.3 44.1 Other 129.0 18.6 13.4 134.2 76 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 10d.
Deferred Tax Movements continued For the year ended 31 March 2012 Acquired in Recognised Opening business in profit Closing balance combination or loss balance million million million million Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss 21.9 39.6 23.3 84.8 Intangible assets 43.2 56.7 8.9 91.0 Subordinated debt 7.6 6.0 0.1 13.7 Other financial liabilities fair value of derivatives 8.3 44.5 12.6 65.4 Tax losses 4.6 12.6 1.1 16.1 Carrying value of finance receivable on acquisition where there is no available tax deduction 26.1 26.1 3.8 48.4 Other 0.1 0.1 70.6 59.3 0.9 129.0 11.
Basic and Diluted Earnings per Share Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the year.
2013 2012 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 65.2 million 82.8 million Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 898.3 million 633.4 million Basic and diluted earnings per Ordinary Share 7.3 pence 13.1 pence Further details of shares issued in the year are set out in Note 23.
Dividends For year ended For year ended 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 million million Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders during the year: Second interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2012 of 3.5p 2011: 3.425p per share 23.3 20.4 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2013 of 3.425p 2012: 3.35p per share 30.3 21.5 53.6 41.9 Second interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2013 of 3.575p 2012: 3.5p per share 34.9 23.3 The second interim dividend was approved by the Board on 21 February 2013 and was paid on 22 April 2013 to shareholders on the register as at 1 March 2013.
The second interim dividend was paid to shareholders as a cash payment or alternatively as a scrip dividend.
The dividend has not been included as a liability at 31 March 2013.
The 2012 second interim dividend and the first 2013 interim dividend are included in the statement of changes in shareholder equity.
For year ended For year ended 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 Interim dividend for the period ended September 3.425p 3.35p Interim dividend for the period ended March 3.575p 3.50p 7.0p 6.85p H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 77 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2013 13.
Net Assets per Ordinary Share 2013 2012 million million Shareholders equity at 31 March 1,311.3 778.1 Less: second interim dividend 34.9 23.3 1,276.4 754.8 Number of shares at 31 March 1,116.3 665.4 Net assets per share after deducting second interim dividend 114.3p 113.5p Add second interim dividend 3.575p 3.5p Net assets per Ordinary Share at 31 March 117.9p 117.0p 3.575p declared on 21 February 2013 and paid on 22 April 2013 3.5p declared on 12 April 2012 and paid on 29 June 2012 The Net assets per share at 31 March 2013 is that applicable to the 976.4 million Ordinary Shares in issue on the record date of 1 March 2013.
The 140 million Ordinary Shares issued on 27 March 2013 pursuant to the New Ordinary Share Prospectus of 26 February 2013 were not eligible for the second interim dividend of 3.575p.
The Net assets per share at 31 March 2013 applicable to the 140 million Ordinary Shares issued on 27 March 2013 is 114.3p on an IFRS basis.
Intangible Assets 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 million million Cost Opening balance 416.2 189.5 Acquisition through business combinations 63.1 226.7 Balance as at 31 March 479.3 416.2 Amortisation Opening balance 41.0 27.5 Amortisation for the year 17.6 13.5 Balance as at 31 March 58.6 41.0 Carrying amounts At 31 March 420.7 375.2 Intangible assets represent the fair value of customer contracts for operating subsidiary projects recognised on acquisition, which are primarily attributable to the service portion of the project contracts, and intangible assets recognised under IFRIC 12.
See Note 3 iv for the methods and assumptions used in determining the fair values.
Intangibles are being amortised on a straight line basis over the forecast remaining life of the concessions concerned on acquisition of the subsidiaries range from between 10.5 and 29.5 years.
Amortisation of 17.6 million 2012: 13.5 million is included within service cost expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Investments at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 million million Opening balance 524.3 426.0 Investments in the year 181.1 236.6 Disposals in the year 4.0 Accrued interest 2.7 6.7 Repayments in the year 12.1 37.8 Subscription obligations 46.7 Gains on valuation 18.9 21.9 Investments consolidated during the year 35.2 161.6 Other movements 0.2 0.8 Carrying amount at year end 670.5 524.3 This is represented by: Less than one year Greater than one year 670.5 524.3 Carrying amount at year end 670.5 524.3 Gains on valuation as above 18.9 21.9 Gain on disposal 1.3 Less: transaction costs incurred 0.2 1.1 Gains on investments 20.0 20.8 The gains on investment have been included in Gains on investments presented in the consolidated income statement as capital items.
The Investment Adviser has carried out fair market valuations of the investments as at 31 March 2013.
The Directors have satisfied themselves as to the methodology used, the discount rates applied, and the valuation.
The Directors have also obtained an independent opinion from a third party with considerable expertise in valuing these types of investments, supporting the reasonableness of the valuation.
All investments in PFI PPP P3 projects are valued using a discounted cashflow methodology.
The valuation techniques and methodologies have been applied consistently with the prior year.
Discount rates applied range from 8.0% to 10.0% weighted average of 8.4% 2012: 8.2% to 11.0% weighted average of 8.6%.
The following economic assumptions were used in the discounted cashflow valuations: UK inflation rates 2.75% Holland, Ireland and Canada inflation rates 2.0% UK deposit interest rates 1% to March 2017 and 3.50% thereafter UK corporation tax rate 23% Euro Sterling exchange rate 0.84 for all future periods Can$ Sterling exchange rate 0.65 for all future periods The economic assumptions for the year ended 31 March 2012 were as follows: UK inflation rates 2.75% Holland, Ireland and Canada inflation rates 2.0% UK deposit interest rates 1% to March 2015 and 3.75% thereafter UK corporation tax rate 24% Euro Sterling exchange rate 0.83 for all future periods Can$ Sterling exchange rate 0.63 for all future periods H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 79 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2013 15.
Investments at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss continued Investments are generally restricted on their ability to transfer funds to the Group under the terms of their senior funding arrangements for that investment.
Significant restrictions include: Historic and projected debt service and loan life cover ratios exceed a given threshold: Required cash reserve account levels are met: Senior lenders have agreed the current financial model that forecasts the economic performance of the project company: Project company is in compliance with the terms of its senior funding arrangements: and Senior lenders have approved the annual budget for the company.
Investments at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss continued Percentage Holding 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 Subordinated Mezzanine Subordinated Mezzanine Investments project name Equity loanstock debt Equity loanstock debt Newcastle Libraries 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% Newport Schools 80.0% 80.0% 80.0% 80.0% Newton Abbot Hospital 50.0% 100.0% 50.0% 100.0% North Tyneside Schools 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% 6 North West Anthony Henday P3 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% Northwood MOD 50.0% 50.0% Norwich Schools 75.0% 75.0% 75.0% 75.0% Oldham Library 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% Oldham Schools 75.0% 75.0% 75.0% 75.0% Oxford Churchill Oncology 40.0% 40.0% 40.0% 40.0% Oxford Nuffield Hospital 25.0% 25.0% 25.0% 25.0% Pinderfields & Pontefract Hospitals 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% Renfrewshire Schools 30.0% 30.0% 30.0% 30.0% Romford Hospital 66.7% 66.7% 50.0% 50.0% Sheffield Hospital 75.0% 75.0% 75.0% 75.0% Sheffield Schools 37.5% 37.5% 37.5% 37.5% South East London Police Stations 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% Staffordshire LIFT 30.0% 45.0% 1 Sussex Custodial Centre 89.9% 100.0% Swindon Police 80.0% 80.0% 80.0% 80.0% West Lothian Schools 75.0% 75.0% Willesden Hospital 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% Wooldale Centre 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% 1 Incremental acquisitions of additional stakes during the year have resulted in these investments being deemed subsidiaries of the Company see Note 16 and 28.
2 The company is incorporated in Ireland.
3 The company is incorporated in the Netherlands.
4 The Consolidated Groups share of the projects capital commitments is 13.5 million.
5 The Consolidated Groups economic interest in the Helicopter Training project includes the above investment in CAE Aircrew Training Services Plc Op Co and the controlling interest in CVS Leasing Limited Asset Co see Note 28.
6 The company is incorporated in Canada.
7 The investment was sold in November 2012 There are no other future loanstock or capital commitments on other investments at fair value through the profit or loss.
Acquisition of Subsidiaries Year ended 31 March 2013 Investments which become subsidiaries through the acquisition of an additional equity interest are held as investments at fair value and therefore there is no gain or loss as a result of re-measuring to fair value the interests held prior to the acquisitions.
Fair values were determined using the income approach which discounts the expected cash flows attributable to each asset at an appropriate rate to arrive at fair values.
Intangible assets represent the fair value of customer contracts for operating subsidiary projects recognised on acquisition, which are primarily attributable to the service portion of the project contracts, and intangible assets recognised under IFRIC 12.
Intangibles are amortised on a straight line basis over the remaining life of the concessions concerned.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 81 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2013 16a.
Acquisition of Subsidiaries continued Dorset Fire and Rescue DFR On 27 September 2012 the Group obtained control of DFR by acquiring 33.0% of the equity in the project.
As a result the Groups equity interest increased from 67.0% to 100.0%.
The transaction cost was fide minimus.
The project involved the design, construction, financing and maintenance of the fire and police facilities at three sites in Dorset, UK, for the Dorset Fire Authority & the Police and Crime Commissioner for Dorset formerly the Dorset Police Authority.
The facilities have been operational since 2008. a Consideration million Cash 3.8 b Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed million Intangibles 3.5 Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss 61.0 Deferred tax assets 1.7 Cash and cash equivalents 1.3 Other current assets 0.7 Current liabilities 0.5 Deferred tax liabilities 3.1 Other non-current liabilities 52.3 12.3 c Goodwill million Total consideration transferred 3.8 Fair value of previous interest in acquiree 8.5 Less fair value of net identifiable assets 12.3 In the six months to 31 March 2013 the acquisition contributed no material income and losses of 0.9 million.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2012, management estimates that consolidated revenue would have been 409.1 million, and consolidated profit for the year would have been 65.9 million.
Acquisition of Subsidiaries continued Sussex Custodial Sussex On 12 December 2012 the Group obtained control of Sussex by acquiring 10.1% of the equity in the project.
As a result the Groups equity interest increased from 89.9% to 100.0%.
The project involved the build and service of three custody centres in Sussex, UK, for the Police and Crime Commissioner for Sussex formerly the Sussex Police Authority whilst a fourth centre was subsequently contracted for as a variation.
The first of the centres became operational in November 2002. a Consideration million Cash 0.5 b Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed million Intangibles 11.4 Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss 18.8 Deferred tax assets 1.4 Cash and cash equivalents 1.5 Other current assets 1.1 Current liabilities 1.2 Deferred tax liabilities 3.3 Other non-current liabilities 20.0 9.7 c Goodwill million Total consideration transferred 0.5 Fair value of previous interest in acquiree 9.2 Less fair value of net identifiable assets 9.7 In the three months to 31 March 2013 the acquisition contributed income of 3.1 million and profits of 0.2 million.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2012, management estimates that consolidated revenue would have been 418.1 million, and consolidated profit for the year would have been 67.3 million.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 83 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2013 16a.
Acquisition of Subsidiaries continued Edinburgh Schools Edinburgh On 13 December 2012 the Group obtained control of Edinburgh by acquiring 100.0% of the equity in the project.
The transaction cost was 0.1 million and has been expensed in the consolidated income statement.
The project involved the design, construction, financing and maintenance of six secondary schools and two primary schools in and around Edinburgh, Scotland.
The schools became operational between 2008 and 2010. a Consideration million Cash 37.0 b Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed million Intangibles 19.9 Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss 235.5 Deferred tax assets 12.9 Cash and cash equivalents 6.4 Other current assets 0.5 Current liabilities 5.7 Deferred tax liabilities 20.3 Other non-current liabilities 212.2 37.0 c Goodwill million Total consideration transferred 37.0 Less fair value of net identifiable assets 37.0 In the three months to 31 March 2013 the acquisition contributed income of 5.1 million and losses of 2.5 million.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2012, management estimates that consolidated revenue would have been 424.8 million, and consolidated profit for the year would have been 71.4 million.
Acquisition of Subsidiaries continued Perth & Kinross Schools P&K On 13 December 2012 the Group obtained control of P&K by acquiring 100.0% of the equity in the project.
The project involved the design, construction, financing and operation of four secondary schools and five primary schools in central Scotland.
The facilities became operational between 2009 and 2010. a Consideration million Cash 19.6 b Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed million Intangibles 28.2 Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss 194.2 Deferred tax assets 14.6 Cash and cash equivalents 8.1 Other current assets 0.3 Current liabilities 3.6 Deferred tax liabilities 20.0 Other non-current liabilities 202.2 19.6 c Goodwill million Total consideration transferred 19.6 Less fair value of net identifiable assets 19.6 In the three months to 31 March 2013 the acquisition contributed income of 4.6 million and losses of 9.3 million.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2012, management estimates that consolidated revenue would have been 424.4 million, and consolidated profit for the year would have been 80.3 million.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 85 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2013 16a.
Acquisition of Subsidiaries continued Highland Schools Highland On 22 March 2013 the Group obtained control of Highland by acquiring 50.0% of the equity in the project.
As a result the Groups equity interest increased from 50.0% to 100.0%.
The project involved the design, build and operation of eleven rural and urban schools in Scotland comprising of five primary schools, three secondary schools, a combined primary and secondary schools and a special needs school.
The building phase commenced in 2006. a Consideration million Cash 21.2 b Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed million Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss 170.1 Deferred tax assets 3.0 Cash and cash equivalents 10.2 Other current assets 2.1 Current liabilities 2.9 Deferred tax liabilities 6.5 Other non-current liabilities 133.6 42.4 c Goodwill million Total consideration transferred 21.2 Fair value of previous interest in acquiree 21.2 Less fair value of net identifiable assets 42.4 The acquisition occurred on 22 March 2013 and therefore contributed no material income or profits.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2012, management estimates that consolidated revenue would have been 425.3 million, and consolidated profit for the year would have been 67.2 million.
In September 2012 the Group acquired an additional 10% of the equity and loanstock in two subsidiaries, Exeter Crown Court and Stoke Mandeville Hospital.
As a result, the Groups equity and loanstock interest in both increased to 100%.
The total consideration paid for these interests was 1.7 million and an immaterial movement in non-controlling interests resulted from this transaction.
Acquisition of Subsidiaries continued Year ended 31 March 2012 Investments which become subsidiaries through the acquisition of an additional equity interest are held as investments at fair value and therefore there is no gain or loss as a result of re-measuring to fair value the interests held prior to the acquisitions.
South Ayrshire Schools Project SAS On 10 June 2011 the Group obtained control of SAS, by acquiring 100.0% of the equity and loanstock in the project.
The transaction costs were 0.1 million and have been expensed to administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement.
The project involved the financing, design and construction and subsequent operation of three new primary schools, two new secondary schools and a new performing arts annex at an existing secondary school.
All the schools became operational between January 2008 and January 2010. a Consideration million Cash 15.8 b Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed million Intangibles 23.4 Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss 83.2 Deferred tax assets 3.9 Cash and cash equivalents 2.2 Other current assets 1.4 Current liabilities 2.2 Deferred tax liabilities 5.9 Other non-current liabilities 90.2 15.8 c Goodwill million Total consideration transferred 15.8 Less fair value of net identifiable assets 15.8 In the nine months to 31 March 2012 the acquisition contributed income of 8.9 million and losses of 9.4 million.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2011, management estimates that consolidated revenue for the Group would have been 380.8 million, and consolidated profit for the year for the Group would have been 83.3 million.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 87 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2013 16a.
Acquisition of Subsidiaries continued The Hospital Company QAH Limited QAH On 23 June 2011 the Group obtained control of QAH, by acquiring 10.1% of the equity in the project.
As a result, the Groups equity interest increased from 89.9% to 100.0%.
This project is a concession to design and construct a new hospital and retained estates work in Portsmouth, which became operational in 2010. a Consideration million Cash 2.8 b Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed million Intangibles 35.8 Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss 345.4 Deferred tax assets 14.2 Cash and cash equivalents 17.9 Other current assets 9.6 Current liabilities 7.0 Deferred tax liabilities 25.1 Other non-current liabilities 324.3 66.5 c Goodwill million Total consideration transferred 2.8 Fair value of previous interest in acquiree 63.7 Less fair value of net identifiable assets 66.5 In the nine months to 31 March 2012 the acquisition contributed income of 62.6 million and profits of 16.6 million.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2011, management estimates that consolidated revenue for the Group would have been 398.7 million, and consolidated profit for the year for the Group would have been 86.8 million.
Acquisition of Subsidiaries continued The Hospital Company OJR Limited OJR On 23 June 2011 the Group obtained control of OJR, by acquiring 10.1% of the equity in the project.
This project is a concession to design, construct, manage, finance, operate and maintain a new wing adjacent to the former Radcliffe Infirmary.
Construction was completed ahead of schedule in March 2001. a Consideration million Cash 1.2 b Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed million Intangibles 70.5 Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss 150.3 Deferred tax assets 19.4 Cash and cash equivalents 10.4 Other current assets 3.1 Current liabilities 4.6 Deferred tax liabilities 24.4 Other non-current liabilities 191.6 33.1 c Goodwill million Total consideration transferred 1.2 Fair value of previous interest in acquiree 31.9 Less fair value of net identifiable assets 33.1 In the nine months to 31 March 2012 the acquisition contributed income of 31.4 million and losses of 2.4 million.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2011, management estimates that consolidated revenue for the Group would have been 388.3 million, and consolidated profit for the year for the Group would have been 85.0 million.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 89 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2013 16a.
Acquisition of Subsidiaries continued Blackburn Hospital On 10 November 2011 the Group obtained control of Blackburn Hospital, by acquiring 50.0% of the equity in the project.
As a result, the Groups equity interest increased from 50.0% to 100.0%.
The Group also acquired the remaining 50.0% of the loanstock.
The project involved the design, construction, financing and maintenance of new facilities at the Queens Park Hospital in Blackburn for the East Lancashire Hospitals NHS Trust.
The new facilities have been operational since 2003. a Consideration million Cash 13.8 b Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed million Intangibles 38.2 Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss 170.9 Deferred tax assets 12.7 Cash and cash equivalents 9.3 Other current assets 2.5 Current liabilities 3.4 Deferred tax liabilities 48.7 Other non-current liabilities 155.5 26.0 c Goodwill million Total consideration transferred 13.8 Fair value of previous interest in acquiree 12.2 Less fair value of net identifiable assets 26.0 In the six months to 31 March 2012 the acquisition contributed income of 11.4 million and profits of 2.8 million.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2011, management estimates that consolidated revenue would have been 389.2 million, and consolidated profit for the year would have been 83.4 million.
Acquisition of Subsidiaries continued Portfolio acquisition On 19 December 2011 the Group acquired a portfolio of 26 PFI PPP projects from two infrastructure funds managed by Barclays Infrastructure Funds Management Limited.
Of the 26, 5 have been treated as subsidiaries and 21 have been treated as investments in associates or joint ventures.
Transaction costs of 0.2 million relating to the subsidiaries have been expensed to administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement and 0.7 million relating to the other projects have been capitalised.
All of the 26 projects are operational and, apart from two investments in The Republic of Ireland the Cork School of Music and Irish Grouped schools project all are based in the UK.
a Consideration million Cash 143.4 b Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed million Intangibles 58.9 Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss 159.1 Investments at fair value through profit or loss 108.1 Deferred tax assets 12.6 Cash and cash equivalents 13.8 Other current assets 1.4 Current liabilities 5.9 Deferred tax liabilities 18.9 Other non-current liabilities 185.7 143.4 c Goodwill million Total consideration transferred 140.4 Deferred consideration 3.0 Less fair value of net identifiable assets 143.4 The deferred consideration of 3.0 million relates to five outstanding construction and operation matters on one project.
As and when these are resolved satisfactorily, portions of the consideration are released.
At 31 March 2013, 0.8 million of the deferred consideration remains outstanding.
Any deferred consideration not paid by June 2013 will remain with the Group.
In the three months to 31 March 2012 the acquisition contributed negative income of 0.5 million and losses of 0.4 million.
If the acquisition occurred on 1 April 2011, management estimates that consolidated revenue would have been 376.2 million, and consolidated profit for the year would have been 72.3 million.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 91 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2013 16b.
Acquisition of Other Investments Year ended 31 March 2013 The Consolidated Group has acquired a greater than 50% shareholding in certain entities see Note 15, where in the opinion of the Directors it is unable to govern the financial and operating policies of the entities by virtue of agreements with the other shareholder s. These entities are consequently not treated as subsidiaries, and instead they are accounted for as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, as set out in Note 2 b.
In May 2012 the Company completed an incremental acquisition in RMPA Holdings Limited Colchester Garrison for a consideration of 15.0 million taking its shareholding to 56%.
In May 2012 the Company completed an acquisition of 30% in Consort Healthcare Birmingham Holdings Limited Birmingham Hospital for a consideration of 34.6 million.
In May 2012 the Company completed an acquisition of 19.5% in Citylink Telecommunications Holdings Limited Connect PFI for a consideration of 39.0 million.
In July 2012 the Company completed an acquisition of 75% in Central Blackpool PCC Holding Company Limited Blackpool Primary Care through Redwood Partnership Ventures 2 Limited RPV2L for a consideration of 2.9 million.
The Group has a 75% shareholding in RPV2L.
In August 2012 the Company completed an incremental acquisition in Catalyst Healthcare Romford Holdings Limited Romford Hospital taking its shareholding to 66.7% the total consideration of 10.4 million also included an incremental acquisition in Pinnacle Schools Holdings Fife Limited Fife Schools which completed in January 2013 taking its shareholding to 50% as well as two incremental acquisitions of 10% of the equity and loanstock in two subsidiaries, Exeter Crown Court and Stoke Mandeville Hospital, taking their shareholding to 100%.
In September 2012 the Company completed an incremental acquisition in Ealing Care Alliance Holdings Limited Ealing Care Homes for a consideration of 1.2 million taking its shareholding to 84%.
In October 2012 the Group completed an acquisition of 30% equity and 45% loanstock of two PFI projects held through Prime LIFT Investments Limited Bas LIFTCo and Prima LIFTCo and an incremental acquisition of 9% equity and loanstock in Citylink Telecommunications Holdings Limited Connect PFI for an aggregate consideration of 33.8 million.
In October 2012 the Group completed an acquisition of 30% equity and loanstock in Emblem Schools Holdings Limited Fife Schools 2 PPP for a consideration of 3.9 million.
In November 2012 the Group sold its 50% equity and loan note interest in Doncaster Schools PFI for a consideration of 5.3 million.
In December 2012 the Company completed an acquisition of 37.5% in HDM Schools Solutions Holdings Limited West Lothian Schools through RPV2L and in March 2013 the Group completed an incremental acquisition of 37.5%.
The aggregate consideration was 11.9 million.
In January 2013 the Group completed an acquisition of 50% equity and loanstock in Eastbury Park Holdings Limited Northwood MOD for a consideration of 30.6 million.
The Directors have analysed the shareholder rights of these projects and are of the opinion that they should be treated as investments in joint ventures in accordance with IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures.
Acquisition of Other Investments continued Year ended 31 March 2012 In May 2011 the Group through RPV2L completed the acquisition of equity investments in three UK PFI schools for 17.2 million.
The three projects acquired by RPV2L were: a 100% interest in the Norwich Area Schools PFI Project: a 100% interest in the Oldham Secondary Schools PFI Project: and a 50% interest in the Sheffield Schools PFI Project.
In May 2011 the Group completed the acquisition of a 75.0% equity investment in Brentwood Community Hospital for 4.6 million through RPV2L.
In June 2011 the Group completed the acquisition of an indirect 50.0% equity investment in Pontefract and Pinderfields Hospitals and a further small equity interest in the Medium Support Helicopter Aircrew Training Facility for 28.8 million in aggregate.
In November 2011 the Group completed the acquisition of 75.0% of the equity and loan note interests in Sheffield Hospital for 5.2 million through RPV2L.
In February 2012 the Group acquired a further 33.5% of the equity and loan note interests in Dorset Fire and Rescue for 3.8 million.
Finance Receivables at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 million million Opening balance 1,770.6 779.1 Acquisition of subsidiaries 680.9 908.8 Gain on valuation 54.5 107.2 Repayments in the year 31.6 25.3 Other movements 0.8 0.8 Carrying amount at year end 2,475.2 1,770.6 This is represented by: Less than one year 40.2 31.2 Greater than one year 2,435.0 1,739.4 Carrying amount at year end 2,475.2 1,770.6 The Operating Subsidiaries concession contracts with public sector bodies are considered as financial assets.
Gain in fair values of financial assets of 54.5 million for the year ended 31 March 2013 2012: 107.2 million gain, are separately disclosed in the consolidated income statement as a capital amount.
See Note 3 ii for the methods and assumptions used in determining the fair values.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the financial assets in the balance sheet.
Interest income in relation to finance receivables of 94.5 million has been recognised in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 March 2013 as a revenue amount 2012: 70.6 million.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 93 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2013 18.
Trade and Other Receivables 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 million million Trade receivables 13.7 14.8 Other debtors 1.8 2.1 Prepayments and accrued income 11.1 12.3 26.6 29.2 19.
Cash and Cash Equivalents 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 million million Bank balances 115.7 56.3 Call deposits 210.9 317.4 Cash and cash equivalents 326.6 373.7 The effective interest rate on call deposits was between 0.1% and 1.4% 2012: between 0.1% and 2.4%.
The deposits have an intended maturity of between 1 and 361 days 2011: between 1 and 367 days but are liquid if necessary.
Trade and Other Payables 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 million million Trade payables 24.9 11.8 Accruals 29.7 28.6 Other payables 6.7 7.7 61.3 48.1 21.
Loans and Borrowings 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 million million Non-current liabilities Libor borrowings 991.1 755.2 Subordinated debt 25.7 24.3 RPI-linked borrowings 605.6 529.0 Fixed rate borrowings 249.0 101.4 1,871.4 1,409.9 Current liabilities Libor borrowings 56.9 168.6 Subordinated debt 0.4 RPI-linked borrowings 22.0 21.4 Fixed rate borrowings 0.6 1.0 79.5 191.4 Total loans and borrowings 1,950.9 1,601.3 94 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 21.
Loans and Borrowings continued Terms and debt repayment schedule The terms and conditions of outstanding loans are as follows: Weighted average effective Average year interest rate of maturity Carrying amount 2013 2012 million million Secured libor borrowings Operating Subsidiaries 5.6% 2031 1,021.1 785.3 Secured libor borrowings Investment Group 2.7% 2015 26.9 138.5 Subordinated debt 12.9% 2025 25.7 24.7 RPI-linked borrowings 3.0% 2036 627.6 550.4 Fixed rate borrowings 5.2% 2033 249.6 102.4 1,950.9 1,601.3 The interest rate for secured libor borrowings varies with changes in libor.
This debt is hedged using fixed to floating interest rate swaps.
The interest rate on RPI-linked borrowings varies with inflation whereas fixed rate borrowings have fixed interest coupons.
RPI-linked and fixed rate borrowings include bonds which are guaranteed by FSA UK Limited and Ambac Assurance UK Limited and are secured by a fixed and floating charge over the assets of the respective subsidiary companies.
The index-linked borrowings are indexed annually and semi-annually using published RPI figures.
The index ratio uses a base index figure ranging from 173.3 to 178.2 and a numerator index figure that is published by the Office for National Statistics.
The fair value of all borrowings is deemed to reflect their carrying value, except fixed rate and RPI-linked borrowings.
An analysis of fair values and carrying values of these borrowings is detailed below: 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value million million million million RPI-linked borrowings 627.6 1,056.7 550.4 646.1 Fixed rate borrowings 249.6 274.4 102.4 112.9 877.2 1,331.1 652.8 759.0 The fair values of fixed rate and RPI-linked borrowings are based on inputs that are observable, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
The currency profile of the Consolidated Groups loans and borrowings is as follows: 2013 2012 million million Pound Sterling 1,944.2 1,494.6 Euro 6.7 79.1 Canadian Dollar 27.6 1,950.9 1,601.3 The exchange rate used as at 31 March 2013 to convert the Euro loan was 0.84 and 0.65 for the Canadian Dollar loan.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 95 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2013 21.
Loans and Borrowings continued The Consolidated Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities at 31 March: 2013 2012 Floating rate million million Secured expiring within one year 59.3 58.7 expiring between 1 and 2 years 50.0 expiring between 2 and 5 years 100.0 expiring after 5 years 43.2 16.7 102.5 225.4 The Operating Subsidiaries are required to meet certain bank covenants on its debt, the most significant of which are maintaining debt service cover ratios annual cash flows available for debt service as a ratio of debt servicing amounts above 1.05 and Loan Life Cover Ratio above 1.05.
There were no material events of non-compliance in the Operating Subsidiaries in the year.
The Group was also required to meet certain bank covenants on its 100 million three year revolving bank facility, the most significant of which were maintaining a Forward and Historic Interest Cover Ratio above 3:1 and Gearing Ratio not greater than 0.275:1.
Other Financial Liabilities Fair Value of Derivatives 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 million million Non-current liabilities Interest rate swaps 339.9 206.9 Inflation swap 112.3 53.0 452.2 259.9 Financial liabilities have been fair valued in accordance with Note 2 d. The loss in fair value of interest and inflation rate swaps of 68.1 million for the year ended 31 March 2013 2012: 64.8 million loss is disclosed within finance costs in the consolidated income statement as a capital amount see Note 9.
In order to manage exposure to movements in interest rates, project companies financed by floating rate debt swap their floating rate exposure for fixed rates using interest rate swaps.
The notional amount of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 31 March 2013 was 1,120.8 million 2012: 794.4 million.
The notional amount of the outstanding inflation rate swap contracts at 31 March 2013 was 16.5 million 2012: 11.8 million.
Share Capital and Reserves Ordinary shares C Shares 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 million million million million Issued at 1 April 665.4 595.1 250.0 C Shares converted to Ordinary Shares 218.1 250.0 Issued for cash 228.3 65.9 250.0 Issued as a scrip dividend alternative 4.5 4.4 Issued at 31 March fully paid 1,116.3 665.4 250.0 The holders of the 1,116,360,139 Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company 2012: 665,422,215.
Share Capital and Reserves continued Ordinary Share capital and share premium 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 million million Opening balance 470.9 390.7 Premium arising on issue of equity shares 525.0 80.9 Expenses of issue of equity shares 3.4 0.7 Balance at 31 March 992.5 470.9 Share capital is 111.6 thousand 2012: 66.5 thousand.
C Share capital and share premium 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 million million Opening balance 246.8 Converted to Ordinary Shares 246.8 Premium arising on issue of C Shares 250.0 Expenses of issue of C Shares 3.2 Balance at 31 March 246.8 C Share capital is Nil 31 March 2012: 25.0 thousand.
For the year ended 31 March 2013 250,000,000 C Shares were converted to 218,050,000 Ordinary Shares on 27 April 2012 at a conversion rate of 0.8722 Ordinary Shares for each C Share.
On 30 June 2012 1.5 million new Ordinary Shares of 0.01p each fully paid in the Company were issued as a scrip dividend alternative in lieu of cash for the second interim dividend in respect of the year ending 31 March 2012.
On 31 December 2012 3.0 million new Ordinary Shares of 0.01p each fully paid in the Company were issued as a scrip dividend alternative in lieu of cash for the interim dividend in respect of the year ending 31 March 2013.
In the year ending 31 March 2013 88.3 million new Ordinary Shares were issued to various institutional investors at an issue price per share before expenses ranging between 119.0p and 119.5p.
On 22 March 2013, the Company announced the results of its Placing, Open Offer and Offer for Subscription of Ordinary Shares.
The Company raised 167.3 million before expenses through the issue of 140,000,000 Ordinary Shares at a price of 119.5p per Ordinary Share, of which 61,968,542 Ordinary Shares were issued pursuant to the Open Offer, 9,558,673 Ordinary Shares were issued pursuant to the Offer for Subscription and 68,472,785 Ordinary Shares were issued by way of the Placing.
The Ordinary Shares were admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange on 27 March 2013.
For the year ended 31 March 2012 On 30 June 2011 1.9 million new Ordinary Shares of 0.01p each fully paid in the Company were issued as a scrip dividend alternative in lieu of cash for the second interim dividend in respect of the year ending 31 March 2011.
On 31 December 2011 2.5 million new Ordinary Shares of 0.01p each fully paid in the Company were issued as a scrip dividend alternative in lieu of cash for the interim dividend in respect of the year ending 31 March 2012.
In the year ending 31 March 2012 65.9 million new Ordinary Shares were issued to various institutional investors at an issue price per share before expenses ranging between 115.0p and 117.0p.
On 28 March 2012, the Company announced the results of its Placing, Open Offer and Offer for Subscription of C Shares.
The Company raised 250.0 million before expenses through the issue of 250,000,000 C Shares at a price of 1.00 per C Share, of which 82,685,943 C Shares were issued pursuant to the Open Offer, 10,029,500 C Shares were issued pursuant to the Offer for Subscription and 157,284,557 C Shares were issued by way of the Placing.
The C Shares were admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange on 30 March 2012.
Retained reserves Retained reserves comprise retained earnings and the balance of the share premium account, as detailed in the consolidated statements of changes in shareholders equity.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 97 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2013 24.
Related Party Transactions The Investment Adviser to the Company and the Operator of a limited partnership through which the group holds its investments is InfraRed Capital Partners Limited IRCP.
IRCPs appointment as Investment Adviser is governed by an Investment Advisory Agreement which may be terminated by either party giving one years written notice.
The appointment may also be terminated if IRCPs appointment as Operator is terminated.
The Investment Adviser is entitled to a fee of 0.1 million per annum disclosed within investment fees in Note 8 2012: 0.1 million, payable half-yearly in arrears and which is subject to review, from time to time, by the Company.
IRCP has been appointed as the Operator of Infrastructure Investments Limited Partnership by the General Partner of the Partnership, Infrastructure Investments General Partner Limited, a sister subsidiary of IRCP.
The Operator and the General Partner may each terminate the appointment of the Operator by either party giving one years written notice.
Either the Operator or the General Partner may terminate the appointment of the Operator by written notice if the Investment Advisory Agreement is terminated in accordance with its terms.
The General Partners appointment does not have a fixed term, however if IRCP ceases to be the Operator, the Company has the option to buy the entire share capital of the General Partner and IRCP Group has the option to sell the entire share capital of the General Partner to the Company, in both cases for nominal consideration.
The Directors consider the value of the option to be insignificant.
In aggregate IRCP and the General Partner are entitled to fees and or profit share equal to: i 1.1 per cent per annum of the adjusted gross asset value of all investments of the group that are not in either their construction or ramp-up phases up to 750 million, 1.0 per cent per annum for the incremental value in excess of 750 million up to 1,500 million and 0.9 per cent for the incremental value in excess of 1,500 million: ii 1.5 per cent per annum of investments of the group that are in either their construction or ramp-up phases, excluding investments acquired with the acquisition of the initial portfolio the ramp-up phase of an investment means the period following completion of a projects construction phase during which it is building up to be fully operational with full service provision : and iii 1.0 per cent of the value of new portfolio investments, that are not sourced from entities, funds or holdings managed by the IRCP Group.
The total Operator fees charged to the Consolidated Income Statement was 11.2 million 2012: 8.6 million of which 5.9 million remained payable at year end 2012: 4.6 million.
The total charge for new portfolio investments disclosed within investment fees in Note 8 was 1.7 million 2012: 2.4 million of which 1.0 million remained payable at year end 2012: 1.7 million.
Transactions during the year The following summarises the transactions between the Consolidated Group and its associates in the year: Transactions Balance Year ended Year ended 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 million million million million Loanstock investments 61.3 120.5 243.2 285.4 Loanstock repayments 7.9 5.5 Equity investments 117.4 100.5 190.2 189.8 Equity repayments 4.1 2.3 Loanstock interest 31.7 21.2 19.6 Dividends received 9.9 6.7 Fees and other income 6.6 1.4 0.6 The Directors of the Company received fees for their services.
Further details are provided in the Report of the Directors on page 43.
Total fees for Directors for the year were 190,000 2012: 161,500.
Directors expenses of 7,632 2012: 7,646 were also paid in the year.
One Director also receives fees of 5,000 2012: 5,000 for serving as director of the two Luxembourg subsidiaries.
All of the above transactions were undertaken on an arms length basis.
Guarantees and Other Commitments As at 31 March 2013 the Consolidated Group had 12.7 million commitments for future project investments 2012: Nil and 26.2 million in capital commitments 2012: 11.8 million.
Events after Balance Sheet Date On 26 April 2013 the Group completed an acquisition of 50% equity and loanstock in Consort Healthcare Tameside Holdings Limited Tameside Hospital for a consideration of 16.0 million.
On 29 April 2013 the Group completed an acquisition of 60% equity and 60% loanstock of two PFI projects Medway LIFTCo and Waltham Forest LIFTCo for a consideration of 9.8 million.
On 3 May 2013 the Group completed an acquisition of 33.3% equity and loanstock in Addiewell Prison Holdings Limited Addiewell Prison for a consideration of 10.3 million.
On 22 April 2013 3.9 million new Ordinary Shares of 0.01p each fully paid in the Company were issued as a scrip dividend alternative in lieu of cash for the second interim dividend in respect of the year ending 31 March 2013.
On 1 May 2013, the Board appointed two new additional directors to the Board, Mr Ian Russell, CBE, and Mrs Susie Farnon.
There are no other events after the balance sheet date which are required to be disclosed.
Disclosure Service Concession Arrangements The group holds investments in 79 service concession arrangements in the Accommodation, Education, Health, Transport and Law and Order sectors.
The concessions vary on the required obligations but typically require the financing and operation of an asset during the concession period.
As at 31 March 2013, all of the service concessions were fully operational.
The rights of both the concession provider and concession operator are stated within the specific project agreement.
The standard rights of the provider to terminate the project include poor performance and in the event of force majeure.
The operators rights to terminate include the failure of the provider to make payment under the agreement, a material breach of contract and relevant changes of law which would render it impossible for the service company to fulfil its requirements.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 99 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2013 27.
Disclosure Service Concession Arrangements continued Project Short description of Number Project Key concession arrangements Start date End date of years Capex subcontractors A249 Design, construct, finance, operate and 2006 2036 30 79m Carillion maintain the section from Lwade Bypass to Queensborough of the A249 road for the Secretary of State for Transport.
A92 Design, construct, finance and operate the 2005 2035 30 54m Bear upgraded A92 shadow toll road between Dundee and Arbroath for Transport for Scotland.
Barking & Design, construct, finance, operate and 2004 2030 26 47m Bouygues Energies Dagenham maintain the Eastbury Comprehensive and & Services Schools Jo Richardson Community Schools for London Borough of Barking & Dagenham.
Barnet Hospital Design, construct, operate and maintain 1999 2032 33 65m Bouygues the re-building of Barnet General Hospital Siemens in North London for the Wellhouse Medirest National Health Service Trust.
Bishop Auckland Design, construct, finance, service and 1999 2059 60 with 66mISS Hospital maintain a redevelopment of Bishop break Auckland General Hospital, County Durham clause for South Durham Health Care NHS Trust.
option by Grantor at Year 30, 40 & 50 Birmingham and Design, construct and invest in facilities of 2004 2031 27 65m Carillion Solihull LIFT new health and social care facilities.
Integral Birmingham Design, construct, finance and maintain a new 2006 2046 40 553m Balfour Beatty Hospital acute hospital and six mental health facilities Engineering Services for University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust and Solihull Mental Health NHS Foundation Trust.
Blackburn Design, construct, finance and maintain new 2003 2041 38 100m Balfour Beatty Hospital facilities at the Queens Park Hospital in Blackburn Engineering Services for the East Lancashire Hospitals NHS Trust.
Siemens Blackpool Design, construct, finance and operate a 2008 2040 31.5 19m Eric Wright Primary Care primary care centre in Blackpool for Blackpool Primary care Trust Boldon School Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain 2005 2031 26 18m Mitie Boldon School for the Borough of South Tyneside.
Bradford Schools Design, construct, finance and maintain four 2009 2036 27 230m Amey secondary schools for Bradford Metropolitan District Council.
Brentwood Design, construct, finance and maintain a 2006 2036 30 23m Integral Community new community hospital for South West Essex Initial Hospital Primary Care Trust.
Central Middlesex Design, construct, finance and maintain new 2003 2036 33 75m Bouygues Energies Hospital hospital facilities, and to refurbish some & Services existing facilities, for the Brent Emergency Care and Diagnostic Centre on the Central Middlesex Hospital site in North West London.
Disclosure Service Concession Arrangements continued Project Short description of Number Project Key concession arrangements Start date End date of years Capex subcontractors Colchester Design, construct, finance and maintain a 2004 2039 35 550m Sodexo Garrison new garrison facility at Colchester, Essex for The Secretary of State for Defence.
Connect PFI To upgrade London Underground Limiteds 1999 2019 20 300m Thales existing radio and telecommunications systems and implement and operate a new system.
Conwy Schools Design, build, operate and maintain three 2003 2030 27 40m Sodexo schools for Conwy County Borough Council in North Wales.
Cork School Design, construct, finance and operate a 2005 2030 25 50m Bilfinger Berger of Music new school of music in Cork to accommodate 130 academic staff, 400 full time and 2,000 part-time students for the Minister of Education and Science Republic of Ireland.
Croydon Schools Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain 2004 2034 30 20m Vinci a secondary school and community library in Croydon for the London Borough of Croydon.
Darlington Schools Darlington Schools is a four-school education 2004 2029 25 31m Mitie PFI project consisting of an Education Village which brought together three existing schools and one primary school.
Defence 6th Form Design, build, operate, finance and maintain 2003 2033 30 40m Pearson College a new residential sixth form college for the Interserve Secretary of State for Defence.
Derby Schools Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain 2004 2031 27 37m Vinci three primary schools and two secondary schools in Derby for Derby City Council.
Doncaster Mental Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain 2003 2031 28 15m Royal BAM Health Hospital a service accommodation for an elderly mental health unit in Doncaster for the Rotherham Doncaster and South Humber Mental NHS Foundation Trust.
Dorset Fire Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain 2007 2034 27 45m Cofely & Rescue the fire and police facilities at three sites in Dorset for the Dorset Fire Authority & the Police and Crime Commissioner for Dorset formerly the Dorset Police Authority.
Dorset Police Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain 2002 2033 31 15m Sodexo a new divisional headquarters and section stations at Bridport and East Weymouth for the Police and Crime Commissioner for Dorset formerly the Dorset Police Authority.
Durham and Construction of a state of the art firearms and 2000 2025 25 6m John Laing Cleveland Police tactical training centre at Urlay Nook in the Tactical Training North of England.
Centre Dutch High Design, construct, finance, operate and 2001 2026 25 625m Siemens Speed Rail maintain power, track and signalling for the Royal BAM high speed railway between Schiphol Airport Fluor and Belgian border in the Netherlands.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 101 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2013 27.
Disclosure Service Concession Arrangements continued Project Short description of Number Project Key concession arrangements Start date End date of years Capex subcontractors Ealing Care Homes Design, construct, finance, operate and 2005 2035 30 22m Viridian maintain four care homes for the elderly in the London Borough of Ealing for the London Borough of Ealing.
Ealing Schools Ealing Schools is a four-school education 2002 2029 27 31m Mitie PFI project consisting of one secondary school and three primary schools in the London Borough of Ealing.
Edinburgh Schools Design, construct, finance and operate six 2007 2039 32 165m Mitie secondary schools and two primary schools for the City of Edinburgh Council.
Exeter Crown Build and service a new crown and county 2002 2034 32 20m Sodexo Court court building in Exeter.
Fife Schools The facility involved the construction of 3 new 2001 2028 27 40m Sodexo schools and a sports hall.
Fife 2 Schools Design, construct, finance and maintain nine 2005 2032 27 63.5m FES FM Ltd primary schools and one special education facility in the Fife are of Scotland.
Glasgow Hospital Design, construct, finance, operate and 2006 2036 30 178m Balfour Beatty maintain two new ambulatory care and Engineering Services diagnostic hospitals in Glasgow for the Greater Glasgow and Clyde Health Board.
Greater Construction of 17 police stations on 16 2002 2031 29 82m John Laing Manchester around Greater Manchester.
Police Stations Haverstock School Haverstock is a single school education 2004 2030 26 21m Mitie PFI project consisting of a new secondary school on an existing school site on Haverstock Hill, Camden.
Health & Safety HSE Merseyside HQ is an accommodation PFI 2005 2035 30 62m Honeywell Merseyside HQ project.
It is a four-storey office building that Reliance serves as the HSE s operational headquarters and houses 1,500 employees.
Health & Safety Building of new workshops and offices in Buxton 2002 2034 32 60m Interserve Laboratory and the disposal of old facilities at Sheffield.
Helicopter Design, construction, management, operation 1997 2037 40 with 100mSerco Training Facility and financing of STET simulators based training break Selex facility for RAF helicopter pilots.
clause by Grantor at Year 20 Highland Schools Design, construction and operate eleven 2007 2037 30 143m Mears urban and rural schools.
Home Office HQ Build, finance, operate and maintain a new 2002 2031 29 200m Bouygues Energies headquarters building to replace the Home & Services Offices existing London office accommodation with purpose-built serviced offices.
Disclosure Service Concession Arrangements continued Project Short description of Number Project Key concession arrangements Start date End date of years Capex subcontractors Irish Grouped Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain 2001 2026 25 34m Bilfinger Berger Schools five secondary schools in the Republic of Ireland for the Department of Education and Skills.
Kicking Horse Upgrade, operate and maintain a section of 2005 2027 22 CAD$ HMC Services Canyon highway in British Columbia.
127m Kent Schools Design, build, funding and partial operation of 2005 2035 30 95m Mitie six schools in Kent under the UK Governments PFI programme.
Lewisham Hospital Design, construct, finance, operate and 2004 2036 32 58m Carillion maintain a new wing in Lewisham Hospital for the Department of Health.
M80 Motorway Design, build, finance and operate a section 2009 2039 30 275m Bear of the M80 motorway in Scotland.
Manchester Design, construct, finance, operate and 2005 2031 26 29m Hochtief School maintain the Wright Robinson College in Manchester for Manchester City Council.
Medway Police Design, construct, finance, operate and 2004 2034 30 21m Vinci maintain a divisional police headquarters for the Police and Crime Commissioner for Kent formerly the Kent Police Authority.
Metropolitan Construction of a firearms and public order 2001 2026 25 40m John Laing Specialist training facility in Gravesend, Kent for the Training Centre Mayors Office for Policing and Crime formerly the Metropolitan Police Authority.
Newcastle Finance, develop, construct and operate a new 2007 2032 25 30m Integral Libraries city centre library in Newcastle and an additional satellite library in High Heaton, both in the North East of the UK.
Newport Schools Design, construct, finance, operate and 2008 2033 25 15m Vinci maintain a nursery, infant and junior school for Newport City Council.
Newton Abbot Design, construct, finance, operate and 2007 2039 32 20m Rydon Hospital maintain a community hospital for Devon Primary Care Trust.
North Tyneside North Tyneside Schools is a four-school education 2002 2033 31 30m Mitie Schools PFI project consisting of one secondary school Burnside and three primary schools Western, Marine, Coquet in North Tyneside.
North West Financing, building, maintaining and 2008 2041 33 CAD$ Hochtief Anthony Henday rehabilitating the northwest leg of the 995m Vinci Anthony Henday Drive ring road in the City of Edmonton, Alberta.
Northwood Design, construct and commission new-built 2006 2031 25 198m Carillion MoD HQ Project facilities on behalf of the Ministry of Defence in Northwood, Greater London H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 103 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2013 27.
Disclosure Service Concession Arrangements continued Project Short description of Number Project Key concession arrangements Start date End date of years Capex subcontractors Norwich Schools Design, construct, finance and operate five 2006 2032 26 44m Kier primary schools and one secondary school: all new build with the exception of a small element of retained estate at the secondary school for the Norwich City Council.
Oldham Library Design, construct, finance, operate and 2004 2029 25 15m Kier maintain the Oldham Library and Lifelong Learning Centre for Oldham Metropolitan Borough Council.
Oldham Schools Design, construct, finance and operate two 2006 2033 27 54m Kier secondary schools for Oldham Metropolitan Borough Council.
Oxford Churchill Design, construct, finance, operate and 2005 2038 33 124mG4S Oncology maintain a 100 bed oncology unit, including Impregilo provision of medical equipment for Oxford Radcliffe Hospitals NHS Trust.
Oxford John Design, construction, management, financing, 2003 2036 33 161m Carillion Radcliffe Hospital operation and maintenance of a new wing adjacent to the former Radcliffe Infirmary.
Oxford Nuffield Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain 2002 2036 34 37mG4S Hospital a new orthopaedic hospital for the Secretary of State for Health.
Perth and Kinross Design, construct, financing and operation 2007 2041 34 136m Mitie Schools of four secondary schools and five primary schools for the Perth and Kinross Council.
Pinderfields & Design, construction, management, financing 2007 2042 35 311m Balfour Beatty Pontefract and operate a new 708 bed acute hospital in Engineering Services Hospitals Pinderfield, West Yorks and a new diagnostic and treatment hospital in Pontefract, West Yorks for the Mid Yorkshire NHS Trust.
Queen Alexandra Design and construction of a new hospital 2005 2040 35 255m Carillion Hospital and retained estates work in Portsmouth.
Renfrewshire Design, construction, management, financing, 2008 2038 30 100m Amey Schools operation and maintenance of six primary and four secondary schools in Renfrewshire, Scotland.
Rhondda Schools Design, construction, management, financing 2004 2028 24 22m Vinci and operate a primary school, secondary school, a day nursery and an adult learning centre in South Wales for Rhondda Cynon Taf Authority.
Romford Hospital Design, construction, management, financing, 2004 2040 36 211m Sodexo operation and maintenance of a new hospital Bovis Lend Lease in Romford.
Siemens Sheffield Hospital Design, construction, financing and management 2004 2036 32 26m Dalkia of a new 168 bed wing at the Sheffield Northern General Hospital for the Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
Disclosure Service Concession Arrangements continued Project Short description of Number Project Key concession arrangements Start date End date of years Capex subcontractors Sheffield Schools Design, construct, finance and operate two 2004 2030 26 52m Kier primary schools and two secondary schools for Sheffield City Council.
South Ayrshire Design, construct, finance and operate of 2006 2039 33 76m Mitie Schools three primary schools, two secondary academy schools and a new performing arts annex at an existing academy for South Ayrshire Schools.
South East Construction of 4 police stations in South East 2001 2026 25 80m John Laing London Police London for the Mayors Office for Policing and Stations Crime formerly the Metropolitan Police Authority.
Staffordshire LIFT Design, construct, and invest in facilities 2005 2030- 25-32 40m Integral 2037 Stoke Mandeville Design, finance, construct, refurbish, 2004 2034 30 40m Sodexo Hospital operate and maintain a new hospital facility for the Buckingham Hospitals NHS Trust.
Sussex Custodial Build and service three custody centres in 2001 2031 30 20m Capita Centre Sussex for the Police and Crime Commissioner for Sussex formerly the Sussex Police Authority.
The centres are at Worthing, Chichester and Brighton.
A fourth centre at Eastbourne was subsequently contracted for as a variation.
Swindon Police Design, construction, management, financing 2005 2037 32 18m Vinci and operate a new divisional headquarters for the Police and Crime Commissioner for Wiltshire and Swindon formerly the Wiltshire Police Authority.
Tyne & Wear Design, construct, manage, finance 2006 2031 25 23m John Laing Fire Stations and operate seven fire station facilities and a headquarters building in Tyne and Wear for the Tyne and Wear Fire and Civil Defence Authority.
West Lothian Design, construct, finance and operate 2008 2040 32 60m Dawn Construction Schools two new schools, Armadale Academy and the Deans Community High School for West Lothian Council.
West Middlesex Design, construct, finance, operate and 2001 2036 35 60m Bouygues Energies Hospital maintain a new 228 bed hospital for West & Services Middlesex University Hospital NHS Trust.
Willesden Hospital Design, construct, manage and finance a 2002 2034 32 19m Accuro community hospital in north London for NHS Brent.
Wooldale Centre Wooldale Centre for Learning is an education PFI 2004 2029 25 24m Mitie for Learning project consisting of a Centre for Learning CfL comprising a secondary school with sixth form, public library, primary school and nursery on a large site in Northamptonshire.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 105 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2013 28.
Principal Subsidiaries Ownership Name Country interest HICL Infrastructure 1 SARL Luxembourg 100.0% HICL Infrastructure 2 SARL Luxembourg 100.0% Infrastructure Investments Limited Partnership United Kingdom 100.0% Infrastructure Investments Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100.0% AGP 2 Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Alpha Schools Highland Plc United Kingdom 100.0% Consort Healthcare Blackburn Funding Plc United Kingdom 100.0% Operating Subsidiaries 2003 Schools Services Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Ashburton Services Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Annes Gate Property Plc United Kingdom 100.0% Alpha Schools Highland Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Axiom Education Edinburgh Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Axiom Education Perth & Kinross Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Boldon School Limited United Kingdom 100.0% ByCentral Limited United Kingdom 100.0% ByWest Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Consort Healthcare Blackburn Limited United Kingdom 100.0% CVS Leasing Limited United Kingdom 87.6% PFF Dorset Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Education 4 Ayrshire Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Enterprise Civic Buildings Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Enterprise Education Conwy Limited United Kingdom 90.0% Enterprise Healthcare Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Metier Healthcare Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Ravensbourne Health Services Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Services Support Cleveland Limited United Kingdom 72.9% Services Support Gravesend Limited United Kingdom 72.9% Services Support Manchester Limited United Kingdom 72.9% Sussex Custodial Services Limited United Kingdom 100.0% THC OJR Limited United Kingdom 100.0% THC QAH Limited United Kingdom 100.0% TW Accommodation Services Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Reporting date 31 December Reporting date 31 January All the consolidated revenues and the material net assets of the subsidiaries above are derived from the United Kingdom.
