Analysis of the Groups Portfolio continued Ten Largest Investments Set out below are details of the ten largest investments in the portfolio and details of each project.
As at 31 March 2013, the largest investment the Home Office project accounted for less than 8% 2012: 10% of the portfolio.
Directors Valuation 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 PROJECT Valuation as a Valuation as a percentage of percentage of Directors portfolio Directors portfolio valuation valuation million million Directors Valuation m 1,213.1 902.0 Birmingham Hospitals 3.3%n a Colchester Garrison 4.2% 5.0% Connect 4.6%n a Dutch High Speed Rail Link 6.7% 8.8% Edinburgh Schools 3.1%n a Home Office 7.6% 10.0% Highland Schools 3.5%n a M80 Motorway DBFO 2.9% 3.3% Oxford John Radcliffe Hospital 3.1% 3.2% Queen Alexandra Hospital 5.5% 7.2% Total ten largest investments 44.5% 49.8% Birmingham Hospitals The new configuration enabled approximately 84 hectares of surplus land to be released for development and this has been successfully The Birmingham Hospital project is a 40 year concession to design, sold by the project company, RMPA Services plc, to Taylor Woodrow construct, finance and maintain a new acute hospital and six new Developments Limited.
The proceeds from the land sale were used to mental health facilities in Birmingham for the University Hospitals fund parts of the project.
Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust and the Birmingham and Solihull Mental Health NHS Foundation Trust respectively.
Catering, cleaning and transport services are provided by Sodexo Defence Services Limited.
Sodexo Property Solutions Limited The new acute hospital and mental health facilities were built by a formerly known as WS Atkins Facilities Management Limited is joint-venture between Balfour Beatty Construction Limited and responsible for estate and grounds maintenance, contract Haden Young since rebranded as Balfour Beatty Engineering management and security, waste management and lifecycle.
Services Limited under a 553 million fixed-price construction contract.
The new buildings have been built in phases over 5 years.
Strong partnership working relationships continue with the Barracks The mental health facilities were handed over in 2008 and provide for remaining at peak capacity.
Operations continue in a steady state 235 beds across 6 new psychiatric facilities.
with minimal deductions and good customer satisfaction.
The acute hospital was substantially completed and handed over in RMPA continue to work with the MOD and the Defence Infrastructure September 2011, with the remaining works finished in August 2012.
Organisation to identify operational savings including energy The hospital provides for 1,213 inpatient beds and 30 operating efficiencies.
Balfour Beatty Workplace Limited is providing hard facilities management services to the project.
Connect CityLink Telecommunications Limited CityLink, the project Colchester Garrison company, has a 20 year concession which runs until November The Colchester Garrison project is a 35 year concession to design, 2019 to upgrade London Underground Limiteds existing radio construct, finance and maintain a new garrison facility at Colchester, and telecommunications systems and implement and operate a Essex for The Secretary of State for Defence the MOD.
garrison has been built partly on an existing garrison site and partly on an adjacent brownfield site owned by the MOD.
The project Fluor Enterprises was subcontracted to provide the engineering, involved capital expenditure of approximately 550 million.
Financial procurement, design and construction for installation of the new close was on 9 February 2004. transmission network and radio systems.
Thales Transport and Security Limited was subcontracted to operate the existing and new The completed garrison facility provides accommodation for systems for the life of the project under an operations and approximately 3,500 military and 750 civilian personnel.
was by Sir Robert McAlpine Limited and is now complete.
CityLink is managed by staff on secondment to the company from Thales.
34 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 Dutch High Speed Rail Link Home Office The project is a 25 year concession from the date the assets are The Home Office Headquarters project is a 29 year concession available for use with the State of the Netherlands, represented by commissioned by the Home Office to build finance operate and the Minister of Transport, Public Works and Water Management and maintain a new headquarters building to replace their existing the Minister of Finance and is the largest PPP contract ever awarded London office accommodation with purpose-built serviced offices.
More specifically the project involves the design, The new building occupies the site of the former Department of construction, financing, operation and maintenance of one of the Environment in Marsham Street in Westminster.
largest high speed railway projects in Europe.
The project involved capital expenditure of over 625 million on the construction of track, The project involved capital expenditure of approximately 200 noise attenuation, catenary, signalling, traction power distribution million and the demolition of the existing offices on a 4.3 acre site and  systems infrastructure.
and the construction of a Terry Farrell Partners-designed building Financial close was achieved on 31 October 2001. comprising three purpose built interconnecting office blocks totalling c. 75,000 square metres, for up to 3,450 staff.
Construction The project involved the design and construction of two new sections was carried out by Byhome Limited, a joint venture between of high speed rail track between Amsterdam and the Belgian border.
Bouygues UK Limited and its sister facilities management company Construction has been completed successfully.
An unrelated train Bouygues E&S FM UK Limited both subsidiaries of Bouygues operating company is responsible for rolling stock and its operation.
Construction S. A.. ETDE was rebranded to Bouygues E&S FM UK Train services commenced in September 2009.
Revenues are Limited in March 2013. receivable from the State of the Netherlands, varying with the level of performance but independent of the level of traffic.
The project was completed and has been occupied by the Home Office since January 2005.
The services being provided include The project is responsible for maintenance of the system and health and safety, cleaning, catering and energy management.
substructure and the undertaking of renewals works during the Operations are managed by Bouygues E&S FM UK Limited.
concession period, and availability is measured, inter alia, by reference to any delays to trains attributable to the project.
The The project is now into its eighth year of operations following the project has additional obligations in relation to safety management handover of the building in 2005.
The Home Office has over 3,000 and liaison with the State, the regulator, traffic allocator, traffic staff working in the building at present and they have benefited from controller, the owner of the existing and connecting infrastructure as a world-class working environment.
The building also continues to well as the substructure contracts.
receive some 10,000 visitors per month.
Maintenance obligations are carried out by a joint venture, IMBV, The Authority has confirmed that it is proposed that DCLG comprising Siemens Nederland By, Koninklijke BAM NBM NV and Department for Communities and Local Government will move into Fluor Infrastructure BV.
2 Marsham Street at the end of September 2014.
The Authority is currently developing plans for the re-organisation of 2 Marsham Availability has been at 100% for almost the entire period and only Street for the purpose of implementing DCLGs relocation to increase minor deductions have been incurred.
Further progress has been the number of staff working in the building to 5,000. achieved during the year closing out on residual issues between the parties and only a small number of issues remain.
IMBV has further AGP, the Authority and Bouygues E&S FM UK Limited continue to consolidated its managerial and operational structures, systems and hold regular meetings to review energy efficiency measures.
processes during the past year.
The Client introduced the new high speed train sets AnsaldoBreda V250s to the network in December Highland Schools 2012: however these were removed from service in January 2013 due The Highland Schools PFI project is a 30 year concession with the to poor reliability and performance.
As the infrastructure remains Highland Council to design, build and operate eleven urban and rural available for use by the existing trains and rolling stock, the Group is schools with a total capital value of 143 million.
The project not liable for poor performance in this regard.
comprises five primary schools, three secondary schools, a combined primary and secondary school, and a special needs Edinburgh Schools school.
This all-new build concession runs until 2037.
The Edinburgh Schools project is a 31.5 year concession for the design, construction, financing and operation of six secondary Morrison Construction Limited commenced the building phase in schools and two primary schools, along with routine and major 2006 on the 11 new schools and community facilities built through lifecycle maintenance for the life of the concession.
The client is the the Highland Councils second Public Private Partnership PPP City of Edinburgh Council.
Construction has been completed in stages and, with the exception of some outdoor sporting facilities, is now complete.
The construction of the project was carried out by Laing ORourke Limited and involved capital expenditure of approximately 165 Facilities management is the responsibility of Morrison Facilities million.
The schools were handed over in a phased completion Services Limited and the project is financed through long term fixedbetween November 2008 and January 2010. rate guaranteed senior secured bonds and a European Investment Bank loan.
The contractual payment mechanism is an availability Mitie PFI Limited undertakes the hard and soft facilities management payment based on availability of accommodation facilities and the services for the project under a long-term concession life agreement.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 35 Analysis of the Groups Portfolio continued M80 Motorway DBFO Queen Alexandra Hospital The M80 Motorway DBFO project is a 30-year concession to upgrade The completed hospital has 1,026 inpatient beds, 34 neonatal a 10 kilometre stretch of the existing M80, between Stepps and intensive care cots, 3 endoscopy suites and 20 main operating Haggs in Scotland, as well as to construct a new eight-kilometre theatres.
The concession contract runs until December 2040. section of motorway, seven new junctions and 60 additional structures.
The construction works were performed under a Bilfinger The client is Portsmouth Hospitals NHS Trust.
The new hospital Berger UK, Northstone NI Ltd and John Graham Dromore Ltd buildings were developed and built by Carillion Construction joint venture.
Limited, a subsidiary of Carillion plc.
The majority of the new facilities have been operational since June 2009.
Highway Management Scotland Limited HMS, the project company, is 50% indirectly owned by the Company.
The project A subsidiary of Carillion plc provides facilities management services achieved traffic availability in December 2011 and final completion of to the project under a long-term services agreement.
the new works has now been achieved as a result of the execution of the remaining works agreement on 7 December 2012.
This has Whilst facilities management project performance continues to be backdated final completion to 31 May 2012. generally satisfactory, service levels in the Estates Maintenance service are still being monitored closely and recommendations from HMS is paid an availability revenue stream by the Scottish Ministers.
an improvement plan commissioned by the project company are The motorway is being operated and maintained by BEAR Scotland being implemented.
Ltd under a long-term services agreement.
The on-line and off-line new sections of the M80 from Stepps to Haggs were opened on 26 August 2011, one month ahead of the planned date.
HMS is working with the local community on the possible development of a local nature reserve adjacent to the road.
Oxford John Radcliffe Hospital The Oxford John Radcliffe PFI Hospital project involves the design, construction, management, financing, operation and maintenance of a new wing adjacent to the former Radcliffe Infirmary in Oxford.
The concession runs until 31 December 2036.
The new wing was constructed by Carillion Construction Limited and reached operational completion in December 2006.
The new facilities built under the contract formed the West Wing and the New Childrens Hospital.
A number of adult and children services were relocated from the Radcliffe Infirmary and other sites within the Oxford Radcliffe Hospitals NHS Trust to centralise them into one facility.
Facilities management services are subcontracted to Carillion Services Limited.
During the year, issues with the previous reporting and payment of certain services were resolved and the Portering and the Estates Services performance levels have improved.
