Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors Report Disclosure of Information to and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law the Auditors and regulations.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 requires the Directors to no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she they have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys EU and applicable law.
auditors are aware of that information.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair Auditors view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of KPMG Channel Islands Limited have expressed their willingness the Company for that period.
to continue in office as auditors and a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: By order of the Board Select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: Authorised signatory Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Dexion Capital Guernsey Ltd Company Secretary State whether applicable accounting standards have been 21 May 2013 followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Registered Office: Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 1 Le Truchot unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will Guernsey continue in business.
St Peter Port Channel Islands GY1 1WD The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
They have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with company law and regulations.
Directors Responsibility Statement We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and Group included in the consolidation as a whole: and the Chairmans Statement and Report of the Directors include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and Group included in the consolidation taken as a whole together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
