Independent Auditors Report to the Members of HICL Infrastructure Company Limited We have audited the Group financial statements of HICL Infrastructure Opinion on Financial Statements Company Limited the Company, and together with its subsidiaries, In our opinion the financial statements: the Group for the year ended 31 March 2013 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders Equity, the 31 March 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
The are in accordance with International Financial Reporting financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Standards as adopted by the EU: and preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Standards as adopted by the EU.
Matters on Which we are Required to This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Report by Exception accordance with section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 requires us to report to you Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in if, in our opinion: an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone the Company has not kept proper accounting records, or other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records: or Respective Responsibilities of Directors we have not received all the information and explanations, which and Auditor to the best of our knowledge and belief are necessary for the As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities purpose of our audit.
set out on page 46, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards of this review.
APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the Audit of the Steven D. Stormonth Financial Statements For and on behalf of An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and KPMG Channel Islands Limited disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors assurance that the financial statements are free from material 20 New Street misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an St Peter Port assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Guernsey the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and GY14AN adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the 21 May 2013 financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
