A more detailed consolidated balance sheet is contained in the Financial Statements on page 419.
65 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Financial summary Consolidated balance sheet Movement in 2013 GB&M manages these activities.
Excluding this, there was a US$5.0bn increase driven by higher Total reported assets were US$2.7 trillion, 1% lower placements with financial institutions in Hong Kong than at 31 December 2012, on both a reported and and Rest of Asia-Pacific.
Our balance sheet remains strong, with a ratio of customer advances to Loans and advances to customers increased by customer accounts of 72.9%.
US$87.0bn or 9%, including a US$52.8bn rise in reverse repo balances reflecting the change in the During 2013, GB&M changed the way it way GB&M manages these activities, which mainly manages repo and reverse repo activities.
This led to affected balances in North America and the UK.
We an increase in 2013 in reverse repo agreements reclassified over US$9.5bn of customer lending classified as Loans and advances to customers and balances mainly relating to our operations in Panama Loans and advances to banks, and a decline in those and first lien mortgage portfolios in the US to included in Trading assets.
Similarly, there was an Assets held for sale.
These were subsequently increase in repo agreements classified in Deposits by disposed of in the second half of the year.
banks and Customer accounts, with a decline in Trading liabilities.
For further details of this change, Excluding these factors, customer lending see page 68. balances grew by US$44.0bn as continued demand for financing led to a rise in term and trade-related Loans and advances to customers grew by more lending to CMB and GB&M customers in Hong than US$34.2bn in 2013, notably in term and tradeKong and, to a lesser extent, in Rest of Asia-Pacific.
related lending to corporate and commercial Commercial real estate and other property-related customers.
Customer accounts increased by over lending also grew in Hong Kong and Rest of AsiaUS$56.3bn in 2013.
Residential mortgages remained broadly in reverse repo and repo transactions and the effect of line with 2012.
There was growth in Rest of Asiacurrency movements.
Pacific and, to a lesser extent, in Hong Kong, The following commentary is on a constant although the rate of growth in Hong Kong fell in currency basis.
the second half of the year.
We also continued to grow our portfolio in the UK, which reflected our Assets competitive offering.
These factors were broadly offset by the continued reduction in the US run-off Cash and balances at central banks increased by portfolio.
In addition, in the UK there was an 17%, mainly in Europe, driven by the placement of increase in corporate overdraft balances, mainly surplus funds reflecting growth in deposits in excess in GB&M that did not meet the criteria for netting, of lending growth and, to a lesser extent, in North with a corresponding rise in related customer America.
Trading assets decreased by US$110bn or 27%, Financial investments were broadly in line driven by a fall in reverse repos, reflecting the with 2012 levels.
We recorded net sales and change in the way GB&M manages these activities maturities of available-for-sale government debt noted above.
Excluding this, trading assets were securities in North America.
This was broadly offset broadly in line with December 2012 levels.
by an increase in Hong Kong due to net new Financial assets designated at fair value purchases, together with the re-classification of our increased by 16%, in part due to favourable market shareholding in Industrial Bank.
movements in our European insurance operations Assets held for sale decreased by 79%, driven coupled with higher investments from premium by the completion of the sales of our investment in income received during the year in our insurance Ping An and of the non-real estate personal lending businesses, notably in Europe and Hong Kong.
Upward movements in yield curves in major currencies led to Liabilities a decline in the fair value of interest rate contracts, Deposits by banks rose by US$21.4bn or 20% and largely in Europe.
In North America, declines in fair included an increase of US$30.5bn relating to values of interest rate contracts reflected the increase repo balances, reflecting the change in the way in swap rates during the year and increased netting.
Excluding this, Loans and advances to banks rose by balances fell in Europe and North America.
US$61.4bn or 41%, including a US$56.4bn increase in reverse repos reflecting the change in the way 66 Customer accounts increased by US$148.6bn these activities.
Excluding this, trading liabilities or 11%.
This included a rise in repo funding of increased by US$12.2bn driven by increases in US$92.3bn reflecting the change in the way GB&M Europe, reflecting client demand and volumes.
manages these activities, which mainly affected Financial liabilities designated at fair value balances in North America and the UK.
In addition, remained broadly unchanged during 2013. we reclassified over US$6.5bn of deposit balances, mainly relating to our operations in Panama, to The reduction in the value of Derivative Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale.
These liabilities was in line with that of Derivative assets were subsequently disposed of in the second half of as the underlying risk is broadly matched.
Debt securities in issue fell by 12%.
This was Excluding these factors, customer accounts driven by a net redemption in debt securities in issue increased by US$63.4bn, driven by a rise in the UK in Europe together with maturing debt that was not in RBWM reflecting customers continued replaced in the US as funding requirements declined preference for holding higher balances in readilydue to business disposals and the run-off of the CML accessible current and savings accounts in the portfolio.
These factors were partly offset by an uncertain economic environment.
This was coupled increase in Brazil as we substituted wholesale with higher balances in our Payments and Cash customer deposits for medium-term loan notes.
Management business in GB&M and CMB.
Current Liabilities under insurance contracts rose by accounts also grew in GB&M due to higher balances 9% as a result of liabilities to policyholders that did not meet the netting criteria and an increase established for new business, largely written in in short-term deposits.
In Hong Kong and Rest of Hong Kong.
Asia-Pacific, customer accounts rose, mainly in RBWM reflecting customer sentiment, but also in Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale CMB reflecting deposit campaigns in the final decreased by US$1.9bn, driven by the disposal of quarter of the year.
In North America, customer non-strategic businesses in Latin America and North accounts grew, driven by higher balances in our America.
CMB business although this was offset in part by a fall in RBWM, due to re-pricing.
Equity Trading liabilities decreased by US$102.1bn or Total shareholders equity rose by 4%, primarily 33% and included a fall of US$114.3bn in repos driven by profits generated in the year, partly offset reflecting the change in the way GB&M manages by dividends paid.
In 2013, GB&M changed the way it manages decline in the amount classified as Trading repo and reverse repo activities in the Credit and liabilities, compared with previous year-ends.
The Rates businesses, which were previously being increase in amortised cost balances and the decrease managed in a trading environment.
During the year, in trading balances primarily occurred in Europe and the repo and reverse repo business activities were North America, specifically the UK and the US.
organised into trading and non-trading portfolios, The impact of repos and reverse repos on the with separate risk management procedures.
This balance sheet is set out in the table below.
The table resulted in an increase in the amount of reverse repos also provides a combined view of customer lending classified as Loans and advances to customers and and customer deposits which, by taking into account Loans and advances to banks, and a decline in loans and advances to customers and customer the amount classified as Trading assets at account balances reported as held for sale, more 31 December 2013, compared with previous yearaccurately reflects the overall size of our lending ends.
Similarly, at 31 December 2013 there was an and deposit books.
Further information about the nature of securities information can be found in the following sections: investment conduits in which the above financial investments are held.
Balance Sheet Management page 238 for a description of the activities and an analysis of Equity securities classified as available for third party assets in balance sheet management.
sale page 235 includes private equity holdings and other strategic investments.
Risk management of insurance operations page 249 includes an analysis of the financial Other represents financial investments held in investments within our insurance operations by certain locally managed treasury portfolios and the type of contractual liabilities that they back.
other GB&M portfolios held for specific business activities.
