HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Operational risk Management framework In 2013 Operational risk Unaudited 1 Page App Tables Page Operational risk................................................... 287 Operational risk management framework....... 244 Three lines of defence............................................................ 244 Operational risk management framework............................ 245 Operational risk in 2013..................................... 245 Frequency and amount of operational risk losses.
Operational risk is relevant to every aspect Operational risk management framework of our business and covers a wide spectrum The Group Operational Risk function and the of issues, in particular legal, compliance, operational risk management framework ORMF security and fraud.
Losses arising from directs business management in discharging their breaches of regulation and law, unauthorised responsibilities.
activities, error, omission, inefficiency, fraud, systems failure or external events all fall The ORMF defines minimum standards within the definition of operational risk.
and processes, and the governance structure for operational risk and internal control across the Group.
Responsibility for minimising operational risk lies To implement the ORMF a three lines of defence with HSBCs management and staff.
Each regional, model is used for the management of risk, as global business, country, business unit and functional described below: head is required to maintain oversight over the operational risks and internal controls of the business Three lines of defence and operational activities for which they are Every employee at HSBC is responsible for the responsible.
risks that are a part of their day to day jobs.
First The first line of defence ensures all key risks line of within their operations are identified, mitigated A summary of our current policies and practices defence and monitored by appropriate internal controls regarding operational risk is provided in the within an overall control environment.
Consists of the Global Functions such as Global Second Risk, Finance and HR who are responsible for line of providing assurance, challenge and oversight defence of the activities conducted by the first line.
Third Internal Audit provides independent assurance line of over the first and second lines of defence.
defence A diagrammatic representation of the ORMF is presented below: 244 Operational risk management framework Operational risks 1 Risk and Control Assessment RCA Operations Accounting Compliance 2 Key indicators KIs Fiduciary Top Risk Internal fraud Analysis External fraud TRA 3 Internal incidents Physical Action Business continuity Information Legal 4 External events Tax Technology People Capital Modelling Project Political Set risk Governance Identify Assess Control Report appetite RCAs are used to inform the evaluation of the effectiveness of controls over top risks.
KIs are used to help monitor the risks and controls.
TRAs scenarios provide management with a quantified view of our top and emerging operational risks.
Internal incidents are used to forecast typical losses.
External sources are used to inform the assessment of extreme TRAs.
We continued to refine our ORMF policies and investigating whether cost-effective insurance procedures in 2013 and undertook various activities cover is available to mitigate the risk: and such as a global training programme to further embed other means of protecting us from loss.
the use of the framework in the management of the Group.
In addition, an enhanced Top Risk Analysis process is being implemented across material Articulating our risk appetite for material legal entities to improve the quantification and operational risks helps the organisation understand management of material risks through scenario the level of risk HSBC is willing to accept.
Operational Risk appetite statement is approved annually by the Board under advice from the GRC.
Operational risk in 2013 Monitoring operational risk exposure against risk appetite on a regular basis and implementing our During 2013, our operational top and emerging risk risk acceptance process drives risk awareness in a profile continued to be dominated by compliance and forward-looking manner.
It assists management in legal risks as referred to in the Top and emerging determining whether further action is required.
risks section and Note 43 on the Financial Statements.
Losses were realised relating to events Operational risk and control assessments are that occurred in previous years, albeit at a lower level performed by individual business units and functions.
These events included the possible The risk and control assessment process is designed historical mis-selling of payment protection insurance to provide business areas and functions with a PPI and interest rate protection products in the UK forward looking view of operational risks and an see Note 31 on the Financial Statements.
A number assessment of the effectiveness of controls, and a of mitigating actions continued to be taken to prevent tracking mechanism for action plans so that they future mis-selling incidents, including enhanced new can proactively manage operational risks within product approval processes.
Risk and control assessments are reviewed and updated at least annually.
The incidence of regulatory proceedings and other adversarial proceedings against financial Appropriate means of mitigation and controls are service firms is increasing.
These include: to capital and liquidity requirements, remuneration making specific changes to strengthen the and or taxes could increase our cost of doing business, internal control environment: reducing future profitability.
Various regulators and competition authorities around the world are also 245 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Operational risk In 2013 Compliance risk investigating and reviewing certain past submissions Significant investment has already been made in made by panel banks and the process for making enhancing controls, including increased training submissions in connection with the setting of Libor, to raise staff awareness of the requirements, Euribor and other benchmark interest and foreign improved controls around data access and exchange rates.
In response, we have undertaken a heightened monitoring of potential DDoS number of initiatives which seek to address the issues attacks.
The Cyber Intelligence and Threat identified, including creating a Global management team continues to pro-actively develop our structure, enhancing our governance and oversight, intelligence-driven responses to these attacks increasing our compliance function resource, based on lessons learnt from previous attacks and emphasising HSBC Values and designing and through information sharing with other financial implementing new Global Standards as described institutions, government agencies and external on page 23.
For further information, see Note 43 on intelligence providers.
We continue to refine our the Financial Statements.
operational processes and contingency plans: Other operational risks included: vendor risk management: we remain focused on the management of vendor risks and a pilot has fraud risks: the threat of fraud perpetrated by or commenced with our most critical suppliers to against our customers, especially in retail and introduce a global performance tracking process: commercial banking, may grow during adverse and economic conditions.
We have increased monitoring, analysed root causes and reviewed compliance with regulatory agreements and internal controls to enhance our defences against orders: in relation to the DPAs, the Group has external attacks and reduce the level of loss in committed to take or continue to adhere to a these areas.
In addition, Group Security and number of remedial measures.
Breach of the Fraud Risk worked closely with the global DPAs at any time during its term may allow businesses to continually assess these threats as the DoJ or the New York County District they evolve and adapt our controls to mitigate Attorneys Office to prosecute HSBC in relation these risks: to the matters which are the subject of the DPAs.
For further details see Note 43 on the Financial level of change creating operational complexity: Statements.
management and the Risk function are engaged in business transformation initiatives to ensure Other operational risks are also monitored and robust internal controls are maintained.
This managed through the use of the ORMF, including includes Risk participating in all relevant investments made to further improve the resilience management committees.
The Global of our payments infrastructure.
Transactions team has developed a framework to Further information on the nature of these risks is provided in be applied to the management of disposal risks: Top and emerging risks on page 141. information security: the security of our Frequency and amount of operational risk information and technology infrastructure is losses crucial for maintaining our banking applications and processes while protecting our customers The profile of operational risk incidents and and the HSBC brand.
A failure of our defences associated losses is summarised below, showing the against such attacks could result in financial loss distribution of operational risk incidents in terms of and the loss of customer data and other sensitive their frequency of occurrence and total loss amount in information which could undermine both our US dollars.
reputation and our ability to retain the trust of As in 2012, the operational risk incident profile our customers.
in 2013 comprised both high frequency, low impact In common with other banks and multinational events and high impact events that occurred much less organisations, we continue to be target of frequently.
For example, losses due to external fraud distributed denial of service DDoS attacks incidents such as credit card fraud occurred more often which impact the availability of customer-facing than other types of event, but the amounts involved websites.
No evidence of customer data being were often small in value.
By contrast, operational risk breached was discovered as a result of these incidents in the compliance category were relatively attacks.
low frequency events, but the total cost was significant.
This area will continue to be a focus of ongoing initiatives to strengthen the control environment.
246 The number of fraud cases decreased in the past In line with our ambition to be the worlds year due to the strengthening of the fraud control leading international bank, we have committed to environment including transaction fraud monitoring adopt and adhere to industry-leading compliance capabilities.
The total amount of fraud losses standards across the Group.
One of the ways to increased due to Madoff-related litigation costs.
achieve this is to ensure that we put in place a robust compliance risk management infrastructure.
Losses due to significant historical events including the possible mis-selling of PPI and interest In December 2012, we appointed a Global Head rate protection products in the UK and the incidence of Financial Crime Compliance with particular of regulatory matters described in Note 43 on the expertise and experience in US law and regulation.
Financial Statements remained substantial, but were When we appointed a Global Head of Regulatory significantly reduced from 2012.
Compliance in April 2013, we restructured our previous Compliance sub-function within Global Frequency of operational risk incidents by Risk into two new sub-functions: Financial Crime risk category individual loss US$10k Compliance and Regulatory Compliance, jointly supported by Compliance Shared Services.
This 5% Compliance restructuring allows us to: 5% manage different types of regulatory and 38% Fraud 54% financial crime compliance risk more effectively: 7% Legal focus our efforts appropriately in addressing the 7% issues highlighted by regulatory investigations Operations 21% and and reviews, internal audits and risk assessments 24% Systems of our past business activities: and 25% People 6% ensure we have in place clear, robust 2013 4% accountability and appropriate expertise and Other 4% 2012 processes for all areas of compliance risk.
Financial Crime Compliance sets policy and Distribution of operational risk losses in US dollars manages risks in the following areas: by risk category anti-money laundering, counter terrorist 42% Compliance financing and proliferation finance: 78% sanctions: and 15% Fraud 4% anti-bribery and corruption.
13% Legal 5% Regulatory Compliance sets policy and manages Operations 23% risks in the following areas: and 9% Systems conduct of business: 2% People 0% market conduct: and 5% 2013 Other 4% other applicable laws, rules and regulations.
2012 We continue to invest in the Compliance subCompliance risk functions to ensure that, through their operation Unaudited and the execution of the Group strategy, including measures to implement Global Standards, we are Compliance risk is the risk that we fail to well positioned to meet increased levels of regulation observe the letter and spirit of all relevant and scrutiny from regulators and law enforcement laws, codes, rules, regulations and standards agencies.
In addition, the measures we have put in of good market practice, and incur fines and place are designed to ensure we have the appropriate penalties and suffer damage to our business people, processes and procedures to manage evolving as a consequence.
markets, emerging risks and new products and All Group companies and employees are required business.
to observe the letter and spirit of all relevant laws, codes, rules, regulations and standards of good market practice.
247 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Operational risk Fiduciary risk Insurance operations The Groups focus on compliance and conduct party that involves a legal and or regulatory duty to issues is further reinforced by the Financial System act with a high standard of care and with good faith.
Vulnerabilities Committee which reports to the Board A fiduciary must make decisions and act in the on matters relating to financial crime and financial interests of the third party and must place the wants system abuse and provides a forward-looking and needs of the client first, above the needs of the perspective on financial crime risk see page 358.
addition, the Conduct & Values Committee which We may be held liable for damages or other was established in January 2014, will report to the penalties caused by failure to act in accordance with Board on matters relating to responsible business these duties.
Fiduciary duties may also arise in other conduct and adherence to HSBCs Values see circumstances, such as when we act as an agent for a page 25. principal, unless the fiduciary duties are specifically It is clear that the level of inherent compliance excluded e. g. under the agency appointment risk that we face will continue to remain high for the contract.
However, we consider that good Our principal fiduciary businesses the progress is being made and will continue to be made designated businesses have developed fiduciary in ensuring that we are well placed to effectively risk appetite statements for their various fiduciary manage those risks.
roles and have put in place key indicators to monitor their related risks.
Fiduciary risk Unaudited Following a joint review between Global Operational Risk and RBWM, an appropriate Fiduciary risk is the risk to the Group of governance structure is now in place to monitor breaching our fiduciary duties when we act in fiduciary risk in the non-designated businesses a fiduciary capacity as trustee or investment conducting fiduciary activity within RBWM.
manager or as mandated by law or regulation.
The majority of the risk in our insurance global businesses, but predominantly by RBWM and business derives from manufacturing CMB through our branches and direct channels activities and can be categorised as worldwide.
insurance risk and financial risk.
Insurance The insurance contracts we sell relate to the risk is the risk, other than financial risk, underlying needs of our banking customers, which of loss transferred from the holder of the we can identify from our point-of-sale contacts and insurance contract to the issuer HSBC.
The majority of sales are of Financial risks include market risk, credit savings and investment products and term and credit risk and liquidity risk.
By focusing largely on personal and SME lines of business we are able to optimise There were no material changes during 2013 to our volumes and diversify individual insurance risks.
policies and practices for the management of risks arising in the insurance operations, including the Where we have operational scale and risk risks relating to different life and non-life products.
appetite, mostly in life insurance, these insurance The RBWM Risk Management Committee assumed products are manufactured by HSBC subsidiaries.
the responsibilities of the Group Insurance Risk Manufacturing insurance allows us to retain the Management Committee.
risks and rewards associated with writing insurance contracts by keeping part of the underwriting profit, A summary of our policies and practices investment income and distribution commission regarding the risk management of insurance within the Group.
operations, and the main contracts we manufacture, are provided in the Appendix Where we do not have the risk appetite or to Risk on page 290 unaudited.
operational scale to be an effective insurance manufacturer, we engage with a handful of leading HSBCs bancassurance model external insurance companies in order to provide We operate an integrated bancassurance model insurance products to our customers through our which provides insurance products principally for banking network and direct channels.
These customers with whom we have a banking arrangements are generally structured with our relationship.
Insurance products are sold through all exclusive strategic partners and earn the Group a 249 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Insurance operations In 2013 Risk management Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries combination of commissions, fees and a share of US$656m.
At the reporting date substantially all profits.
remaining manufacturing business was life business.
We distribute insurance products in all of our Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing geographical regions.
We have core life insurance subsidiaries manufacturing entities, the majority of which are Audited direct subsidiaries of legal banking entities, in A principal tool used to manage exposures to both seven countries Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, France, financial and insurance risk, in particular for life UK, Hong Kong and Singapore.
There are also insurance contracts, is asset and liability matching.
manufacturing subsidiaries in mainland China, In many markets in which we operate it is neither Malaysia, Malta and Ireland.
The majority of our possible nor appropriate to follow a perfect asset non-life insurance manufacturing entities and and liability matching strategy.
For long-dated portfolios were disposed of between 2011 and 2013. non-linked contracts, in particular, this results in a duration mismatch between assets and liabilities.
Risk management of insurance operations We therefore structure portfolios to support in 2013 projected liabilities from non-linked contracts.
The risk profile of our life insurance manufacturing In the absence of insurable events occurring, businesses did not change materially during 2013 unit-linked contracts match assets more directly with despite the increase in liabilities to policyholders on liabilities.
This results in the policyholder bearing these contracts to US$74bn 2012: US$68bn.
This the majority of the financial risk exposure.
growth in liabilities largely resulted from new premiums received during 2013 and market value The tables below show the composition of assets gains on underlying financial assets.
and liabilities by contract and by geographical region and demonstrate that there were sufficient assets to The disposals of the remaining non-core noncover the liabilities to policyholders in each case at life insurance manufacturing businesses were the end of 2013. completed during the year.
Our exposure to financial risks arising in the shareholder HSBC.
For contracts with DPF, the above balance sheet varies depending on the type shareholder is exposed to financial risks to the extent of contract issued.
For unit-linked contracts, the that the exposure cannot be managed by utilising any policyholder bears the majority of the exposure to discretionary participation or bonus features within financial risks whereas, for non-linked contracts, the policy contracts issued.
Financial risks liquidity risk the risk of not being able to make Audited payments to policyholders as they fall due as there are insufficient assets that can be realised Details on the nature of financial risks and how they are managed are provided in the as cash.
The following table analyses the assets held in our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries at Financial risks can be categorised into: 31 December 2013 by type of contract, and provides market risk risk arising from changes in the fair a view of the exposure to financial risk.
For values of financial assets or their future cash flows unit-linked contracts, which pay benefits to from fluctuations in variables such as interest policyholders determined by reference to the value rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices: of the investments supporting the policies, we typically designate assets at fair value: for noncredit risk the risk of financial loss following linked contracts, the classification of the assets is the failure of third parties to meet their driven by the nature of the underlying contract.
Approximately 64% of financial assets were guaranteed benefits, for example for annuities in invested in debt securities at 31 December 2013 payment, are reserved for as part of the calculation 2012: 66% with 28% 2012: 25% invested of liabilities under insurance contracts.
In the case of products that offer guaranteed Under unit-linked contracts, premium income financial returns, if mismatches exist as a result of less charges levied is invested in a portfolio of current yields falling below guaranteed levels for a assets.
We manage the financial risks of this prolonged period, the risk that shareholder capital product on behalf of the policyholders by holding is required to meet liabilities to policyholders appropriate assets in segregated funds or portfolios increases.
The table below shows the total reserve to which the liabilities are linked.
These assets held for the stochastically modelled cost of represented 25% 2012: 25% of the total financial guarantees under products manufactured by our assets of our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries insurance subsidiaries that offer a guaranteed level at the end of 2013. of financial return.
The cost of guarantees is reserved for through policyholder liabilities to the extent that The remaining financial risks are managed local reserving requirements require liabilities to either solely on behalf of the shareholder, or jointly be held, with the remainder accounted for as a on behalf of the shareholder and policyholders where deduction to PVIF on the relevant product.
table also shows the range of investment returns on the assets supporting these products and the implied Market risk investment returns that would enable the business Audited to meet the guarantees.
Market risk arises when mismatches occur between The only portfolios of contracts where current product liabilities and the investment assets which investment returns are below guaranteed rates are back them.
For example, mismatches between asset reported in the nominal annual return 4.1-5.0% and liability yields and maturities give rise to interest category in the table below.
These relate to closed rate risk.
portfolios in Hong Kong guaranteed rate 5.0%, Long-term insurance or investment products current yield 4.1% and France guaranteed rate may incorporate benefits that are guaranteed.
In addition to the above a deduction from PVIF tests.
The relationship between the profit and of US$134m 2012: US$214m is made in respect total equity and the risk factors is non-linear of the modelled cost of guaranteed annuity options and, therefore, the results disclosed should not be attached to certain unit-linked pension products.
extrapolated to measure sensitivities to different levels of stress.
The sensitivities are stated before The following table illustrates the effects of allowance for management actions which may selected interest rate, equity price, foreign exchange mitigate the effect of changes in market rates.
The rate and credit spread scenarios on our profit for the sensitivities presented allow for adverse changes in year and the total equity of our insurance policyholder behaviour that may arise in response to manufacturing subsidiaries.
Where appropriate, we include the impact of the stress on the PVIF in the results of the sensitivity Sensitivity of HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries to market risk factors Audited 2013 2012 Effect on Effect on Effect on Effect on profit total profit total after tax equity after tax equity US$m US$m US$m US$m 100 basis points parallel shift in yield curves....................................... 151 199 125 263 100 basis points parallel shift in yield curves....................................... 230 139 208 205 10% increase in equity prices................................................................... 149 149 91 91 10% decrease in equity prices.................................................................. 129 129 92 92 10% increase in US dollar exchange rate compared to all currencies..... 21 21 40 40 10% decrease in US dollar exchange rate compared to all currencies.... 21 21 40 40 Sensitivity to credit spread increases....................................................... 21 46 18 50 Credit risk insurance subsidiaries are classified as either held Audited to maturity or available for sale, and consequently any changes in the fair value of these financial Credit risk can give rise to losses through default investments, absent impairment, would have no and can lead to volatility in our income statement effect on the profit after tax.
We calculate the and balance sheet figures through movements sensitivity using simplified assumptions based on a in credit spreads, principally on the US$51bn one-day movement in credit spreads over a two-year 2012: US$48bn bond portfolio supporting nonperiod.
A confidence level of 99%, consistent with linked contracts and shareholders funds.
As tabulated above, the sensitivity of the net profit after tax of our insurance subsidiaries to the Credit quality effects of increases in credit spreads has increased Audited since 2012 due to portfolio growth during 2013.
The The following table presents an analysis of treasury balance and related movement are small because bills, other eligible bills and debt securities within about 90% of the debt securities held by our our insurance business by measures of credit quality.
255 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Insurance operations Financial risks Only assets supporting liabilities under nonpolicyholder.
83.4% 2012: 83.5% of the assets linked insurance and investment contracts and included in the table are invested in investments shareholders funds are included in the table as rated as strong.
financial risk on assets supporting unit-linked For a definition of the five credit quality classifications, see liabilities is predominantly borne by the page 267 unaudited.
256 Credit risk also arises when assumed insurance below.
Our exposure to third parties under the risk is ceded to reinsurers.
The split of liabilities reinsurance agreements described in the Appendix ceded to reinsurers and outstanding reinsurance to Risk on page 293 is included in this table.
Liquidity risk with policyholders for the majority of our business, Audited and wholly borne by the policyholder in the case of unit-linked business.
The following tables show the expected undiscounted cash flows for insurance contract The profile of the expected maturity of the liabilities and the remaining contractual maturity of insurance contracts at 31 December 2013 remained investment contract liabilities at 31 December 2013. comparable with 2012.
Insurance risk can be influenced by many factors, including mortality and morbidity experience, lapse and Following disposals of non-life entities and surrender rates and, if the policy has a savings portfolios in 2012 and 2013, substantially all element, the performance of the assets held to remaining manufacturing business is life business.
Insurance risk is principally measured in terms of liabilities under the contracts.
The following tables analyse our insurance risk exposures by geographical region and by type of A principal risk we continue to face is that, business.
The insurance risk profile and related over time, the cost of acquiring and administering exposures remained largely consistent with those a contract, claims and benefits may exceed the observed at 31 December 2012. aggregate amount of premiums received and investment income.
Our most significant life insurance products liabilities.
For a portfolio of term assurance, an are investment contracts with DPF issued in France, increase in lapse rates typically has a negative effect insurance contracts with DPF issued in Hong Kong on profit due to the loss of future premium income and unit-linked contracts issued in Latin America, on the lapsed policies.
However, some contract Hong Kong and the UK.
lapses have a positive effect on profit due to the existence of policy surrender charges.
Brazil, France, Sensitivities to non-economic assumptions Hong Kong and the UK are where we are most Audited sensitive to a change in lapse rates.
Policyholder liabilities and PVIF for life Expense rate risk is the exposure to a change in manufacturers are determined by reference to nonthe cost of administering insurance contracts.
To the economic assumptions including mortality and or extent that increased expenses cannot be passed on morbidity, lapse rates and expense rates.
The table to policyholders, an increase in expense rates will below shows the sensitivity of profit for 2013 and have a negative effect on our profits.
total equity at 31 December 2013 to reasonably possible changes in these non-economic assumptions Sensitivity analysis at that date across all our insurance manufacturing Audited 2013 2012 subsidiaries, with comparatives for 2012.
US$m US$m Mortality and morbidity risk is typically Effect on profit after tax and total equity at 31 December associated with life insurance contracts.
The effect 10% increase in mortality and or on profit of an increase in mortality or morbidity morbidity rates............................ 76 88 depends on the type of business being written.
Our 10% decrease in mortality and or largest exposures to mortality and morbidity risk morbidity rates............................ 79 92 71 exist in Brazil, France and Hong Kong.
10% increase in lapse rates.......... 119 130 71 10% decrease in lapse rates.......... 133 145 Sensitivity to lapse rates depends on the type 10% increase in expense rates........ 101 106 of contracts being written.
For insurance contracts, 10% decrease in expense rates....... 100 107 claims are funded by premiums received and income For footnote, see page 265. earned on the investment portfolio supporting the 259 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Reputational risk Pension risk Other material risks 1 Page App Tables Page Reputational risk................................................. 260 294 Pension risk.......................................................... 260 295 Pension plans in the UK........................................ 296 The principal plan.................................................. 261 The principal plan target asset allocation......................... 261 Benefit payments US$m...................................................... 261 Future developments.............................................. 262 Pension plans in Hong Kong.................................
Reputational risk programme that defines the way everyone in Unaudited the Group should act and seeks to ensure that the Values are embedded into our business as Reputational risk can arise from issues, usual operations: and activities and associations that might pose a threat to the reputation of the Group locally, the ongoing development and implementation regionally or internationally.
of the Global Standards by which we conduct our businesses.
This includes ensuring there is We have continued to take steps to tackle the root a globally consistent approach to knowing and causes of the deficiencies that, amongst other things, retaining our customers and enforcing a uniform led to the Group entering into DPAs with various US global sanctions policy.
authorities in relation to investigations regarding inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering Detecting and preventing illicit actors access and sanctions law in December 2012. to the global financial system calls for constant vigilance and we will continue to cooperate closely A number of measures to address the requirements with all governments to achieve success.
This is of the DPAs and otherwise to enhance our anti-money integral to the execution of our strategy, to our laundering and sanctions compliance framework have core values and to preserving and enhancing our been taken and are ongoing.
should also serve over time to enhance our reputational risk management, include the following: Pension risk simplifying our business through the ongoing Audited implementation of our Group strategy, including We operate a number of pension plans the adoption of a global risk filter which is helping throughout the world.
Some are defined to standardise our approach to doing business in benefit plans, of which the largest is the higher risk countries: HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme the a substantial increase in resources and investment principal plan.
allocated to the Compliance function, and its There were no material changes to our policies and reorganisation into two sub-functions see procedures for the management of pension risk in Compliance risk on page 247 : 2013. an increase in dedicated reputational risk resources During 2013, the Groups defined benefit centrally and in each region in which we operate pension plans increased from a net asset of US$32m and the introduction of a central case management to a net asset of US$125m.
This was mainly due and tracking process for reputational risk and to reductions in plan liabilities outside the UK client relationship matters: exceeding the deterioration in the UK principal plan net balance sheet position.
the continued roll-out of training and communication about the HSBC Values 260 The principal plan relating to the defined benefit plan, the defined Audited contribution plan and additional voluntary contributions.
The market value of the plan assets In 2006 the principal plans assets consisted of a represented 100% of the amount expected to be portfolio which reflected a largely equity-based required, on the basis of the assumptions adopted, strategy.
At the time, HSBC and the Trustee of the to provide the benefits accrued to members after principal plan agreed to change the investment allowing for expected future increases in earnings.
strategy in order to reduce the investment risk and There was therefore no resulting surplus deficit.
also to reduce the interest rate inflation risk of the The method adopted for this valuation was the principal plan.
The target asset allocations for this projected unit method.
strategy at that time, as revised in 2012 and at this year-end are shown below, demonstrating the The expected cash flows from the principal plan ongoing evolution of the strategy.
The strategy is were projected by reference to the Retail Price Index to hold the majority of assets in bonds, with the RPI swap break-even curve at 31 December remainder in a more diverse range of investments, 2011.
Salary increases were assumed to be 0.5% and includes a portfolio of interest rate and inflation per annum above RPI and inflationary pension swaps see Note 44 on the Financial Statements increases, subject to a minimum of 0% and by which the principal plan makes Libor-related a maximum of 5% maximum of 3% per annum in interest payments in exchange for the receipt of respect of service accrued since 1 July 2009, were cash flows which are based on projected future assumed to be in line with RPI.
The projected cash benefit payments to be made from the principal plan.
flows were discounted at the Libor swap curve at HSBC and the Trustee have developed a general 31 December 2011 plus a margin for the expected framework, which, over time, will see the Schemes return on the investment strategy of 160bps per asset strategy evolve to be less risky: this is annum.
The mortality experience of the principal described in further detail below.
plans pensioners over the six-year period 2006- 2011 was analysed and, on the basis of this analysis, The principal plan target asset allocation the mortality assumptions were set, based on the SAPS S1 series of tables adjusted to reflect the 2013 2012 2006 % % % pensioner experience.
Allowance was made for 72 future improvements to mortality rates in line Equities......................... 19.4 15.5 15.0 with the Continuous Mortality Investigation core Bonds.............................. 64.5 60.5 50.0 73 Alternative assets......... 10.6 9.5 10.0 projections with a long run improvement rate set at Property........................... 5.5 9.0 10.0 2% for males and 1.5% for females.
The benefits 74 Cash.............................. 5.5 15.0 payable from the defined benefit plan from 2014 100.0 100.0 100.0 are expected to be as shown in the chart below.
Benefit payments US$m 2,000 As a result of a special contribution to 1,800 the principal plan in June 2010 of 1,760m 1,600 US$2,638m, a cash generating portfolio was 1,400 established.
The portfolio comprised supra-national, 1,200 1,000 agency and  securities, 800 ABSs, corporate subordinated debt and auction 600 rate securities.
A further special contribution in 400 December 2011 of 184m US$286m added to 200 this portfolio.
The contribution was used to 0 purchase ABSs from HSBC at an arms length value determined by the principal plans independent third-party advisers.
However, these assets may be As part of the 31 December 2011 valuation, supplemented with other assets from time to time.
calculations were also made of the amount of assets that might be needed to meet the liabilities if the The latest actuarial valuation of the principal principal plan was discontinued and the members plan was made as at 31 December 2011 by benefits bought out with an insurance company C G Singer, Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries, of although in practice this may not be possible for Towers Watson Limited.
At that date, the market a plan of this size or the Trustee continued to run value of the HSBC Bank UK Pension Schemes the plan without the support of HSBC.
The amount assets was 18.3bn US$28.3bn including assets 261 2014 2020 2026 2032 2038 2044 2050 2056 2062 2068 2074 2080 2086 2092 2098 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Pension risk Sustainability risk Footnotes to Risk required under this approach was estimated to be defined benefit section members.
Since April 2010, 26.2bn US$40.6bn as at 31 December 2011. after completion of the 2008 valuation, HSBC has In arriving at this estimation, a more prudent paid contributions at the rate of 34% of pensionable assumption about future mortality was made than salaries less member contributions.
for the assessment of the ongoing position and it was Following completion of the 2011 triennial assumed that the Trustee would alter the investment valuation, HSBC will pay contributions at the strategy to be an appropriately matched portfolio rate of 43% of pensionable salaries less member of UK government bonds.
An explicit allowance contributions from 1 April 2013.
An additional for expenses was also included.
employer contribution was paid in April 2013 equal Based on the latest valuation as at 31 December to 9% of pensionable salaries, in respect of the 2011 and there being no deficit, no technical period 1 January 2012 to 31 March 2013. provisions recovery plan is required and the schedule of future funding payments agreed after the 2008 Future developments Unaudited actuarial valuation was dissolved.
In June 2013, following consultation on various HSBC and the Trustee have developed a general employee benefit proposals, HSBC announced to framework which, over time, will see the principal employees in the UK that the future service accrual plans asset strategy evolve to be less risky and for active members of the Defined Benefit Section further aligned to the expected future cash-flows, DBS would cease with effect from 30 June 2015. referred to as the Target Matching Portfolio As a result, defined benefit pensions based on TMP.
The TMP would therefore contain service to 30 June 2015 will continue to be linked to sufficient assets, the majority of which will be bondfinal salary on retirement underpinned by increases like in nature, which are more closely aligned to the in CPI but all active members of the DBS will liability profile.
Progress towards the TMP can be become members of the Defined Contribution achieved by asset returns in excess of that assumed Section from 1 July 2015.
As part of these and or additional funding.
In 2013, HSBC agreed to amendments, the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme make general framework contributions of 64m the Scheme will cease to deliver ill-health US$103m in each of the calendar years 2013, 2014 benefits to active members of the DBS, and these and 2015 as well as 128m US$212m in 2016. benefits will, instead, be covered via insurance Contingent upon the continued implementation of policies from 1 January 2015, consistent with other the general framework, further contributions have UK employees.
This resulted in a reduction in the been agreed to be made in future years.
defined benefit obligation of the Scheme and a After the 2008 valuation, HSBC considered that corresponding gain of US$430m, recorded in Past the agreed recovery plan payments, together with service cost and gains losses on settlements.
investment returns at an expected level of 240 basis points above the Libor swap curve, would be The HSBC Group Hong Kong Local Staff sufficient to meet the deficit as at 31 December 2008 Retirement Benefit Scheme over the agreed period.
HSBC also agreed with the Audited Trustee that at each subsequent actuarial valuation The scheme mainly invests in bonds with a smaller any shortfall in investment returns relative to this portion in equities and each investment manager expected level, subject to a maximum of 50 basis has been assigned an investment mandate with the points per annum, would be eliminated by payment targeted asset allocation.
The ranges of target asset of equal cash instalments over the remaining years allocations for the portfolio are as follows: bonds to the end of the recovery plan period.
and cash 55-100%, equity 0-25% and alternative Although the 2011 triennial valuation disclosed investments 0-20%.
Alternative investments refer no deficit and therefore no technical provisions to high-return and high-risk alternatives including, recovery plan is required, HSBC and the Trustee but not limited to, private equity funds, hedge funds, have agreed to maintain this investment performance energy, gold, agriculture, commodities and underwriting agreement.
performance will be assessed every three years, The latest actuarial valuation of the defined with an end date of 31 December 2017.
Any benefit scheme was made at 31 December 2012 payments due would only be payable if a technical by Wing Lui, Fellow of the Society of Actuaries, provisions deficit is present at the reference date.
of Towers Watson Hong Kong Limited.
At that HSBC Bank is also making contributions to the valuation date, the market value of the defined principal plan in respect of the accrual of benefits of benefit schemes assets was US$1,087m.
