HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Footnotes Notes on the Financial Statements 1 Basis of preparation 1 Basis of preparation a Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards The consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and as endorsed by the EU.
EU-endorsed IFRSs could differ from IFRSs as issued by the IASB if, at any point in time, new or amended IFRSs were not to be endorsed by the EU.
At 31 December 2013, there were no unendorsed standards effective for the year ended 31 December 2013 affecting these consolidated and separate financial statements, and there was no difference between IFRSs endorsed by the EU and IFRSs issued by the IASB in terms of their application to HSBC.
Accordingly, HSBCs financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 are prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
IFRSs comprise accounting standards issued by the IASB and its predecessor body as well as interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC and its predecessor body.
Standards adopted during the year ended 31 December 2013 On 1 January 2013, HSBC adopted the following significant new standards and amendments to standards.
The financial effect of these new standards and amendments is insignificant to these consolidated financial statements: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities and amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 Transition Guidance are required to be applied retrospectively.
Under IFRS 10, there is one approach for determining consolidation for all entities, based on the concepts of power, variability of returns and their linkage.
This replaces the approach which applied to previous financial statements which emphasised legal control or exposure to risks and rewards, depending on the nature of the entity.
HSBC controls and consequently consolidates an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns by exercising its power over the entity.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 10, we reviewed the population of investments in entities as at 1 January 2013 to determine whether entities previously consolidated or unconsolidated in accordance with IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements and SIC 12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities changed their consolidation status as a result of applying IFRS 10.
The result of this review was that the effect of applying the requirements of IFRS 10 did not have a material effect on these consolidated financial statements.
Therefore no restatements are necessary on application of IFRS 10.
IFRS 11 places more focus on the investors rights and obligations than on the structure of the arrangement when determining the type of joint arrangement with which HSBC is involved, unlike the previous approach, and introduces the concept of a joint operation.
The application of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements did not have a material effect on these consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 12 is a comprehensive standard on disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including for unconsolidated structured entities.
The disclosure requirements of IFRS 12 do not require comparative information to be provided for periods prior to initial application.
New disclosures are provided in Note 42.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement establishes a single framework for measuring fair value and introduces new requirements for disclosure of fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 is required to be applied prospectively from the beginning of the first annual period in which it is applied.
The disclosure requirements of IFRS 13 do not require comparative information to be provided for periods prior to initial application.
Disclosures are provided in Notes 15 and 16.
Amendments to IFRS 7 Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities requires disclosure of the effect or potential effects of netting arrangements on an entitys financial position.
The amendment requires disclosure of recognised financial instruments that are subject to an enforceable master 428 netting arrangement or similar agreement.
The amendments have been applied retrospectively.
Disclosures are provided in Note 34.
The amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits IAS 19 revised are required to be applied retrospectively.
The main effect of IAS 19 revised for HSBC is that it replaces the interest cost on the plan liability and expected return on plan assets with a finance cost comprising the net interest on the net defined benefit liability or asset.
This finance cost is determined by applying to the net defined benefit liability or asset the same discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation.
The difference between the actual return on plan assets and the return included in the finance cost component reflected in the income statement is presented in other comprehensive income.
The effect of this change is to increase or decrease the pension expense by the difference between the current expected return on plan assets and the return calculated by applying the relevant discount rate.
During 2013, HSBC adopted a number of interpretations and amendments to standards which had an insignificant effect on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
b Differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards There are no significant differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards in terms of their application to HSBC and consequently there would be no significant differences had the financial statements been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards.
The Notes on the Financial Statements, taken together with the Report of the Directors, include the aggregate of all disclosures necessary to satisfy IFRSs and Hong Kong reporting requirements.
c Presentation of information Disclosures under IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures concerning the nature and extent of risks relating to insurance contracts and financial instruments have been included in the audited sections of the Report of the Directors: Risk on pages 134 to 297.
Capital disclosures under IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements have been included in the audited sections of Report of the Directors: Capital on pages 298 to 328.
Disclosures relating to HSBCs securitisation activities and structured products have been included in the audited section of Report of the Directors: Risk on pages 134 to 297.
In accordance with HSBCs policy to provide disclosures that help investors and other stakeholders understand the Groups performance, financial position and changes thereto, the information provided in the Notes on the Financial Statements and the Report of the Directors goes beyond the minimum levels required by accounting standards, statutory and regulatory requirements and listing rules.
In particular, HSBC provides additional disclosures having regard to the recommendations of the Enhanced Disclosures Task Force EDTF report Enhancing the Risk Disclosures of Banks issued in October 2012.
The report aims to help financial institutions identify areas that investors had highlighted needed better and more transparent information about banks risks, and how these risks relate to performance measurement and reporting.
The recommendations for disclosure improvement focused on the principal risks faced by the banking industry, and included disclosures about risk governance, capital adequacy, liquidity, funding, credit risk, market risk and other risks.
In addition, HSBC follows the British Bankers Association Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure the BBA Code.
The BBA Code aims to increase the quality and comparability of UK banks disclosures and sets out five disclosure principles together with supporting guidance.
In line with the principles of the BBA Code, HSBC assesses good practice recommendations issued from time to time by relevant regulators and standard setters and will assess the applicability and relevance of such guidance, enhancing disclosures where appropriate.
In publishing the parent company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, HSBC Holdings has taken advantage of the exemption in section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these financial statements.
HSBCs consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars which is also HSBC Holdings functional currency.
HSBC Holdings functional currency is the US dollar because the US dollar and currencies linked to it are the most significant currencies relevant to the underlying transactions, events and conditions of its subsidiaries, as well as representing a significant proportion of its funds generated from financing activities.
429 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued 1 Basis of preparation HSBC uses the US dollar as its presentation currency in its consolidated financial statements because the US dollar and currencies linked to it form the major currency bloc in which HSBC transacts and funds its business.
d Use of estimates and assumptions The preparation of financial information requires the use of estimates and assumptions about future conditions.
The use of available information and the application of judgement are inherent in the formation of estimates: actual results in the future may differ from estimates upon which financial information is prepared.
Management believes that HSBCs critical accounting policies where judgement is necessarily applied are those which relate to impairment of loans and advances, goodwill impairment, the valuation of financial instruments, interests in associates, deferred tax assets and provisions for liabilities.
See Critical accounting policies on pages 72 to 76, which form an integral part of these financial statements.
Further information about key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty, are set out in the Notes on the Financial Statements.
e Consolidation The consolidated financial statements of HSBC comprise the financial statements of HSBC Holdings and its subsidiaries made up to 31 December, with the exception of the banking and insurance subsidiaries of HSBC Bank Argentina, whose financial statements are made up to 30 June annually to comply with local regulations.
Accordingly, HSBC uses their audited interim financial statements, drawn up to 31 December annually.
HSBC controls and consequently consolidates an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
HSBC is considered to have power over an entity when it has existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities.
For HSBC to have power over an entity, it must have the practical ability to exercise those rights.
In the rare situations where potential voting rights exist, these are taken into account if HSBC has the practical ability to exercise those rights.
Where voting rights are not relevant in deciding whether HSBC has power over an entity, the assessment of control is based on all facts and circumstances.
Where it is not immediately clear where control rests, an analysis of the purpose and design of the entity, including determining which party has power over the activities which most affect its returns and whether there are any additional rights held that may confer such power, is undertaken.
When assessing whether to consolidate investment funds, HSBC reviews all facts and circumstances to determine whether HSBC, as fund manager, is acting as agent or principal.
HSBC is deemed to be a principal, and hence controls and consolidates the funds, when it acts as fund manager and cannot be removed without cause, has variable returns through significant unit holdings and or a guarantee, and is able to influence the returns of the funds by exercising its power.
The acquisition method of accounting is used when subsidiaries are acquired by HSBC.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the consideration, including contingent consideration, given at the date of exchange.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
The acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are generally measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred, the amount of non-controlling interest and the fair value of HSBCs previously held equity interest, if any, over the net of the amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
The amount of non-controlling interest is measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
In a business combination achieved in stages, the previously held equity interest is remeasured at the acquisition-date fair value with the resulting gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
In the event that the amount of net assets acquired is in excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred, the amount of non-controlling interest and the fair value of HSBCs previously held equity interest, the difference is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Changes in a parents ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are treated as transactions between equity holders and are reported in equity.
Entities that are controlled by HSBC are consolidated from the date HSBC gains control and cease to be consolidated on the date HSBC loses control of the entities.
430 HSBC performs a re-assessment of consolidation whenever there is a change in the facts and circumstances determining the control of entities.
All intra-HSBC transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
The consolidated financial statements of HSBC also include the attributable share of the results and reserves of joint ventures and associates.
These are based on financial statements made up to 31 December, with the exception of the Bank of Communications, which is included on the basis of financial statements made up for the twelve months to 30 September.
This is equity accounted three months in arrears in order to meet the requirements of the Groups reporting timetable.
HSBC has taken into account the effect of any significant transactions or events that occurred in the period from 1 October to 31 December that would have a material effect on its results.
Disclosures of interests in unconsolidated structured entities provide information on involvement in these entities which exposes HSBC to variability of returns from the performance of the other entity.
Involvement is considered on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the nature of the entitys activity.
This could include holding debt and equity instruments, or the provision of structured derivatives, but excludes involvement that exist only because of typical customer supplier relationships, such as market-making transactions to facilitate secondary trading or senior lending in the normal course of business.
f Future accounting developments In addition to the projects to complete financial instrument accounting, discussed below, the IASB is continuing to work on projects on insurance and lease accounting which could represent significant changes to accounting requirements in the future.
Amendments issued by the IASB and endorsed by the EU In December 2011, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities which clarified the requirements for offsetting financial instruments and addressed inconsistencies in current practice when applying the offsetting criteria in IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 with early adoption permitted and are required to be applied retrospectively.
We do not expect the amendments to IAS 32 to have a material effect on HSBCs financial statements.
Standards and amendments issued by the IASB but not endorsed by the EU During 2012 and 2013, the IASB issued various amendments to IFRS that are effective from 1 January 2014 and which are expected to have an insignificant effect on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC.
In November 2009, the IASB issued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments which introduced new requirements for the classification and measurement of financial assets.
In October 2010, the IASB issued an amendment to IFRS 9 incorporating requirements for financial liabilities.
Together, these changes represent the first phase in the IASBs planned replacement of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS 9 classification and measurement requirements are to be applied retrospectively but prior periods need not be restated.
In November 2012, the IASB issued proposed amendments to IFRS 9 in respect of classification and measurement.
Since the final requirements for classification and measurement are uncertain, it remains impracticable to quantify the effect of IFRS 9 as at the date of the publication of these financial statements.
The second phase in the IASBs project to replace IAS 39 will address the impairment of financial assets.
It is proposed to replace the incurred loss approach to the impairment of financial assets carried at amortised cost in IAS 39 with an expected credit loss approach, and require that the expected credit loss approach be applied to other categories of financial instrument, including loan commitments and financial guarantees.
The final requirements for impairment of financial assets are expected to be published in 2014.
The third phase of the project addresses general hedge accounting.
Macro hedging is not included in the IFRS 9 project and will be considered separately.
In November 2013, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 9 in respect of the general hedge accounting requirements, transition and effective date.
As a result of these amendments, it is confirmed that all phases of IFRS 9 except for changes to the presentation of gains and losses for certain 431 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
