In addition to the above, KPMG estimate they have been paid fees of US$5.3m 2012: US$3.3m: 2011: US$8.6m by parties other than HSBC but where HSBC is connected with the contracting party and may therefore be involved in appointing KPMG.
These fees arise from services such as auditing mutual funds managed by HSBC and reviewing the financial position of corporate concerns which borrow from HSBC.
Fees payable to KPMG for non-audit services for HSBC Holdings are not disclosed separately because such fees are disclosed on a consolidated basis for the HSBC Group.
The Hong Kong tax rate applying to the profits of subsidiaries assessable in Hong Kong was 16.5% 2012: 16.5%: 2011: 16.5%.
Other overseas subsidiaries and overseas branches provided for taxation at the appropriate rates in the countries in which they operate.
The effective tax rate for the year benefited from the non-taxable gain on the reclassification of Industrial Bank as a financial investment and the disposal of our operations in Panama and our investment in Ping An.
The effective tax rate in 2012 was higher because of the non tax deductible effect of fines and penalties as part of the settlement of investigations into past inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering and sanction laws.
The UK Government announced that the main rate of corporation tax for the year beginning 1 April 2013 will reduce from 24% to 23%, to be followed by a further 2% reduction to 21% for the year beginning 1 April 2014 and a 1% reduction to 20% for the year beginning 1 April 2015.
The reduction in the corporate tax rate to 23%, which was enacted through the 2012 Finance Act, and this resulted in a weighted average rate of 23.25% for 2013 2012: 24.5%: 2011: 26.5%.
The reductions to 21% and 20% that were announced in the 2012 Autumn Statement and 2013 Budget, respectively, became enacted through the 2013 Finance Act on 17 July 2013.
It is not expected that the future rate reductions will have a significant effect on the Group.
The Groups legal entities are subject to routine review and audit by tax authorities in the territories in which the Group operates.
The Group provides for potential tax liabilities that may arise on the basis of the amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
The amounts ultimately paid may differ materially from the amounts provided depending on the ultimate resolution of such matters.
Deferred taxation The table overleaf shows the gross deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet and the related amounts recognised in the income statement, other comprehensive income and directly in equity.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are different from the amounts disclosed in the table overleaf as they are presented after offsetting asset and liability balances where HSBC has the legal right to set-off and intends to settle on a net basis.
The net deferred tax assets totalled US$6.5bn at 31 December 2013 2012: US$6.5bn.
The main items to note are: US The net deferred tax asset relating to HSBCs operations in the US was US$4.4bn 2012: US$4.6bn.
The deferred tax assets included in this total reflected the carry forward of tax losses and tax credits of US$0.7bn 2012: nil, deductible temporary differences in respect of loan impairment allowances of US$1.2bn 2012: US$2.0bn and other temporary differences of US$2.5bn 2012: US$2.6bn.
Deductions for loan impairments for US tax purposes generally occur when the impaired loan is charged off, or if earlier, when the impaired loan is sold.
The tax deduction is often in the period subsequent to that in which the 467 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued 9 Tax impairment is recognised for accounting purposes.
As a result, the amount of the associated deferred tax asset should generally move in line with the impairment allowance balance.
On the evidence available, including historical levels of profitability, management projections of future income and HSBC Holdings commitment to continue to retain sufficient capital in North America to recover the deferred tax asset, it is expected that there will be sufficient taxable income generated by the business to realise these assets.
Management projections of profits from the US operations are prepared for a ten year period and include assumptions about future house prices and US economic conditions, including unemployment levels.
Management projections of profits from the US operations currently indicate that tax losses and tax credits will be fully recovered by 2017.
The current level of the deferred tax asset in respect of loan impairment allowances and other deductible temporary differences is projected to reduce over the ten year period.
As there has been a recent history of losses in HSBCs US operations, managements analysis of the recognition of these deferred tax assets significantly discounts any future expected profits from the US operations and relies on capital support from HSBC Holdings, including tax planning strategies in relation to such support.
The principal strategy involves generating future taxable profits through the retention of capital in the US in excess of normal regulatory requirements in order to reduce deductible funding expenses or otherwise deploy such capital to increase levels of taxable income.
As financial performance in our US operations improves it is anticipated that projected future profits from US operations will be relied on in the evaluation of the recognition of the deferred tax asset in future periods.
Brazil The net deferred tax asset relating to HSBCs operations in Brazil was US$1.0bn 2012: US$0.9bn.
The deferred tax assets included in this total reflected the carry forward of tax losses of US$0.1bn 2012: nil, deductible temporary differences in respect of loan impairment allowances of US$0.7bn 2012: US$0.9bn and other temporary differences of US$0.2bn 2012: nil.
Deductions for loan impairments for Brazilian tax purposes generally occur when the impaired loan is charged off, often in the period subsequent to that in which the impairment is recognised for accounting purposes.
Management projections of profits from the Brazilian operations currently indicate that the tax losses will be fully recovered within the next five years and that the other temporary differences will be recovered within the next ten years.
Loan impairment deductions are recognised for tax purposes typically within two years of the accounting recognition.
On the evidence available, including historic levels of profitability, management projections of income and the state of the Brazilian economy, it is anticipated that there will be sufficient taxable income generated by the business to realise these assets when deductible for tax purposes.
Mexico The net deferred tax asset relating to HSBCs operations in Mexico was US$0.5bn 2012: US$0.6bn.
The deferred tax assets included in this total related primarily to deductible temporary differences in respect of accounting provisions for the loan portfolio.
The annual deduction for loan impairment charges was historically capped under Mexican legislation at 2.5% of the average qualifying loan portfolio.
The balance is carried forward to future years without expiry.
Following the clarification of tax law by the Mexican fiscal authority during the second quarter of the year, which led to a write down of the deferred tax assets on loan impairments of US$0.3bn, managements analysis of the recognition of these deferred tax assets now relies on the primary strategy of selling certain loan portfolios, the losses on which are deductible for tax in Mexico when sold.
Any such deductions for tax would lead to the reversal of the carried forward loan impairment provision recognised for deferred tax purposes.
On the evidence available, including historical and projected levels of loan portfolio growth, loan impairment rates and profitability, it is anticipated that the business will now realise these assets over a shorter period, within the next 6 years, than originally was the case under the previous strategy of projecting loan portfolio growth, loan impairment rates and profitability, which anticipated that the assets would be realised within the next 15 years.
Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued 9 Tax 10 Dividends 11 Earnings per share On 8 September 2013, the Mexican Government proposed a number of tax reforms that were approved by the Chamber of Senate on 31 October 2013 and published in the Official Gazette on 11 December 2013.
The tax reforms include a new basis of tax deduction for loan impairment charges that will allow banks to recognise tax deductions as and when loans are written off the balance sheet.
The reforms also brought in transitional rules to allow banks to continue to claim any unclaimed deductions with regard to the 2.5% pool as at 31 December 2013.
These transitional rules are subject to further clarification by the Mexican fiscal authority.
It is not expected that the tax reform will have a significant effect on the deferred tax assets held in HSBCs operations in Mexico.
There were no material carried forward tax losses or tax credits recognised within the Groups deferred tax assets in Mexico.
UK The net deferred tax asset relating to HSBCs operations in the UK was US$0.4bn 2012: US$0.3bn.
The deferred tax asset in respect of the carry forward of tax losses and tax credits reversed in full during the year 2012: US$0.3bn.
The closing net deferred tax asset represents other temporary differences of US$0.4bn 2012: nil.
On the evidence available, including historical levels of profitability and management projections of future income it is anticipated that there will be sufficient taxable income generated by the business to recover the net deferred tax asset within the next ten years.
Unrecognised deferred tax The amount of temporary differences, unused tax losses and tax credits for which no deferred tax asset is recognised in the balance sheet was US$22.0bn 2012: US$16.6bn.
These amounts included unused state losses arising in our US operations of US$17.3bn 2012: US$12.6bn.
Of the total amounts unrecognised, US$5.0bn 2012: US$3.9bn had no expiry date, US$1.0bn 2012: US$0.3bn was scheduled to expire within ten years and the remaining will expire after ten years.
Deferred tax is not recognised in respect of the Groups investments in subsidiaries and branches where remittance or other realisation is not probable, and for those associates and interests in joint ventures where it has been determined that no additional tax will arise.
No amount is disclosed for the unrecognised deferred tax or the 2013 and 2012 temporary differences associated with such investments as it is impracticable to determine the amount of income taxes that would be payable when any temporary differences reverse.
Deferred tax of US$20m 2012: US$269m has, however, been provided in respect of distributable reserves of associates that, on distribution, would attract withholding tax.
The losses have no expiry date.
