HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Financial summary Critical accounting policies Critical accounting policies incurred losses is likely to be greater or less than Audited that suggested by historical experience.
Where changes in economic, regulatory or behavioural Introduction conditions result in the most recent trends in The results of HSBC are sensitive to the accounting portfolio risk factors being not fully reflected in the policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the statistical models, risk factors are taken into account preparation of our consolidated financial statements.
by adjusting the impairment allowances derived The significant accounting policies are described in solely from historical loss experience.
Note 2 on the Financial Statements.
Risk factors include loan portfolio growth, The accounting policies that are deemed critical product mix, unemployment rates, bankruptcy trends, to our results and financial position, in terms of the geographical concentrations, loan product features, materiality of the items to which the policies are economic conditions such as national and local applied and the high degree of judgement involved, trends in housing markets, the level of interest rates, including the use of assumptions and estimation, are portfolio seasoning, account management policies discussed below.
and practices, changes in laws and regulations, and other influences on customer payment patterns.
Impairment of loans and advances Different factors are applied in different regions and countries to reflect local economic conditions, Our accounting policy for losses arising from the laws and regulations.
The methodology and the impairment of customer loans and advances is assumptions used in calculating impairment losses described in Note 2g on the Financial Statements.
are reviewed regularly in the light of differences Loan impairment allowances represent between loss estimates and actual loss experience.
managements best estimate of losses incurred For example, roll rates, loss rates and the expected in the loan portfolios at the balance sheet date.
timing of future recoveries are regularly Management is required to exercise judgement benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure in making assumptions and estimates when they remain appropriate.
calculating loan impairment allowances on both During 2013, we reviewed the impairment individually and collectively assessed loans and allowance methodology used for retail banking advances.
and small business portfolios across the Group to The largest concentration of collectively ensure that the assumptions used in our collective assessed loan impairment allowances are in North impairment assessment models continue to America, where they were US$3.8bn, representing appropriately reflect the periods of time between 47% 2012: US$5.2bn: 54% of the Groups total a loss event occurring, the discovery of the loss collectively assessed loan impairment allowances event and the eventual write off.
As a result of this and 25% of the Groups total impairment review, the collective impairment allowances were allowances.
Of the North American collective increased by US$251m.
impairment allowances approximately 79% Where loans are individually assessed for 2012: 86% related to the US CML portfolio.
impairment, management judgement is required in The methods used to calculate collective determining whether there is objective evidence that impairment allowances on homogeneous groups a loss event has occurred and, if so, the measurement of loans and advances that are not considered of the impairment allowance.
In determining individually significant are disclosed in Note 2g whether there is objective evidence that a loss event on the Financial Statements.
They are subject to has occurred, judgement is exercised in evaluating estimation uncertainty, in part because it is not all relevant information on indicators of impairment, practicable to identify losses on an individual loan which is not restricted to the consideration of basis because of the large number of individually whether payments are contractually past-due but insignificant loans in the portfolio.
includes broader consideration of factors indicating deterioration in the financial condition and outlook The estimation methods include the use of of borrowers affecting their ability to pay.
A higher statistical analyses of historical information, level of judgement is required for loans to borrowers supplemented with significant management showing signs of financial difficulty in market judgement, to assess whether current economic and sectors experiencing economic stress, particularly credit conditions are such that the actual level of 72 where the likelihood of repayment is affected by the Goodwill impairment prospects for refinancing or the sale of a specified Our accounting policy for goodwill is described in asset.
For those loans where objective evidence of Note 2p on the Financial Statements.
Note 22 on the impairment exists, management determine the size Financial Statements lists our cash generating units of the allowance required based on a range of factors CGUs by geographical region and global such as the realisable value of security, the likely business.
HSBCs total goodwill amounted to dividend available on liquidation or bankruptcy, the US$21bn at 31 December 2013 2012: US$21bn.
viability of the customers business model and the capacity to trade successfully out of financial The review of goodwill for impairment reflects difficulties and generate sufficient cash flow to managements best estimate of the future cash flows service debt obligations.
of the CGUs and the rates used to discount these cash flows, both of which are subject to uncertain Under certain specified conditions, we provide factors as follows: loan forbearance to borrowers experiencing financial difficulties by agreeing to modify the contractual the future cash flows of the CGUs are sensitive payment terms of loans in order to improve the to the cash flows projected for the periods for management of customer relationships, maximise which detailed forecasts are available and to collection opportunities and, if possible, avoid assumptions regarding the long-term pattern default or repossession.
Where forbearance activities of sustainable cash flows thereafter.
Forecasts are significant, higher levels of judgement and are compared with actual performance and estimation uncertainty are involved in determining verifiable economic data, but they necessarily their effects on loan impairment allowances.
reflect managements view of future business Judgements are involved in differentiating the credit prospects at the time of the assessment: and risk characteristics of forbearance cases, including the rates used to discount future expected cash those which return to performing status following flows are based on the costs of capital assigned renegotiation.
Where collectively assessed loan to individual CGUs and the rates can have a portfolios include significant levels of loan significant effect on their valuation.
The cost forbearance, portfolios are segmented to reflect the of capital percentage is generally derived from a different credit risk characteristics of forbearance Capital Asset Pricing Model, which incorporates cases, and estimates are made of the incurred losses inputs reflecting a number of financial and inherent within the forbearance portfolio segments at economic variables, including the risk-free the reporting date.
Forbearance activities take place interest rate in the country concerned and a in both retail and wholesale loan portfolios, but our premium for the risk of the business being largest concentration is in the US, in HSBC evaluated.
These variables are subject to Finances CML portfolio.
fluctuations in external market rates and The exercise of judgement requires the use of economic conditions beyond our control and assumptions which are highly subjective and very are consequently subject to uncertainty and sensitive to the risk factors, in particular to changes require the exercise of significant judgement.
in economic and credit conditions across a large A decline in a CGUs expected cash flows number of geographical areas.
Many of the factors and or an increase in its cost of capital reduces the have a high degree of interdependency and there CGUs estimated recoverable amount.
If this is is no single factor to which our loan impairment lower than the carrying value of the CGU, a charge allowances as a whole are sensitive, though they are for impairment of goodwill is recognised in our particularly sensitive to general economic and credit income statement for the year.
For example, a 10% increase in impairment allowances on collectively The accuracy of forecast cash flows is subject assessed loans and advances in North America to a high degree of uncertainty in volatile market would have increased loan impairment allowances conditions.
In such market conditions, management by US$0.4bn at 31 December 2013 2012: US$0.5bn.
retests goodwill for impairment more frequently than annually to ensure that the assumptions on which the It is possible that the outcomes within the next cash flow forecasts are based continue to reflect financial year could differ from the assumptions current market conditions and managements best used, and this could result in a material adjustment estimate of future business prospects.
to the carrying amount of loans and advances.
73 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Financial summary Critical accounting policies During 2013, no impairment of goodwill was Valuation of financial instruments identified 2012: nil.
In addition to the annual Our accounting policy for determining the fair value impairment test which was performed as at 1 July of financial instruments is described in Note 2d on 2013, management reviewed the current and expected the Financial Statements.
The best evidence of fair performance of the CGUs as at 31 December 2013 value is a quoted price for the instrument being and determined that there was no indication of measured in an actively traded market.
In the event impairment of the goodwill allocated to them, except that the market for a financial instrument is not for the GPB Europe CGU, for which reduced active, a valuation technique is used.
The majority forecast profitability triggered the re-testing of the of valuation techniques employ only observable related goodwill as at 31 December 2013.
Although market data and so the reliability of the fair value the results of the goodwill impairment testing for this measurement is high.
However, certain financial CGU are more sensitive to key assumptions used, the instruments are valued on the basis of valuation re-test of the goodwill concluded that there was no techniques that include one or more significant impairment.
Valuation techniques Note 22 on the Financial Statements includes that rely to a greater extent on unobservable inputs details of the CGUs with significant balances of require a higher level of management judgement to goodwill, states the key assumptions used to assess calculate a fair value than those based wholly on the goodwill in each of those CGUs for impairment observable inputs.
and provides a discussion of the sensitivity of the Valuation techniques used to calculate fair carrying value of goodwill to changes in key values are discussed in Note 15 on the Financial assumptions.
The main assumptions and estimates which management consider when applying a model Interests in associates with valuation techniques are: Under the equity accounting method, investments the likelihood and expected timing of future cash in associates are initially stated at cost, and are flows on the instrument.
These cash flows are adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition change in estimated based on the terms of the instrument, HSBCs share of the net assets of the associate.
An and judgement may be required when the ability investment in an associate is tested for impairment of the counterparty to service the instrument in when there is an indication that the investment may accordance with the contractual terms is in be impaired.
At 31 December 2013, the fair value of doubt.
Future cash flows may be sensitive to HSBCs investment in BoCom had been below the changes in market rates: carrying amount for approximately 20 months, apart from a short period in 2013.
The conclusion of the selecting an appropriate discount rate for impairment test, based on the assessment of the the instrument.
The determination of this rate value in use, was that the investment is not impaired.
is based on an assessment of what a market The measurement of value in use involves participant would regard as the appropriate significant judgement in estimating the present spread of the rate for the instrument over the values of cash flows expected to arise from appropriate risk-free rate: and continuing to hold the investment.
Note 21 on the judgement to determine what model to use to Financial Statements includes detailed information calculate fair value in areas where the choice on HSBCs investment in BoCom.
It provides a of valuation model is particularly subjective, description of the key assumptions used in for example, when valuing complex derivative estimating value in use, the sensitivity of the value products.
in use calculation to different assumptions and a sensitivity analysis that shows the changes in key When applying a model with unobservable assumptions that would reduce the excess of value inputs, estimates are made to reflect uncertainties in use over the carrying amount headroom to nil.
in fair values resulting from a lack of market data inputs, for example, as a result of illiquidity in 74 the market.
For these instruments, the fair value Deferred tax assets measurement is less reliable.
Inputs into valuations Our accounting policy for the recognition of deferred based on unobservable data are inherently uncertain tax assets is described in Note 2s on the Financial because there is little or no current market data Statements.
The recognition of a deferred tax asset available from which to determine the level at relies on an assessment of the probability and which an arms length transaction would occur sufficiency of future taxable profits, future reversals under normal business conditions.
However, in of existing taxable temporary differences and most cases there is some market data available ongoing tax planning strategies.
on which to base a determination of fair value, for example historical data, and the fair values The most significant judgements concern the US of most financial instruments are based on some deferred tax asset, given the recent history of losses market observable inputs even when unobservable in our US operations.
The net US deferred tax asset inputs are significant.
amounted to US$4.4bn or 59% 2012: US$4.6bn: 61% of deferred tax assets recognised on the The fair values of financial assets and liabilities Groups balance sheet.
These judgements take into of US$547bn 2012: US$718bn and US$467bn consideration the reliance placed on the use of tax 2012: US$622bn, respectively, were determined planning strategies.
using valuation techniques and represented 53% 2012: 60% and 82% 2012: 83%, respectively, of The most significant tax planning strategy is financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value.
the retention of capital in our US operations to ensure the realisation of the deferred tax assets.
The The types and amounts of adjustments made in principal strategy involves generating future taxable determining the fair value of financial instruments profits through the retention of capital in the US in measured at fair value using valuation techniques, excess of normal regulatory requirements in order and a sensitivity analysis of fair values for financial to reduce deductible funding expenses or otherwise instruments with significant unobservable inputs to deploy such capital or increase levels of taxable reasonably possible alternative assumptions, are income.
Management expects that, with this strategy, described in Note 15 on the Financial Statements.
the US operations will generate sufficient future Given the uncertainty and subjective nature profits to support the recognition of the deferred of valuing financial instruments at fair value, it is tax assets.
If HSBC Holdings were to decide not to possible that the outcomes in the next financial year provide this ongoing support, the full recovery of the could differ from the assumptions used, and this deferred tax asset may no longer be probable and could result in a material adjustment to the carrying could result in a significant reduction of the deferred amount of financial instruments measured at fair tax asset which would be recognised as a charge in value.
HSBC does not include a funding spread in the Provisions discount rate applied to the fair value measurement of uncollateralised derivatives.
The application of The accounting policy for provisions is described in such a funding fair value adjustment is under Note 2w on the Financial Statements.
Note 31 on the consideration by the financial services industry, Financial Statements discloses the major categories although no consensus has yet emerged.
In the of provisions recognised.
The closing balance of future, and possibly in 2014, HSBC may adopt a provisions amounted to US$5.2bn 2012: funding fair value adjustment to reflect funding of US$5.3bn, of which US$1.8bn 2012: US$1.7bn uncollateralised derivatives at rates other than related to legal proceedings and regulatory matters interbank offer rates.
and US$2.4bn 2012: US$2.4bn related to customer remediation.
75 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Financial summary Critical accounting policies Global businesses Summary Judgement is involved in determining whether possible outcomes for individual matters.
It is also a present obligation exists and in estimating the not practicable to meaningfully quantify ranges probability, timing and amount of any outflows.
of potential outcomes in aggregate for these types Professional expert advice is taken on litigation of provisions because of the diverse nature and provisions, property provisions including onerous circumstances of such matters and the wide range of contracts and similar liabilities.
For a detailed description of the nature of uncertainties and assumptions and the Provisions for legal proceedings and regulatory effect on the amount and timing of possible cash matters typically require a higher degree of outflows on material matters, see Note 43 on the judgement than other types of provisions.
matters are at an early stage, accounting judgements can be difficult because of the high degree of Provisions for customer remediation also require uncertainty associated with determining whether significant levels of estimation and judgement.
The a present obligation exists, and estimating the amounts of provisions recognised depend on a probability and amount of any outflows that may number of different assumptions, for example, the arise.
As matters progress through various stages volume of inbound complaints, the projected period of development, management and legal advisers of inbound complaint volumes, the decay rate of evaluate on an ongoing basis whether provisions complaint volumes, the population identified as should be recognised and their estimated amounts, systemically mis-sold and the number of policies revising previous judgements and estimates as per customer complaint.
At more advanced stages, it is typically In view of the inherent uncertainties and the possible to make judgements and estimates around high level of subjectivity involved in the recognition a better defined set of possible outcomes.
However, and measurement of provisions, it is possible that such judgements can be very difficult and the the outcomes in the next financial year could differ amount of any provision can be very sensitive from those on which managements estimates are to the assumptions used.
There could be a wide based, resulting in materially different amounts of range of possible outcomes for any pending legal provisions recognised and outflows of economic proceedings, investigations or inquiries.
As a result, benefits from those estimated by management for it is often not practicable to quantify a range of the purposes of the 2013 Financial Statements.
