2 Included in the capital base of HSBC as tier 1 capital in accordance with the rules and guidance in GENPRU.
Dividends on the HSBC Holdings non-cumulative dollar preference shares in issue dollar preference shares are paid quarterly at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board of Directors.
The Board of Directors will not declare a dividend on the dollar preference shares if payment of the dividend would cause HSBC Holdings not to meet the applicable capital adequacy requirements of the PRA or the profit of HSBC Holdings available for distribution as dividends is not sufficient to enable HSBC Holdings to pay in full both dividends on the dollar preference shares and dividends on any other shares that are scheduled to be paid on the same date and that have an equal right to dividends.
HSBC Holdings may not declare or pay dividends on any class of its shares ranking lower in the right to dividends than the dollar preference shares nor redeem nor purchase in any manner any of its other shares ranking equal with or lower than the dollar preference shares unless it has paid in full, or set aside an amount to provide for payment in full, the dividends on the dollar preference shares for the then current dividend period.
The dollar preference shares carry no rights to conversion into ordinary shares of HSBC Holdings.
Holders of the dollar preference shares will only be entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of shareholders of HSBC Holdings if the dividend payable on the dollar preference shares has not been paid in full for four consecutive dividend payment dates.
In such circumstances, holders of the dollar preference shares will be entitled to vote on all matters put to general meetings until such time as HSBC Holdings has paid a full dividend on the dollar preference shares.
HSBC Holdings may redeem the dollar preference shares in whole at any time on or after 16 December 2010, subject to prior notification to the PRA.
HSBC Holdings non-cumulative preference share of 0.01 The one non-cumulative sterling preference share of 0.01 in issue sterling preference share has been in issue since 29 December 2010 and is held by a subsidiary of HSBC Holdings.
Dividends on the sterling preference share are paid quarterly at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board.
The sterling preference share carries no rights of conversion into ordinary shares of HSBC Holdings and no rights to attend and vote at general meetings of shareholders of HSBC Holdings.
HSBC Holdings may redeem it in whole at any time at the option of the Company.
Other equity instruments Other equity instruments which have been included in the capital base of HSBC were issued in accordance with the rules and guidance in the PRAs GENPRU.
These securities may be called and redeemed by HSBC subject to prior notification to the PRA.
If not redeemed at the first call date interest coupons remain unchanged.
544 Tier 1 capital securities Tier 1 capital securities are perpetual subordinated securities on which coupon payments may be deferred at the discretion of HSBC Holdings.
While any coupon payments are unpaid or deferred, HSBC Holdings will not declare, pay dividends or make distributions or similar periodic payments in respect of, or repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire any securities of lower or equal rank.
Such securities do not generally carry voting rights but rank higher than ordinary shares for coupon payments and in the event of a winding-up.
At HSBC Holdings discretion, and subject to certain conditions being satisfied, the capital securities may be exchanged on any coupon payment date for non-cumulative preference shares to be issued by HSBC Holdings and ranking pari passu with the dollar and sterling preference shares in issue.
The preference shares would be issued at a nominal value of US$0.01 per share and a premium of US$24.99 per share, with both such amounts being subscribed and fully paid.
HSBCs qualifying tier 1 capital securities in issue which are accounted for in equity At 31 December 2013 First call 2012 date US$m US$m US$2,200m 8.125% perpetual subordinated capital securities............................................. Apr 2013 2,133 2,133 US$3,800m 8.00% perpetual subordinated capital securities, Series 2................................ Dec 2015 3,718 3,718 5,851 5,851 Shares under option For details of the options outstanding to subscribe for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan, the HSBC Share Plan and HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans, see Note 7.
The exercise price payable for each option was adjusted using the same exchange ratio.
During 2012 and 2013 there were no options exercised over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares and no shares were delivered from the HSBC Bank of Bermuda Employee Benefit Trust 2004.
During 2013, options over 149,924 2012: 880,983 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares lapsed.
At 31 December 2013, the HSBC Bank of Bermuda Employee Benefit Trust 2004 held nil 2012: 2,108,830 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
545 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
