This led to a reduction in the amount of reverse repos classified as trading assets.
15 Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value The accounting policies which determine the classification of financial instruments and the use of assumptions and estimation in valuing them are described on pages 432 to 450 and page 74.
The fair value of financial instruments is generally measured on the basis of the individual financial instrument.
However, when HSBC manages a group of financial assets and financial liabilities on the basis of its net exposure to either market risks or credit risk, it measures the fair value of the group of financial instruments on a net basis, but presents the underlying financial assets and liabilities separately in the financial statements, unless they satisfy the IFRSs offsetting criteria as described on page 442.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The following table sets out the financial instruments carried at fair value.
Movement in derivative balances is described in Note 18.
482 Transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair values Assets Liabilities Designated Designated at fair value at fair value Available Held for through Held for through for sale trading profit or loss Derivatives trading profit or loss Derivatives US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2013 Transfers from Level 1 to Level 2..... 110 24,140 18 35,274 17 Transfers from Level 2 to Level 1..... 1,275 1,264 423 Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are deemed to occur at the end of each semi-annual reporting period.
Transfers from Level 1 to Level 2 reflect the reclassification of settlement balances and cash collateral following reassessment of the application of levelling criteria to these balances.
Transfers from Level 2 to Level 1 related to increased liquidity in certain emerging market government bonds.
Control framework Fair values are subject to a control framework designed to ensure that they are either determined or validated by a function independent of the risk-taker.
For all financial instruments where fair values are determined by reference to externally quoted prices or observable pricing inputs to models, independent price determination or validation is utilised.
In inactive markets, direct observation of a traded price may not be possible.
In these circumstances, HSBC will source alternative market information to validate the financial instruments fair value, with greater weight given to information that is considered to be more relevant and reliable.
The factors that are considered in this regard are, inter alia: the extent to which prices may be expected to represent genuine traded or tradeable prices: the degree of similarity between financial instruments: the degree of consistency between different sources: the process followed by the pricing provider to derive the data: the elapsed time between the date to which the market data relates and the balance sheet date: and the manner in which the data was sourced.
For fair values determined using valuation models, the control framework may include, as applicable, development or validation by independent support functions of i the logic within valuation models: ii the inputs to those models: iii any adjustments required outside the valuation models: and iv where possible, model outputs.
Valuation models are subject to a process of due diligence and calibration before becoming operational and are calibrated against external market data on an ongoing basis.
The majority of financial instruments measured at fair value are in GB&M.
GB&Ms fair value governance structure is illustrated below as an example: Group Finance Director Finance Valuation Committees Valuation Committee Review Group Responsible for determining Overseen by Consist of valuation experts fair value: and report Chaired by Global Head of from several independent all valuations Establishing accounting Product Control, support functions considered Provides policies for fair value Global Markets product control, market risk results to have Establishing procedures material management, quantitative Consists of Heads of governing valuation subjectivity risk and valuation group Global Markets, Finance Ensuring compliance and finance, in addition and Risk functions with all relevant to senior management accounting standards 483 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued 15 Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value Determination of fair value Fair values are determined according to the following hierarchy: Level 1 quoted market price: financial instruments with quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets that HSBC can access at the measurement date.
Level 2 valuation technique using observable inputs: financial instruments with quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets or quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in inactive markets and financial instruments valued using models where all significant inputs are observable.
Level 3 valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs: financial instruments valued using valuation techniques where one or more significant inputs are unobservable.
The best evidence of fair value is a quoted price in an actively traded market.
The fair values of financial instruments that are quoted in active markets are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices for liabilities issued.
Where a financial instrument has a quoted price in an active market, the fair value of the total holding of the financial instrument is calculated as the product of the number of units and quoted price.
In the event that the market for a financial instrument is not active, a valuation technique is used.
The judgement as to whether a market is active may include, but is not restricted to, the consideration of factors such as the magnitude and frequency of trading activity, the availability of prices and the size of bid offer spreads.
The bid offer spread represents the difference in prices at which a market participant would be willing to buy compared with the price at which they would be willing to sell.
In inactive markets, obtaining assurance that the transaction price provides evidence of fair value or determining the adjustments to transaction prices that are necessary to measure the fair value of the instrument requires additional work during the valuation process.
Valuation techniques Valuation techniques incorporate assumptions about factors that other market participants would use in their valuations.
A range of valuation techniques is employed, dependent on the instrument type and available market data.
Most valuation techniques are based upon discounted cash flow analyses, in which expected future cash flows are calculated and discounted to present value using a discounting curve.
Prior to considering credit risk, the expected future cash flows may be known, as would be the case for the fixed leg of an interest rate swap, or may be uncertain and require projection, as would be the case for the floating leg of an interest rate swap.
Projection utilises market forward curves, if available.
In option models, the probability of different potential future outcomes must be considered.
In addition, the value of some products are dependent on more than one market factor, and in these cases it will typically be necessary to consider how movements in one market factor may affect the other market factors.
The model inputs necessary to perform such calculations include interest rate yield curves, exchange rates, volatilities, correlations, prepayment and default rates.
For interest rate derivatives with collateralised counterparties and in significant currencies, HSBC uses a discounting curve that reflects the overnight interest rate OIS discounting.
The majority of valuation techniques employ only observable market data.
However, certain financial instruments are valued on the basis of valuation techniques that feature one or more significant market inputs that are unobservable, and for them the measurement of fair value is more judgemental.
An instrument in its entirety is classified as valued using significant unobservable inputs if, in the opinion of management, a significant proportion of the instruments inception profit day 1 gain or loss or greater than 5% of the instruments valuation is driven by unobservable inputs.
Unobservable in this context means that there is little or no current market data available from which to determine the price at which an arms length transaction would be likely to occur.
It generally does not mean that there is no data available at all upon which to base a determination of fair value consensus pricing data may, for example, be used.
All fair value adjustments are included within the levelling determination.
In certain circumstances, HSBC records its own debt in issue at fair value, based on quoted prices in an active market for the specific instrument concerned, where available.
An example of this is where own debt in issue is hedged with interest rate derivatives.
When quoted market prices are unavailable, the own debt in issue is valued using valuation techniques, the inputs for which are either based upon quoted prices in an inactive market for the instrument, or are estimated by comparison with quoted prices in an active market for similar instruments.
In both cases, the fair value includes the effect of applying the credit spread which is appropriate to HSBCs liabilities.
The change in fair value of issued debt securities attributable to the Groups own credit spread is computed as follows: for each security at each reporting date, an externally verifiable price is obtained or a price is derived using credit spreads for similar 484 securities for the same issuer.
Then, using discounted cash flow, each security is valued using a Libor-based discount curve.
The difference in the valuations is attributable to the Groups own credit spread.
This methodology is applied consistently across all securities.
Structured notes issued and certain other hybrid instrument liabilities are included within trading liabilities and are measured at fair value.
The credit spread applied to these instruments is derived from the spreads at which HSBC issues structured notes.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the credit spread of liabilities issued by HSBC reverse over the contractual life of the debt, provided that the debt is not repaid at a premium or a discount.
Changes in fair value are generally subject to a profit and loss analysis process.
This process disaggregates changes in fair value into three high level categories: i portfolio changes, such as new transactions or maturing transactions, ii market movements, such as changes in foreign exchange rates or equity prices, and iii other, such as changes in fair value adjustments, discussed below.
Fair value adjustments Fair value adjustments are adopted when HSBC considers that there are additional factors that would be considered by a market participant which are not incorporated within the valuation model.
HSBC classifies fair value adjustments as either risk-related or model-related.
The majority of these adjustments relate to GB&M.
Movements in the level of fair value adjustments do not necessarily result in the recognition of profits or losses within the income statement.
For example, as models are enhanced, fair value adjustments may no longer be required.
Similarly, fair value adjustments will decrease when the related positions are unwound, but this may not result in profit or loss.
The most significant movement was a decline of US$473m in respect of the credit valuation adjustment, as a result of both reduced derivative counterparty exposures and general narrowing of CDS spreads.
Risk-related adjustments Bid-offer IFRS 13 requires use of the price within the bid-offer spread that is most representative of fair value.
Valuation models will typically generate mid-market values.
The bid-offer adjustment reflects the extent to which bid-offer costs would be incurred if substantially all residual net portfolio market risks were closed using available hedging instruments or by disposing of or unwinding the position.
485 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued 15 Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value Uncertainty Certain model inputs may be less readily determinable from market data, and or the choice of model itself may be more subjective.
In these circumstances, there exists a range of possible values that the financial instrument or market parameter may assume and an adjustment may be necessary to reflect the likelihood that in estimating the fair value of the financial instrument, market participants would adopt more conservative values for uncertain parameters and or model assumptions than those used in the valuation model.
Credit valuation adjustment The credit valuation adjustment is an adjustment to the valuation of OTC derivative contracts to reflect within fair value the possibility that the counterparty may default and that HSBC may not receive the full market value of the transactions see below.
Debit valuation adjustment The debit valuation adjustment is an adjustment to the valuation of OTC derivative contracts to reflect within fair value the possibility that HSBC may default, and that HSBC may not pay full market value of the transactions see below.
Model-related adjustments Model limitation Models used for portfolio valuation purposes may be based upon a simplifying set of assumptions that do not capture all material market characteristics.
Additionally, markets evolve, and models that were adequate in the past may require development to capture all material market characteristics in current market conditions.
In these circumstances, model limitation adjustments are adopted.
As model development progresses, model limitations are addressed within the valuation models and a model limitation adjustment is no longer needed.
Inception profit Day 1 P&L reserves Inception profit adjustments are adopted when the fair value estimated by a valuation model is based on one or more significant unobservable inputs.
The accounting for inception profit adjustments is discussed on page 433.
An analysis of the movement in the deferred Day 1 P&L reserve is provided on page 501. Credit valuation adjustment debit valuation adjustment methodology HSBC calculates a separate credit valuation adjustment CVA and debit valuation adjustment DVA for each HSBC legal entity, and within each entity for each counterparty to which the entity has exposure.
The calculation of the monoline credit valuation adjustment is described on page 208.
HSBC calculates the CVA by applying the probability of default PD of the counterparty, conditional on the nondefault of HSBC, to HSBCs expected positive exposure to the counterparty and multiplying the result by the loss expected in the event of default.
Conversely, HSBC calculates the DVA by applying the PD of HSBC, conditional on the non-default of the counterparty, to the expected positive exposure of the counterparty to HSBC and multiplying by the loss expected in the event of default.
Both calculations are performed over the life of the potential exposure.
For most products HSBC uses a simulation methodology to calculate the expected positive exposure to a counterparty.
This incorporates a range of potential exposures across the portfolio of transactions with the counterparty over the life of the portfolio.
The simulation methodology includes credit mitigants such as counterparty netting agreements and collateral agreements with the counterparty.
A standard loss given default LGD assumption of 60% is generally adopted for developed market exposures, and 75% for emerging market exposures.
Alternative loss given default assumptions may be adopted when both the nature of the exposure and the available data support this.
For certain types of exotic derivatives where the products are not currently supported by the simulation, or for derivative exposures in smaller trading locations where the simulation tool is not yet available, HSBC adopts alternative methodologies.
These may involve mapping to the results for similar products from the simulation tool or, where the mapping approach is not appropriate, using a simplified methodology which generally follows the same principles as the simulation methodology.
The calculation is applied at a trade level, with more limited recognition of credit mitigants such as netting or collateral agreements than is used in the simulation methodology.
486 The methodologies do not, in general, account for wrong-way risk.
Wrong-way risk arises when the underlying value of the derivative prior to any CVA is positively correlated to the probability of default by the counterparty.
When there is significant wrong-way risk, a trade-specific approach is applied to reflect the wrong-way risk within the valuation.
With the exception of certain central clearing parties, HSBC includes all third-party counterparties in the CVA and DVA calculations and does not net these adjustments across Group entities.
During the year, HSBC refined the methodologies used to calculate the CVA and DVA to more accurately reflect the impact of ratings downgrade triggers on credit mitigation.
HSBC reviews and refines the CVA and DVA methodologies on an ongoing basis.
Valuation of uncollateralised derivatives HSBC values uncollateralised derivatives by discounting expected future cash flows at a benchmark interest rate, typically Libor or its equivalent.
This approach has historically been adopted across the industry, and has therefore been an appropriate basis for fair value.
HSBC and other industry participants are currently considering whether this approach appropriately reflects the manner in which the derivatives are funded, which may occur at rates other than interbank offer rates.
No consensus has yet emerged on how such funding should be reflected in the fair value measurement for uncollateralised derivatives.
In the future, and possibly in 2014, HSBC may adopt a funding fair value adjustment to reflect funding of uncollateralised derivatives at rates other than interbank offer rates.
Level 3 instruments are present in both ongoing and legacy businesses.
Loans held for securitisation, derivatives with monolines, certain other derivatives and all level 3 asset-backed securities are legacy.
HSBC has the capability to hold these positions.
Private equity and strategic investments HSBCs private equity and strategic investments are generally classified as available for sale and are not traded in active markets.
In the absence of an active market, an investments fair value is estimated on the basis of an analysis of the investees financial position and results, risk profile, prospects and other factors, as well as by reference to market valuations for similar entities quoted in an active market, or the price at which similar companies have changed ownership.
487 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued 15 Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value Asset-backed securities While quoted market prices are generally used to determine the fair value of these securities, valuation models are used to substantiate the reliability of the limited market data available and to identify whether any adjustments to quoted market prices are required.
For ABSs including residential MBSs, the valuation uses an industry standard model and the assumptions relating to prepayment speeds, default rates and loss severity based on collateral type, and performance, as appropriate.
The valuations output is benchmarked for consistency against observable data for securities of a similar nature.
Loans, including leveraged finance and loans held for securitisation Loans held at fair value are valued from broker quotes and or market data consensus providers when available.
In the absence of an observable market, the fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
These techniques include discounted cash flow models, which incorporate assumptions regarding an appropriate credit spread for the loan, derived from other market instruments issued by the same or comparable entities.
Structured notes The fair value of structured notes valued using a valuation technique is derived from the fair value of the underlying debt security, and the fair value of the embedded derivative is determined as described in the paragraph below on derivatives.
Trading liabilities valued using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs principally comprised equity-linked structured notes which are issued by HSBC and provide the counterparty with a return that is linked to the performance of certain equity securities, and other portfolios.
The notes are classified as Level 3 due to the unobservability of parameters such as long-dated equity volatilities and correlations between equity prices, between equity prices and interest rates and between interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
Derivatives OTC i. e. non-exchange traded derivatives are valued using valuation models.
Valuation models calculate the present value of expected future cash flows, based upon no-arbitrage principles.
For many vanilla derivative products, such as interest rate swaps and European options, the modelling approaches used are standard across the industry.
For more complex derivative products, there may be some differences in market practice.
Inputs to valuation models are determined from observable market data wherever possible, including prices available from exchanges, dealers, brokers or providers of consensus pricing.
Certain inputs may not be observable in the market directly, but can be determined from observable prices via model calibration procedures or estimated from historical data or other sources.
Examples of inputs that may be unobservable include volatility surfaces, in whole or in part, for less commonly traded option products, and correlations between market factors such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices.
The valuation of derivatives with monolines is discussed on page 208.
Derivative products valued using valuation techniques with significant unobservable inputs included certain types of correlation products, such as foreign exchange basket options, equity basket options, foreign exchange interest rate hybrid transactions and long-dated option transactions.
Examples of the latter are equity options, interest rate and foreign exchange options and certain credit derivatives.
Credit derivatives include certain tranched CDS transactions.
489 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued 15 Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value Purchases of Level 3 available-for-sale assets primarily reflect the acquisition of certain less liquid emerging market government and corporate debt.
Transfers in of Level 3 available-for-sale securities reflect decreased confidence in the pricing of certain ABS assets.
This is offset by transfers out reflecting increased confidence in the pricing of certain other ABS assets and increased liquidity in certain emerging market sovereign and corporate debt.
Sales of Level 3 trading assets reflect the unwind of certain legacy monoline and structured credit exposures.
New issuances of trading liabilities reflect structured note issuances, predominantly equity-linked notes.
Effect of changes in significant unobservable assumptions to reasonably possible alternatives The following table shows the sensitivity of Level 3 fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions: Sensitivity of fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions Reflected in other Reflected in profit or loss comprehensive income Favourable Unfavourable Favourable Unfavourable changes changes changes changes US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2013 1 Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities....................... 350 285 Financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value............... 32 51 Financial investments: available for sale..................................... 434 673 382 336 434 673 At 31 December 2012 1 Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities........................ 465 384 Financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value................ 41 41 Financial investments: available for sale...................................... 680 710 506 425 680 710 1 Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities are presented as one category to reflect the manner in which these financial instruments are risk-managed.
The decrease in the effect of favourable and unfavourable changes in significant unobservable inputs in relation to derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities reflects a reduction in exposures and reduced market data dispersion as market volatility generally declined over the year.
The reduction in the effect of favourable changes in financial investments primarily reflects a decline in private equity, following a reassessment of potential upside.
The sensitivity analysis aims to measure a range of fair values consistent with the application of a 95% confidence interval.
Methodologies take account of the nature of the valuation technique employed, as well as the availability and reliability of 490 observable proxy and historical data.
When the available data is not amenable to statistical analysis, the quantification of uncertainty is judgemental, but remains guided by the 95% confidence interval.
When the fair value of a financial instrument is affected by more than one unobservable assumption, the above table reflects the most favourable or the most unfavourable change from varying the assumptions individually.
Key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments The table below lists key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments, and provides the range of those inputs as at 31 December 2013.
The core range of inputs is the estimated range within which 90% of the inputs fall.
A further description of the categories of key unobservable inputs is given below.
Private equity including strategic investments HSBCs private equity and strategic investments are generally classified as available for sale and are not traded in active markets.
Given the bespoke nature of the analysis in respect of each holding, it is not practical to quote a range of key unobservable inputs.
Prepayment rates Prepayment rates are a measure of the anticipated future speed at which a loan portfolio will be repaid in advance of the due date.
Prepayment rates are an important input into modelled values of ABSs.
A modelled price may be used where insufficient observable market prices exist to enable a market price to be determined directly.
Prepayment rates are also an important input into the valuation of derivatives linked to securitisations.
For example, so-called securitisation swaps have a notional value that is linked to the size of the outstanding loan portfolio in a securitisation, which may fall as prepayments occur.
Prepayment rates vary according to the nature of the loan portfolio, and expectations of future market conditions.
For example, current prepayment rates in US residential mortgage-backed securities would generally be expected to rise as the US economy improves.
Prepayment rates may be estimated using a variety of evidence, such as prepayment rates implied from proxy observable security prices, current or historic prepayment rates and macro-economic modelling.
Market proxy Market proxy pricing may be used for an instrument for which specific market pricing is not available, but evidence is available in respect of instruments that have some characteristics in common.
In some cases it might be possible to identify a specific proxy, but more generally evidence across a wider range of instruments will be used to understand the factors that influence current market pricing and the manner of that influence.
For example, in the collateralised loan obligation market it may be possible to establish that A-rated securities exhibit prices in a range, and to isolate key factors that influence position within the range.
Application of this to a specific A-rated security within HSBCs portfolio allows assignment of a price.
The range of prices used as inputs into a market proxy pricing methodology may therefore be wide.
This range is not indicative of the uncertainty associated with the price derived for an individual security.
Volatility Volatility is a measure of the anticipated future variability of a market price.
Volatility tends to increase in stressed market conditions, and decrease in calmer market conditions.
Volatility is an important input in the pricing of options.
In general, the higher the volatility, the more expensive the option will be.
This reflects both the higher probability of an increased return from the option, and the potentially higher costs that HSBC may incur in hedging the risks associated with the option.
If option prices become more expensive, this will increase the value of HSBCs long option positions i. e. the positions in which HSBC has purchased options, while HSBCs short option positions i. e. the positions in which HSBC has sold options will suffer losses.
2 Includes a range of smaller asset holdings.
Volatility varies by underlying reference market price, and by strike and maturity of the option.
Volatility also varies over time.
As a result, it is difficult to make general statements regarding volatility levels.
For example, while it is generally the case that foreign exchange volatilities are lower than equity volatilities, there may be examples in particular currency pairs or for particular equities where this is not the case.
Certain volatilities, typically those of a longer-dated nature, are unobservable.
The unobservable volatility is then estimated from observable data.
For example, longer-dated volatilities may be extrapolated from shorter-dated volatilities.
The range of unobservable volatilities quoted in the table reflects the wide variation in volatility inputs by reference market price.
For example, foreign exchange volatilities for a pegged currency may be very low, whereas for nonmanaged currencies the foreign exchange volatility may be higher.
As a further example, volatilities for deep-in-themoney or  equity options may be significantly higher than at-the-money options.
The core range is significantly narrower than the full range because these examples with extreme volatilities occur relatively rarely within the HSBC portfolio.
For any single unobservable volatility, the uncertainty in the volatility determination is significantly less than the range quoted above.
Correlation Correlation is a measure of the inter-relationship between two market prices.
Correlation is a number between minus one and one.
A positive correlation implies that the two market prices tend to move in the same direction, with a correlation of one implying that they always move in the same direction.
A negative correlation implies that the two market prices tend to move in opposite directions, with a correlation of minus one implying that the two market prices always move in opposite directions.
Correlation is used to value more complex instruments where the payout is dependent upon more than one market price.
For example, an equity basket option has a payout that is dependent upon the performance of a basket of single stocks, and the correlation between the price movements of those stocks will be an input to the valuation.
This is referred to as equity-equity correlation.
There is a wide range of instruments for which correlation is an input, and consequently a wide range of both same-asset correlations e. g. equity-equity correlation and cross-asset correlations e. g. foreign exchange rate-interest rate correlation used.
In general, the range of same-asset correlations will be narrower than the range of cross-asset correlations.
Unobservable correlations may be estimated on the basis of a range of evidence, including consensus pricing services, HSBC trade prices, proxy correlations and examination of historical price relationships.
The range of unobservable correlations quoted in the table reflects the wide variation in correlation inputs by market price pair.
For any single unobservable correlation, the uncertainty in the correlation determination is likely to be less than the range quoted above.
Credit spread Credit spread is the premium over a benchmark interest rate required by the market to accept lower credit quality.
In a discounted cash flow model, the credit spread increases the discount factors applied to future cash flows, thereby reducing the value of an asset.
Credit spreads may be implied from market prices.
Credit spreads may not be observable in more illiquid markets.
Inter-relationships between key unobservable inputs Key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments may not be independent of each other.
As described above, market variables may be correlated.
This correlation typically reflects the manner in which different markets tend to react to macroeconomic or other events.
For example, improving economic conditions may lead to a risk on market, in which prices of risky assets such as equities and high yield bonds rise, while safe haven assets such as gold and US Treasuries decline.
Furthermore, the impact of changing market variables upon the HSBC portfolio will depend on HSBCs net risk position in respect of each variable.
For example, increasing high-yield bond prices will benefit long high-yield bond positions, but the value of any credit derivative protection held against these bonds will fall.
493 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued 15 Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value 16 Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value HSBC Holdings The following table provides an analysis of the basis for valuing financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value in the financial statements: Basis of valuing HSBC Holdings financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value At 31 December 2013 2012 US$m US$m Valuation technique using observable inputs: Level 2 Assets Derivatives........................................................................................................................................... 2,789 3,768 Available for sale................................................................................................................................. 1,210 1,208 Liabilities Designated at fair value........................................................................................................................ 21,027 23,195 Derivatives........................................................................................................................................... 704 760 Financial instruments measured at fair value Level 3 Financial instruments measured using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs Level 3 comprised fixed-rate preferred securities and senior notes purchased from HSBC undertakings.
The unobservable elements of the valuation technique included the use of implied credit spreads and simplified bond pricing assumptions.
