24 Investments in subsidiaries Principal subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings At 31 December 2013 HSBCs Country of interest in Issued incorporation equity capital equity Share or registration % capital class Europe HSBC Asset Finance UK Limited............................... England 100 265m Ordinary 1 HSBC Bank A.
US 100 Common US$0.05 Latin America HSBC Bank Argentina S. A............................................ Argentina 99.99 ARS1,244m OrdinaryA ARS1.00 OrdinaryB ARS1.00 HSBC Bank Brasil S. A. Banco Mltiplo.................... Brazil 100 BRL6,402m Shares of no par value HSBC Mexico, S. A. Institucin fide Banca Mltiple, Grupo Financiero HSBC............................................ Mexico 99.99 MXN5,681m Ordinary MXN2.00 1 Listed in Hong Kong.
6 Preference shares of nil par value.
7 Issued equity capital is less than US$1m.
Details of the debt, subordinated debt and preference shares issued by the principal subsidiaries to parties external to the Group are included in the Notes 28 Debt securities in issue, 32 Subordinated liabilities and 37 Non-controlling interests, respectively.
All the above subsidiaries are included in the HSBC consolidated financial statements.
Details of all HSBC subsidiaries, as required under Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006, will be annexed to the next Annual Return of HSBC Holdings filed with the UK Registrar of Companies.
The principal countries of operation are the same as the countries of incorporation except for HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, which operates mainly in the Middle East and North Africa, and HSBC Life International Limited, which operates mainly in Hong Kong.
HSBC is structured as a network of regional banks and locally incorporated regulated banking entities.
Each bank is separately capitalised in accordance with applicable prudential requirements and maintains a capital buffer consistent 519 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued 24 Investments in subsidiaries 25 Assets held for sale and other assets with the Groups risk appetite for the relevant country or region.
Within the legal entity structure, HSBC Holdings is the primary provider of equity capital to its subsidiaries and non-equity capital where necessary.
These investments are substantially funded by HSBC Holdings own capital issuance and profit retention.
During 2013 and 2012, none of the Groups subsidiaries experienced significant restrictions on paying dividends or repaying loans and advances.
The ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance monies to HSBC Holdings depends on, among other things, their respective local regulatory capital and banking requirements, statutory reserves, and financial and operating performance.
The amount of guarantees by HSBC Holdings in favour of other HSBC Group entities is set out in Note 40.
For further details, see Note 42.
In each of the above cases, HSBC controls and consolidates an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Disposals On 19 February 2013, we announced an agreement to sell HSBC Bank Panama S. A. resulting in the classification of the associated assets and liabilities as a disposal group held for sale.
On 25 October 2013, we completed the disposal for total cash consideration of US$2.2bn, realising a gain on disposal of US$1.1bn within Other income.
