HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued 32 Subordinated liabilities 33 Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments 4 The interest rate payable after June 2015 is the sum of the three-month Euribor plus 0.93%.
5 This subordinated note is measured at amortised cost in HSBC Holdings, where the interest rate risk is hedged using a fair value hedge, while it is measured at fair value in the Group.
6 In June 2013, HSBC Holdings called its US$1,250m 4.61% fixed floating subordinated notes at par.
7 In January 2014, HSBC Holdings gave notice that it will call and redeem the 1,400m 5.3687% fixed floating subordinated notes at par in March 2014.
33 Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments The table on page 533 provides an analysis of consolidated total assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments by residual contractual maturity at the balance sheet date.
Asset and liability balances are included in the maturity analysis as follows: except for reverse repos, repos and debt securities in issue, trading assets and liabilities including trading derivatives are included in the Due not more than 1 month time bucket, and not by contractual maturity because trading balances are typically held for short periods of time: financial assets and liabilities with no contractual maturity such as equity securities are included in the Due over 5 years time bucket.
Undated or perpetual instruments are classified based on the contractual notice period which the counterparty of the instrument is entitled to give.
Where there is no contractual notice period, undated or perpetual contracts are included in the Due over 5 years time bucket: non-financial assets and liabilities with no contractual maturity such as property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, current and deferred tax assets and liabilities and retirement benefit liabilities are included in the Due over 5 years time bucket: financial instruments included within assets and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale are classified on the basis of the contractual maturity of the underlying instruments and not on the basis of the disposal transaction: and liabilities under insurance contracts are included in the Due over 5 years time bucket.
Liabilities under investment contracts are classified in accordance with their contractual maturity.
Undated investment contracts are classified based on the contractual notice period investors are entitled to give.
Where there is no contractual notice period, undated contracts are included in the Due over 5 years time bucket.
Loan and other credit-related commitments are classified on the basis of the earliest date they can be drawn down.
