On transfer to held for sale, a write down of the disposal group by US$279m was recorded and allocated to goodwill.
Following the later decision to retain the private banking operations in Monaco, the reclassification of the private banking operations in Monaco out of held for sale resulted in the reinstatement of the remaining goodwill.
512 Impairment testing Timing of impairment testing HSBCs impairment test in respect of goodwill allocated to each cash-generating unit CGU is performed as at 1 July each year.
In line with the accounting policy described in Note 2 p, goodwill is also retested for impairment whenever there is an indication that it may be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, the Groups CGUs are based on geographical regions subdivided by global businesses.
The CGUs represent the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
For the Global Private Banking Europe CGU, reduced forecast cash flows in managements latest approved plan was an indicator of goodwill impairment leading to a retest at 31 December 2013.
For other CGUs there was no indication of impairment in the period to 31 December 2013 and therefore goodwill has not been retested since 1 July 2013.
Basis of the recoverable amount value in use or fair value less costs to sell The recoverable amount of all CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated was equal to its value in use VIU at each respective testing date for 2012 and 2013.
For each significant CGU, the VIU is calculated by discounting managements cash flow projections for the CGU.
The discount rate used is based on the cost of capital HSBC allocates to investments in the countries within which the CGU operates.
The long-term growth rate is used to extrapolate the cash flows in perpetuity because of the long-term perspective within the Group of the business units making up the CGUs.
For the goodwill impairment test conducted at 1 July 2013, managements cash flow projections until the end of 2017 were used.
For the retest of goodwill impairment for the Global Private Banking Europe CGU at 31 December 2013, managements cash flow projections until the end of 2018 were used.
The Group CGUs do not carry on their balance sheets any significant intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, other than goodwill.
Nominal long-term growth rate: this growth rate reflects GDP and inflation for the countries within which the CGU operates.
The rates are based on IMF forecast growth rates as these rates are regarded as the most relevant estimate of likely future trends.
The rates used for 2013 and 2012 do not exceed the long-term growth rate for the countries within which the CGU operates.
513 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued 22 Goodwill and intangible assets Discount rate: the discount rate used to discount the cash flows is based on the cost of capital assigned to each CGU, which is derived using a CAPM.
The CAPM depends on inputs reflecting a number of financial and economic variables including the risk-free rate and a premium to reflect the inherent risk of the business being evaluated.
These variables are based on the markets assessment of the economic variables and managements judgement.
In addition, for the purposes of testing goodwill for impairment, management supplements this process by comparing the discount rates derived using the internally generated CAPM with cost of capital rates produced by external sources.
HSBC uses externally-sourced cost of capital rates where, in managements judgement, those rates reflect more accurately the current market and economic conditions.
For 2013 and 2012, internal costs of capital rates were consistent with externally-sourced rates.
Managements judgement in estimating the cash flows of a CGU: the cash flow projections for each CGU are based on plans approved by the Group Management Board.
The key assumptions in addition to the discount rate and nominal long-term growth rate for each significant CGU are discussed below.
Global Private Banking Europe: the cash flow forecast for GBP Europe primarily reflects the repositioning of the business that is underway to concentrate on clients aligned with the Groups priorities.
Revenues in GPB Europe are predominately generated through HSBCs client relationships and the key assumption in the cash flow forecast is the level of assets under management and profitability therein following the strategic repositioning.
The cash flow forecast includes increased profitability in GPB Europe which is dependent on management achieving the planned strategic repositioning.
At 1 July 2013, GPB Europe had an excess of recoverable amount over carrying amount headroom of US$4.5bn.
At 31 December 2013, headroom was US$0.4bn based on goodwill at that point of US$4.1bn.
The change in goodwill carrying value between 1 July 2013 and 31 December 2013 arises from the partial reinstatement of goodwill classified as held for sale at 1 July 2013 as well as retranslating goodwill into the presentation currency of the group.
For the test of goodwill impairment at 31 December 2013 for GPB Europe, in addition to updated cash flow forecasts the nominal long-term growth rate was updated to 3.3% and the discount rate updated to 7.6%.
The following changes to the key assumptions used in the value in use calculation would be necessary in order to reduce headroom to nil: Key assumption Change to key assumption to reduce headroom to nil Discount rate Increase by 23 basis points Nominal growth rate beyond initial cash flow projection Decrease by 27 basis points Cash flow projection over the forecast period Decrease by 5.2% Retail Banking and Wealth Management Europe and Commercial Banking Europe: the assumptions included in the cash flow projections for RBWM Europe and CMB Europe reflect the economic environment and financial outlook of the European countries within these two CGUs.
Key assumptions include the level of interest rates, nominal GDP growth, competitors positions within the market and the level and change in unemployment rates.
While current economic conditions in Europe continue to be challenging, managements cash flow projections are based primarily on these prevailing conditions.
Risks include slower than expected growth and an uncertain regulatory environment.
RBWM Europe specifically, is sensitive to further customer remediation and regulatory actions.
Based on the conditions at the balance sheet date, management determined that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions described above would not cause an impairment to be recognised in respect of RBWM Europe or CMB Europe.
Global Banking and Markets Europe: the key assumption included in the cash flow projection for GB&M Europe is that European markets will continue to recover during 2014.
Accordingly, recovery in European revenues is assumed to continue over the projection period to 2017.
Interest rate fluctuations would put further pressure on European markets revenue recovery.
Our ability to achieve the forecast cash flows for GB&M Europe could be adversely impacted by regulatory change during the forecast period including but not limited to the extent that the recommendations set out in the Final Report by the Independent Commission on Banking are implemented.
Based on the conditions at the balance sheet date, management determined that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions described above would not cause an impairment to be recognised in respect of GB&M Europe.
Retail Banking and Wealth Management Latin America: the assumptions included in the cash flow projections for RBWM Latin America reflect the economic environment and financial outlook of the countries within this 514 CGU, with Brazil and Mexico being the two largest.
Key assumptions include growth in lending and deposit volumes and the credit quality of the loan portfolios.
Mexico in particular is sensitive to economic conditions in the US which could constrain demand.
Potential challenges include unfavourable economic conditions restricting client demand and competitor pricing constraining margins.
Based on the conditions at the balance sheet date, management determined that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions described above would not cause an impairment to be recognised in respect of RBWM Latin America.
Present value of in-force long-term insurance business PVIF Our life insurance business is accounted for using the embedded value approach which, inter alia, provides a risk and valuation framework.
The PVIF asset at 31 December 2013 was US$5.3bn 2012: US$4.8bn, representing the present value of the equity holders interest in the issuing insurance companies profits expected to emerge from long-term insurance business and the long-term investment contracts with DPF in force at the balance sheet date.
2 Experience variances include the effect of the difference between demographic, expense and persistency assumptions used in the previous PVIF calculation and actual experience observed during the year to the extent this affects profits on future business.
3 Other adjustments for 2012 included a one-off gain of US$119m for a PVIF asset recognised on linked insurance business in Brazil.
In the PVIF calculation, expected cash flows are projected after adjusting for a variety of assumptions made by each insurance operation to reflect local market conditions and managements judgement of future trends, and after applying risk margins to reflect any uncertainty in the underlying assumptions.
The main assumptions relate to economic and non-economic assumptions and policyholder behaviour.
Variations in actual experience and changes to assumptions can contribute to volatility in the results of the insurance business.
The key drivers of the movement in the value of the PVIF asset are the expected cash flows from: new business adjusted for anticipated maturities and assumptions relating to policyholder behaviour Value of new business written during the year : unwind of the discount rate less the reversal of expected cash flows for the period Expected return : changes in non-economic operating assumptions such as mortality or lapse rates Change in operating assumptions : the effects of changes in projected future cash flows associated with operating assumption experience variances compared with those assumed at the start of the period Experience variances : changes related to future investment returns Changes in investment assumptions : and the effect of actual investment experience on existing assets compared with the assumptions at the start of the period Investment return variances.
515 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued 22 Goodwill and intangible assets The valuation of the PVIF asset includes explicit risk margins for non-economic risks in the projection assumptions and explicit allowances for financial options and guarantees using stochastic methods.
Risk discount rates are set on an active basis with reference to market risk-free yields.
Key assumptions used in the computation of PVIF for main life insurance operations Economic assumptions are set in each country in a way that is consistent with observable market values where deep and liquid markets exist.
When economic assumptions are set for a term that is beyond the observable range or the observable values are not appropriate with regard to the nature and term of liabilities, we use relevant historical data and research analyses performed by the Groups Economic Research team and internationally reputable consultants in deriving the assumptions.
Where shareholders provide guarantees and options to policyholders the cost of these options and guarantees is an explicit reduction to PVIF, unless it is already allowed for as an explicit addition to the technical provisions required by regulators.
See page 254 for further details of these guarantees.
The following table shows the effect on the PVIF of reasonably possible changes in the main economic assumption, risk-free rates, across all insurance manufacturing subsidiaries.
Due to certain characteristics of the contracts, the relationships are non-linear and the results of the sensitivity testing should not be extrapolated to higher levels of stress.
The sensitivities shown are before actions that could be taken by management to mitigate effects and before resultant changes in policyholder behaviour.
The table below shows the sensitivity of PVIF to reasonably possible changes in these non-economic assumptions at that date across all our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries.
The revaluation net of amortisation charge for mortgage servicing rights was a credit of US$34m in 2013 2012: amortisation charge of US$78m.
517 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
