HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Strategic Report continued Strategic priority 3 Streamline processes and procedures Operational performance Customers Strategic priority 3 Streamline processes and procedures Operational performance................................... 34 Our aim is to achieve a cost efficiency ratio in the mid 50s.
Sustainable savings will release funds to invest in growing our business, Global Standards and increasing dividends.
Operational performance software development we improved software development productivity and shifted the mix of We continue to refine our operational employees towards lower-cost locations: processes, develop our global functions, process optimisation we improved the implement consistent business models and efficiency of our operational activities such as streamline IT.
contact centres including offshoring, trade and Sustainable savings are the financial outputs from payments services: and our organisational effectiveness and streamlining corporate real estate we rationalised our programmes.
They arise from the reduction or property portfolio by leasing and launching elimination of complexity, inefficiencies or facilities management initiatives.
unnecessary activities, and release capital that can be reinvested in growing our business as well as In phase 2, from 2014 to 2016, we will increasing returns to shareholders.
concentrate on streamlining operations, focusing on reducing or eliminating complexity, inefficiencies, We are transitioning from organisational risks or unnecessary activities across the whole effectiveness to streamlining, which is the next Group.
This exercise will be applied to: phase of our transformation.
While organisational effectiveness was about how HSBC is managed, propositions, and sales channels: streamlining is about how we operate.
processes and servicing channels, including We committed to deliver US$2.5-3.5bn of production management, multi-channel sustainable savings at the outset of the organisational servicing, operational processes and the effectiveness programme.
We have achieved locations of activities: and US$4.5bn for the period from 2011 to the end of infrastructure, including real estate, technology, 2013, equivalent to US$4.9bn on an annualised supplier management and global functions.
run rate basis, as follows: Streamlining will be achieved through a Sustainable savings 2011 to 2013 combination of simplifying and globalising our processes, products, systems and operations.
US$bn Simplifying involves identifying inefficiencies Re-engineering operational processes......... 1.6 or excessive complexity and redesigning or Re-engineering global functions................. 1.4 Implementing consistent business models.. 0.7 rationalising processes to make them easier Streamlining IT............................................ 0.8 to understand and manage and more efficient.
Globalising involves developing standard global 4.5 processes and implementing them around the Group with minimal local variations.
In implementing our operational effectiveness programme, we concentrated on a number of key Cost efficiency ratio elements: Our cost efficiency ratio for 2013 was 59.6%, down people and structure we implemented an 8x8 from 62.8% in 2012. reporting structure, moved to a global operating model, and defined and introduced target business models across all global businesses and functions: 30
