The weighted average yield for each range of maturities is calculated by dividing the annualised interest income for the year ended 31 December 2013 by the book amount of available-for-sale debt securities at that date.
The yields do not include the effect of related derivatives.
20 Transfers of financial assets HSBC enters into transactions in the normal course of business by which it transfers financial assets to third parties including structured entities SEs.
Depending on the circumstances, these transfers may either result in these financial assets being derecognised or continuing to be recognised.
506 Full derecognition occurs when HSBC transfers its contractual right to receive cash flows from the financial assets, or retains the right but assumes an obligation to pass on the cash flows from the asset, and transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
The risks include credit, interest rate, foreign currency, prepayment and other price risks.
Derecognition does not occur when HSBC transfers its contractual right to receive cash flows from the financial assets, or retains the right but assumes an obligation to pass on the cash flows from the asset, but either: i retains substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the transferred asset: or ii neither retains nor transfers substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership but has retained control of the financial asset.
In this situation, the financial assets are recognised on the balance sheet to the extent of HSBCs continuing involvement.
The majority of transferred financial assets that do not qualify for derecognition are i debt securities held by counterparties as collateral under repurchase agreements or ii equity securities lent under securities lending agreements.
As the substance of these transactions is secured borrowings the asset collateral continues to be recognised in full and the related liability reflecting the Groups obligation to repurchase the transferred assets for a fixed price at a future date is recognised in deposits from banks or customers as appropriate.
As a result of these transactions, the Group is unable to use, sell or pledge the transferred assets for the duration of the transaction.
The Group remains exposed to interest rate risk and credit risk on these pledged instruments.
The counterpartys recourse is not limited to the transferred assets.
Other transactions that do not qualify for full derecognition include other sales where the counterpartys recourse is only to the transferred asset.
Other sales recourse to transferred asset only in the table below includes a Canadian government sponsored securitisation programme, where HSBC Bank Canada assigns ownership and its right to sell or pledge residential mortgages.
HSBC Bank Canada remains exposed to credit and interest rate risk on the assigned residential mortgages, which continue to be recorded as loans and advances.
Third party funds received by HSBC Bank Canada under the programme are accounted for as secured borrowings and presented as debt securities in issue on the consolidated balance sheet.
In a small number of securitisation transactions, HSBC has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the transferred assets, and has retained control of the transferred assets.
Circumstances in which HSBC has continuing involvement in the transferred assets may include retention of servicing rights over the transferred assets, entering into a derivative transaction with the securitisation vehicle or retaining an interest in the securitisation vehicle.
Where HSBC has continuing involvement it continues to recognise the transferred assets to the extent of its continuing involvement and recognises an associated liability.
The net carrying amount of the transferred assets and associated liabilities reflects the rights and obligations that HSBC has retained.
The following table analyses the carrying amount of financial assets that did not qualify for derecognition and their associated financial liabilities, including those that are recognised to the extent of HSBCs continuing involvement and the associated liabilities.
Financial assets not qualifying for full derecognition and associated financial liabilities Carrying amount of Carrying Carrying Fair Fair assets amount of amount of value of value of before transferred associated transferred associated Net transfer assets liabilities assets liabilities position US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2013 Repurchase agreements...................................... 125,508 126,175 Securities lending agreements............................ 9,175 8,884 Other sales recourse to transferred asset only.
9,727 9,733 9,767 9,856 89 Securitisations recognised to the extent of continuing involvement.................................. 17,427 12 6 12 6 6 507 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
