HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued 30 Liabilities under insurance contracts 31 Provisions 1 Includes liabilities under non-life insurance contracts.
2 Includes movement in liabilities relating to discretionary profit participation benefits due to policyholders arising from net unrealised investment gains recognised in other comprehensive income.
3 Includes amounts arising under reinsurance agreements.
The increase in liabilities to policyholders represents the aggregate of all events giving rise to additional liabilities to policyholders in the year.
The key factors contributing to the movement in liabilities to policyholders include death claims, surrenders, lapses, liabilities to policyholders created at the initial inception of the policies, the declaration of bonuses and other amounts attributable to policyholders.
Legal proceedings include civil court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings brought against HSBC companies whether by way of claim or counterclaim or civil disputes that may, if not settled, result in court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings.
Regulatory matters refer to investigations, reviews and other actions carried out by, or in response to the actions of, regulators or law enforcement agencies in connection with alleged wrongdoing by HSBC.
In December 2012, HSBC made payments totalling US$1,921m to US authorities in relation to investigations regarding inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering and sanctions laws.
Further details of the agreements reached with the US authorities are set out on page 558.
Customer remediation refers to activities carried out by HSBC to compensate customers for losses or damages associated with a failure to comply with regulations or to treat customers fairly.
Customer remediation is initiated by HSBC in response to customer complaints and or industry developments in sales practices, and is not necessarily initiated by regulatory action.
Payment protection insurance An increase in provisions of US$756m was recognised during 2013 in respect of the estimated liability for redress regarding the mis-selling of payment protection insurance PPI policies in previous years.
Cumulative provisions made since the Judicial Review ruling in 2011 amount to US$3,153m, of which US$1,138m was paid in 2013 2012: US$957m.
At 31 December 2013, the provision amounted to US$946m 2012: US$1,321m.
The estimated liability for redress is calculated on the basis of total premiums paid by the customer plus simple interest of 8% per annum or the rate inherent in the related loan product where higher.
The basis for calculating the redress liability is the same for single premium and regular premium policies.
Future estimated redress levels are based on historically observed redress per policy.
526 A total of approximately 5.4m PPI policies have been sold by HSBC since 2000, generating estimated revenues of US$4.1bn at 2013 average exchange rates.
The gross written premiums on these polices was approximately US$5.0bn at 2013 average exchange rates.
At 31 December 2013, the estimated total complaints expected to be received was 1.5m, representing 29% of total policies sold.
It is estimated that contact will be made with regard to 1.9m policies, representing 35% of total policies sold.
This estimate includes inbound complaints as well as HSBCs proactive contact exercise on certain policies outbound contact.
2 Claims include inbound and responses to outbound contact.
The main assumptions involved in calculating the redress liability are the volume of inbound complaints, the projected period of inbound complaints, the decay rate of complaint volumes, the population identified as systemically mis-sold and the number of policies per customer complaint.
The main assumptions are likely to evolve over time as root cause analysis continues, more experience is available regarding customer initiated complaint volumes received, and we handle responses to our ongoing outbound contact.
A 100,000 increase decrease in the total inbound complaints would increase decrease the redress provision by approximately US$203m at 2013 average exchange rates.
Each 1% increase decrease in the response rate to our outbound contact exercise would increase decrease the redress provision by approximately US$8m.
In addition to these factors and assumptions, the extent of the required redress will also depend on the facts and circumstances of each individual customers case.
For these reasons, there is currently a high degree of uncertainty as to the eventual costs of redress for this matter.
The decay rate implies that by the end of 2015 inbound claim volumes would mean that the redress programme is complete.
However, this timing is subject to some level of uncertainty as the decay rate may change over time based on actual experience.
Interest rate derivatives A provision of US$776m 2012: US$598m was recognised relating to the estimated liability for redress in respect of the possible mis-selling of interest rate derivatives in the UK.
Of this provision, US$453m related to the estimated redress payable to customers in respect of historical payments under derivative contracts, the remaining provision covered the expected write-off by the bank of open derivative contracts balances and estimated project costs.
Following an FCA review of the sale of interest rate derivatives, HSBC agreed to pay redress to customers where mis-selling of these products occurred under the FCAs criteria.
On 31 January 2013, the FCA announced the findings from their review of pilot cases completed by the banks.
Following its review, the FCA clarified the eligibility criteria to ensure the programme is focused on those small businesses that were unlikely to understand the risks associated with those products.
HSBC has also been working with the FCA and an independent skilled person adviser to clarify the standards against which it should assess sales, and how redress should be calculated for example, when it would be appropriate to assume a customer would have taken an alternative interest rate product.
The extent to which HSBC is required to pay redress depends on the responses of contacted and other customers during the review period and the facts and circumstances of each individual case.
For these reasons, there is currently a high degree of uncertainty as to the eventual costs of redress related to this programme.
HSBC expects to make the main redress payments in respect of this programme in the near future.
Brazilian labour and fiscal claims Within Legal proceedings and regulatory matters above are labour and fiscal litigation provisions of US$500m 2012: US$506m which include provisions in respect of labour and overtime litigation claims brought by past employees against HSBC operations in Brazil following their departure from the bank.
The main assumptions involved in estimating the liability are the expected number of departing employees, individual salary levels and the facts and circumstances of each individual case.
527 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
