53 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Financial summary Group performance by income and expense item The commentary in the following sections is on a the proceeds from maturities and sales of availableconstant currency basis unless stated otherwise.
for-sale debt securities were invested at prevailing rates, which were lower.
This was partly offset by Reported net interest income of US$35.5bn growth in customer deposits leading to an overall decreased by 6% compared with 2012 and on a increase in the size of the Balance Sheet constant currency basis, net interest income fell by Management portfolio.
Both net interest spread and margin also fell, reflecting lower yields on customer lending Interest expense following the disposal in 2012 of the CRS business in the US, which was higher yielding relative to the Interest expense fell in the year, though to a lesser average yield of our portfolio, and lower yields on extent than interest income, driven by a lower cost our surplus liquidity.
These factors were partially of funds relating to customer accounts.
The offset by a lower cost of funds, principally on reduction in interest rates paid to customers in customer accounts and debt issued by the Group.
Europe, Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific more than offset the effect of the growth in the average On an underlying basis, which excludes the net balances of customer accounts.
There was also a interest income earned by the businesses sold during decline in the interest expense on customer accounts 2013 see page 50 from both years 2013: in Latin America, principally in Brazil, reflecting US$273m: 2012: US$2.0bn and currency the managed reduction in term deposits as we translation movements of US$682m, net interest continued to change the funding base, substituting income increased by 1%.
This reflected balance wholesale customer deposits for medium-term loan sheet growth in Hong Kong and Europe, partly offset notes, together with a lower average base interest by lower net interest income earned in North rate.
The disposal of the business in Panama also America as a result of the run-off and disposal of reduced interest expense.
CML portfolios in the US and the consumer finance business in Canada.
Interest expense on debt issued by the Group decreased too.
In North America, as a result of the Interest income business disposals and the run-off of the CML portfolio, our funding requirements declined and led On a constant currency basis, interest income fell.
to a fall in average outstanding balances.
In Europe, This was driven by lower interest income from average outstanding balances fell as a result of net customer lending, including loans classified within redemptions.
Additionally, the effective rate of Assets held for sale, as a consequence of the interest declined as new issuances were at lower disposal of the CRS business in the US in 2012 and prevailing rates.
the CML non-real estate loan portfolio and select tranches of CML first lien mortgages in the US in Repos and reverse repos 2013.
In addition, average yields on customer lending in Latin America fell, notably in Brazil, During the final quarter, GB&M changed the way it following lower average interest rates: re-pricing manages reverse repurchase reverse repo and in line with local competition: a change in the repurchase repo activities.
For full details, see composition of the lending portfolios as we focused page 68.
This had the effect of reducing the net on growing secured, lower yielding, lending interest margin as average interest earning assets and balances for corporate and Premier customers.
interest bearing liabilities increased significantly.
Interest income earned in Panama, where we These reverse repo and repo agreements have a disposed of the business, also fell.
By contrast lower gross yield and cost of funds, respectively, interest income on customer lending in Hong Kong when compared with the remainder of our portfolio.
and Rest of Asia-Pacific rose, driven by growth in Net interest income includes the expense residential mortgage balances in RBWM and term of internally funded trading assets, while related and trade-related and commercial real estate and revenue is reported in Net trading income.
The other property-related lending in CMB.
This increase internal cost of funding these assets declined, in interest income was partially offset by compressed reflecting a decrease in the average trading asset yields on trade lending and lower yields as interest balances in most regions and reductions in our rates declined in a number of countries across the average cost of funds in these regions.
our global business results, this cost is included Interest income in Balance Sheet Management within Net trading income.
capital financing increased and the collaboration between CMB and GB&M strengthened.
Fees from unit trusts grew, primarily in Hong Kong, as we captured improved market sentiment These factors were partly offset by the sale of and strong customer demand.
Fees from funds under the CRS business in North America, which led to management increased, primarily in Europe and a reduction in cards and insurance fee income and Hong Kong, reflecting improved market conditions.
Fee income related to the sale fell Fee income from credit facilities rose, mainly following the expiry of the majority of the transition in Europe in CMB.
service agreements entered into during 2012.
This is reported in other fee income while associated costs are reported in Operating expenses.
Reported net trading income of US$8.7bn was of foreign currency debt designated at fair value.
On a constant These adverse movements offset favourable foreign currency basis, income increased by US$1.8bn, exchange movements on the foreign currency debt notably in Europe.
Net income from trading which are reported in Net expense from financial activities primarily arose from our Markets business instruments designated at fair value.
In addition, within GB&M, which recorded a resilient we made foreign exchange gains of US$442m performance during 2013. on sterling debt issued by HSBC Holdings.
We also recorded a favourable debit valuation adjustment The rise in net income from trading activities DVA of US$105m on derivative contracts, was due in part to lower adverse foreign exchange compared with a net reported charge of US$385m in movements on assets held as economic hedges 55 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Financial summary Group performance by income and expense item 2012, as a result of a change in estimation liquidity intervention.
Revenue in 2013 was also methodology in respect of credit valuation affected by uncertainty regarding the tapering of adjustments CVAs of US$903m and a DVA of quantitative easing in the US.
US$518m, to reflect evolving market practices.
During 2013, we reported adverse fair value Net income from trading activities in Markets movements of US$682m compared with US$553m also rose.
Trading revenue in Credit grew driven in 2012 on the contingent forward sale contract by revaluation gains from price appreciation on relating to Ping An in Rest of Asia-Pacific see assets in the legacy portfolio together with increased Note 25 on the Financial Statements.
Foreign Exchange revenue rose Net interest income from trading activities also as a result of increased client demand for hedging declined.
This was driven by lower yields on debt solutions, in part from increased collaboration, securities in part reflecting the downward movement although this was partly offset by margin in interest rates.
compression and reduced market volatility in the second half of 2013.
Equities revenue also grew, In addition, net trading income was adversely from higher client flows and increased revaluation affected by losses of US$194m relating to the gains in Europe, together with minimal fair value termination of qualifying accounting hedges, mainly movements on own credit spreads on structured in HSBC Finance Corporation HSBC Finance of liabilities, compared with adverse fair value US$199m, as a result of anticipated changes in movements in 2012. funding.
Rates trading income in 2012 included a charge In 2013, there were favourable movements following a change in the CVA methodology, as on non-qualifying hedges compared with adverse noted above.
In 2013, we won new client mandates movements in 2012.
In North America, we reported and reported smaller adverse fair value movements favourable fair value movements on non-qualifying on our credit spreads on structured liabilities.
These hedges as US long-term interest rates increased, factors were broadly offset by reduced revenue as in compared with adverse fair value movements in 2012 we benefited from a significant tightening of 2012.
There were also favourable fair value spreads on eurozone bonds following the ECBs movements on non-qualifying hedges in Europe, compared with adverse movements in 2012.
56 Assets and liabilities from which net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value arose 2013 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m Financial assets designated at fair value at 31 December.......................................... 38,430 33,582 30,856 Financial liabilities designated at fair value at 31 December.................................... 89,084 87,720 85,724 Including: Financial assets held to meet liabilities under: 24 insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF................................. 10,717 8,376 7,221 unit-linked insurance and other insurance and investment contracts................ 25,423 23,655 20,033 Long-term debt issues designated at fair value.......................................................... 75,278 74,768 73,808 For footnote, see page 132.
The accounting policies for the designation of US$5.2bn in 2012.
Adverse fair value movements financial instruments at fair value and the treatment were less extensive in 2013 than in 2012 as HSBC of the associated income and expenses are described spreads tightened significantly in Europe and North in Notes 2i and 2b on the Financial Statements, America, having widened during 2011. respectively.
Net income arising from financial assets held The majority of the financial liabilities designated to meet liabilities under insurance and investment at fair value are fixed-rate long-term debt issues, the contracts increased reflecting higher net investment interest rate profile of which has been changed to returns in 2013 than in 2012.
These returns reflected floating through swaps as part of a documented favourable equity market movements in the UK and interest rate management strategy.
The movement France, partly offset by weaker equity market in fair value of these long-term debt issues and the performance and falling bond prices in Hong Kong related hedges includes the effect of our credit spread and lower net income on the bond portfolio in Brazil.
changes and any ineffectiveness in the economic Investment gains or losses arising from equity relationship between the related swaps and own markets result in a corresponding movement in debt.
As credit spreads widen or narrow, accounting liabilities to customers, reflecting the extent to which profits or losses, respectively, are booked.
The size unit-linked policyholders, in particular, participate in and direction of the changes in the credit spread on the investment performance of the associated asset our debt and ineffectiveness, which are recognised portfolio.
Where these relate to assets held to back in the income statement, can be volatile from year to investment contracts, the corresponding movement year, but do not alter the cash flows expected as part in liabilities to customers is also recorded under of the documented interest rate management strategy.
Net income expense from financial instruments As a consequence, fair value movements arising designated at fair value.
This is in contrast to gains from changes in our own credit spread on long-term or losses related to assets held to back insurance debt and other fair value movements on the debt contracts or investment contracts with discretionary and related derivatives are not regarded internally as participation features DPF, where the part of managed performance and are therefore not corresponding movement in liabilities to customers allocated to global businesses, but are reported in is recorded under Net insurance claims incurred Other.
Credit spread movements on own debt and movement in liabilities to policyholders.
designated at fair value are excluded from underlying results, and related fair value movements are not Other changes in fair value reflected lower included in the calculation of regulatory capital.
favourable foreign exchange movements in 2013 than in 2012 on foreign currency debt designated at We reported net income from financial fair value and issued as part of our overall funding instruments designated at fair value of US$768m strategy offset from assets held as economic hedges in 2013 compared with a net expense of US$2.2bn in Net trading income, and higher adverse in 2012.
This included credit spread-related movements due to hedging ineffectiveness in 2013. movements in the fair value of our own long-term debt, on which we experienced adverse fair value movements of US$1.2bn in 2013 compared with 57 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Financial summary Group performance by income and expense item Gains less losses from financial investments 2013 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m Net gains losses from disposal of: debt securities..................................................................................................... 491 781 712 11 Ping An equity securities classified as available-for-sale............................... 1,235 other equity securities........................................................................................ 462 823 360 other financial investments................................................................................ 1 5 12 2,187 1,609 1,084 Impairment of available-for-sale equity securities..................................................... 175 420 177 Gains less losses from financial investments............................................................. 2,012 1,189 907 For footnote, see page 132.
Gains less losses from financial investments rose The year on year decline in impairments on by US$823m on a reported basis and by US$840m available-for-sale equity securities also contributed on a constant currency basis.
to the rise in gains less losses from financial investments.
This was driven by a reduction in This was driven by a significant increase in net write downs in our Principal Investments business.
gains from the disposal of available-for-sale equity securities in Rest of Asia-Pacific following the Net gains on the disposal of debt securities fell completion of the sale of our remaining shareholding as 2012 included significant gains on the sale of in Ping An and an increase in disposal gains in available-for-sale government debt securities, Principal Investments.
These increases were partly notably in Europe, arising from structural interest offset by the non-recurrence of gains in Hong Kong rate risk management of the balance sheet.
from the sale of our shares in four Indian banks in 2012.
In addition, the sale of the constant currency basis.
non-life business in Argentina in 2012 contributed to the decrease.
The reduction was primarily due to lower net earned premiums in Europe, Latin America and The reduction in net earned premiums in North North America, partly offset by an increase in Hong America was due to the sale of our insurance Kong.
manufacturing business in the first half of 2013.
In Europe, net earned premiums decreased, In Hong Kong, premium income increased as mainly as a result of lower sales of investment a result of higher renewal premiums for insurance contracts with DPF in France.
In addition, 2012 contracts with DPF and unit-linked insurance benefited from a number of large sales through contracts, partly offset by lower sales of new independent financial adviser channels which are business in 2013 and the disposal of the non-life now in run off.
In 2012, we made significant progress in exiting tranches.
The first tranche was completed non-strategic markets and disposing of businesses on 7 December 2012, at which point we ceased and investments not aligned with the Groups longto account for Ping An as an associate and term strategy.
These included three major disposals: recognised a gain on disposal of US$3.0bn.
The remaining shareholding in respect of the second In May 2012, HSBC USA Inc. HSBC Finance tranche was recognised as a financial and HSBC Technology and Services USA Inc. investment.
sold their US Card and Retail Services business, realising a gain on sale of US$3.1bn.
The fixing of the sale price in respect of the second tranche gave rise to a contingent forward sale In May 2012, HSBC Bank USA, N. A. HSBC contract, for which there was an adverse fair value Bank USA sold 138 out of 195 branches, movement of US$553m recorded in Net trading primarily in upstate New York, realising a gain income in 2012.
The disposal of our investment in of US$661m.
In August 2012, it sold the Ping An was completed in 2013.
We realised a gain remaining 57 branches to the same purchaser, of US$1.2bn, which was recorded in Gains less realising a gain of US$203m.
This was partly In December 2012, HSBC Insurance Holdings offset by the adverse fair value movement of Limited and The Hongkong and Shanghai US$682m on the contingent forward sale contract Banking Corporation agreed to sell their entire recorded in Net trading income, leading to a net shareholdings in Ping An, representing 15.57% gain in the year of US$553m.
These factors were partly offset by higher disposal and revaluation gains on investment Reported other operating income included net properties in Hong Kong.
gains on the disposals and the reclassifications listed on page 49 of US$2.2bn in 2013, principally relating There were lower favourable movements on to an accounting gain arising from the the present value of the in-force PVIF long-term reclassification of Industrial Bank as a financial insurance business asset compared with 2012. investment following its issue of additional share This was largely due to lower values of new business capital to third parties and a gain on the disposal of in Europe, Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific, our operations in Panama, compared with net gains reflecting lower sales.
Additionally, expected returns of US$736m in 2012. increased due to the growth of the opening PVIF asset year on year, particularly in Hong Kong and On an underlying basis, which excludes the net Brazil.
gains above, the results of disposed of operations and the effects of foreign currency translation, other These factors were partly offset by higher operating income decreased.
This was driven by favourable assumption changes in Hong Kong, losses totalling US$424m on the sales of our CML which exceeded the adverse experience and non-real estate personal loan portfolio and several assumption changes in Latin America.
The lower tranches of real estate secured loans, and a loss of other PVIF movements in 2013 compared with 2012 US$279m following the write-off of goodwill were driven by Latin America, notably the relating to our GPB business in Monaco.
In addition, favourable effect of the recognition of a PVIF asset in Brazil in 2012 which did not recur.
Net insurance claims incurred and movement in assets held to support policyholder contracts where liabilities to policyholders decreased by 4% on a the policyholder bears investment risk.
These returns reported basis, and by 3% on a constant currency reflected favourable equity market movements in basis.
the UK and France, partly offset by weaker equity market performance and falling bond prices in Hong The reduction largely reflected the decrease in Kong and lower net income on the bond portfolio in premiums, notably in Latin America, North America Brazil.
and France, and included the effect of business disposals described under Net earned insurance The gains or losses recognised on the financial premiums.
assets designated at fair value held to support these insurance and investment contract liabilities are This reduction was partly offset by increases in reported in Net income from financial instruments reserves attributable to increased renewal premiums designated at fair value.
In and other credit risk provisions LICs were Europe, higher provisions in GB&M were broadly US$2.5bn lower than in 2012, decreasing in the offset by decreases in CMB, mainly in the UK and majority of regions, most notably in North America, Greece.
Europe and the Middle East and North Africa.
The movement in credit risk provisions on Underlying LICs declined by US$1.9bn to available-for-sale debt securities was largely in US$5.8bn.
GB&M as a result of net releases in Europe The percentage of impairment charges to compared with charges in 2012, and a credit risk average gross loans and advances reduced to 0.6% provision on an available-for-sale debt security in at 31 December 2013 from 0.9% at 31 December 2012 in Rest of Asia-Pacific.
In North America, LICs decreased by On a constant currency basis, LICs fell by US$2.3bn to US$1.2bn, mainly in the US, in part US$2.3bn, a reduction of 28%.
Collectively assessed due to improvements in housing market conditions.
charges decreased by US$2.1bn while individually In addition, the decrease reflected lower lending assessed impairment charges increased by balances from continued run-off and loan sales, and US$198m.
Credit risk provisions on available-forlower levels of new impaired loans and delinquency sale debt securities reflected net releases of in the CML portfolio.
US$322m of the decline in US$211m in 2013 compared with charges in 2012. loan impairment charges was due to the sale of the CRS business in 2012.
These factors were partly The fall in collectively assessed charges largely offset by an increase of US$130m relating to a rise arose in North America, in part due to improvements in the estimated average period of time from a loss in housing market conditions.
In addition, the event occurring to writing off real estate loans to decrease reflected lower lending balances, reduced twelve months previously a period of ten months new impaired loans and lower delinquency levels was used.
In CMB, loan impairment charges in the CML portfolio.
This was partially offset increased by US$77m, reflecting higher collectively by increases in Latin America, principally in Mexico assessed charges in the US as a result of increased due to higher collective impairments in RBWM.
In lending balances in key growth markets and higher Brazil, improvements in credit quality were broadly individually assessed impairments on a small offset by higher charges from model changes and number of exposures mainly in Canada.
assumption revisions for restructured loan portfolios in RBWM and Business Banking in CMB.
In Europe, LICs decreased by 20% to US$1.5bn.
In the UK, GB&M reported net releases The increase in individually assessed loan of credit risk provisions on available-for-sale impairment charges reflected higher levels of asset-backed securities ABSs, compared with impairment in Latin America, particularly on impairment charges in 2012, offset in part by higher exposures to homebuilders in Mexico and across individually assessed provisions.
In addition, there a number of corporate exposures in Brazil.
These were lower loan impairment charges in CMB due were partly offset by releases in the Middle East and to lower collectively and individually assessed North Africa, mainly in GB&M for a small number provisions, and in RBWM due to lower collectively of customers as a result of an overall improvement in assessed provisions reflecting recoveries from 61 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Financial summary Group performance by income and expense item debt sales.
In other countries in Europe, lower In Latin America, LICs increased by individually assessed impairment provisions in US$693m, primarily in Mexico due to specific Greece were partly offset by increases in Turkey, impairments in CMB relating to homebuilders where there was growth in unsecured lending in from a change in the public housing policy, and RBWM and a rise in Spain, where the challenging higher collective impairments in RBWM as a result economic conditions continued to affect the market.
of increased volumes and higher delinquency in our unsecured lending portfolio.
In Brazil, LICs In the Middle East and North Africa, LICs increased due to changes to the impairment model reflected a net release of US$42m compared and assumption revisions for restructured loan with a charge of US$282m in 2012.
We recorded account portfolios in RBWM and CMB, following provision releases, mainly in GB&M, for a small a realignment of local practices to Group standard number of UAE-related exposures, reflecting an policy.
LICs were also adversely affected by higher overall improvement in the loan portfolio compared specific impairments in CMB across a number of with charges in 2012.
In addition, loan impairment corporate exposures.
These factors were partly offset charges declined, due to lower individually assessed by improvements in credit quality in Brazil loan impairments in the UAE in CMB, and lower following the modification of credit strategies in provisions in RBWM on residential mortgages previous years to mitigate rising delinquency rates.
following a repositioning of the book towards higher quality lending and improved property prices.
LICs in Hong Kong were US$63m higher due to a revision to the assumptions used in our In Rest of Asia-Pacific, LICs decreased by collective assessment models in RBWM and a rise US$63m as 2012 included a large individually in individual impairment charges in CMB, although assessed impairment of a corporate exposure in these remained low.
This was partly offset by Australia and a credit risk provision on an availablecollective provision releases in CMB from lower for-sale debt security in GB&M.
These factors were historical loss rates and individual impairment partly offset by an increase in individually assessed releases in GB&M.
impairments in GB&M and CMB in a number of countries across the region.
On an of US$1.9bn, and a reduction in restructuring and underlying basis, costs fell by 6%.
other related costs of US$369m.
UK customer redress programmes were also lower than in 2012.
On a constant currency basis, operating These included: expenses in 2013 were US$3.7bn or 9% lower than in 2012, primarily due to the non-recurrence of a 62 a charge for additional estimated redress for During 2013: possible mis-selling in previous years of we increased our investment in digital and payment protection insurance PPI policies wealth management capabilities in RBWM: of US$756m US$1.7bn in 2012 : in CMB we continued our ongoing expansion US$261m in respect of interest rate protection into the large corporate market in the US: and products US$586m in 2012 : and increased investment spend on regulatory US$149m in respect of wealth management requirements particularly through the Global products.
The provision for the UK customer In addition, other costs rose due to higher redress programmes at 31 December 2013 is operational expenses in part driven by general US$2.1bn inflationary pressures including wage inflation The business disposals, primarily the disposal of across the Group and rental costs in Hong Kong and the CRS business and the non-strategic branches in Rest of Asia-Pacific.
Cost growth in the Middle East the US in 2012, resulted in a lower cost base in and North Africa resulted from a customer redress 2013. programme in RBWM relating to fees charged on overseas credit card transactions, the acquisition of Excluding the above, expenses were US$808m the Lloyds business in the UAE in 2012 and the higher than in 2012.
The UK bank levy charge of merger with Oman International Bank S. A. O. G. US$904m in 2013 increased compared with OIB.
Operating expenses also increased in Hong US$571m in 2012, mainly due to an increase in Kong and North America as a result of changes to its rate.
In addition, operating expenses in both years the recognition of pension costs.
included adjustments relating to the prior year charge for the UK bank levy 2013: US$12m These cost increases were in part offset by adverse adjustment: 2012: US$99m favourable further sustainable cost savings of US$1.5bn from adjustment.
our ongoing organisational effectiveness programmes.
In addition, we recorded an accounting Litigation-related expenses increased primarily gain of US$430m from changes in delivering illdue to a provision in respect of regulatory health benefits to certain employees in the UK see investigations in GPB, Madoff related litigation Note 7 on the Financial Statements.
costs in GB&M, and a customer remediation provision connected with our former CRS business.
The number of employees expressed in full-time equivalent numbers FTEs at the end of 2013 was 3% lower than at the end of 2012 due to sustainable cost savings initiatives and business disposals.
Average staff numbers fell by 6% compared with 2012.
concluded that it was not impaired at the year end, This was driven by the disposal of Ping An in 2012 based on our value in use calculation see Note 21 and the reclassification in 2013 of Industrial Bank as on the Financial Statements for further details.
future years, the value in use will remain relatively stable if the current calculation assumptions remain The recognition of profits ceased from Ping An broadly the same.
However, it is expected that the following the agreement to sell our shareholding carrying amount will increase in 2014 due to in December 2012, and from Industrial Bank retained profits earned by BoCom.
At the point following the issuance of additional share capital where the carrying amount exceeds the value in use, to third parties in January 2013, which resulted in the carrying amount would be reduced to equal value our diluted shareholding being classified as a in use, with a corresponding reduction in income, financial investment.
In addition, in 2013, we unless the market value has increased to a level recorded an impairment charge of US$106m on our above the carrying amount.
Profits from The Saudi British Bank rose, Our share of profit from BoCom rose as a result reflecting strong lending growth and effective cost of balance sheet growth and increased fee income, management.
partly offset by higher operating expenses and a rise in loan impairment charges.
anti-money laundering and sanction laws.
The lower effective tax rate reflected the In 2013, the tax borne and paid by the Group to the geographical distribution of our profit, the nonrelevant tax authorities, including tax on profits, bank taxable gain on profits resulting from the levy and employer-related taxes, was US$8.6bn 2012: reclassification of our holding in Industrial Bank as a US$9.3bn.
The amount differs from the tax charge financial investment and the disposal of our reported in the income statement due to indirect taxes operations in Panama and our investment in Ping An.
such as VAT and the bank levy included in pre-tax profit, and the timing of payments.
The tax expense decreased by US$0.6bn to US$4.8bn despite a US$2.0bn increase in accounting We also play a major role as tax collector for profit before tax, due to the combination of benefits governments in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
noted above and because the 2012 tax expense Such taxes include employee-related taxes and taxes included the non-tax deductible effect of fines and withheld from payments to deposit holders.
In 2013, penalties paid as part of the settlement of we collected US$8.8bn 2012: US$8.5bn.
