HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Group Risk Committee Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee Chief Legal Officer and other senior executives Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee as required.
Chairmans Statement The Group Finance Director, Group Chief Risk Having been established in January 2013, the FSVC Officer, Group Chief Accounting Officer, Group has two primary purposes to oversee our compliance Company Secretary and the external auditor and with regulatory orders, including oversight of the other senior executives attended Committee relationship with the Monitor, and to help identify meetings.
and then oversee appropriate responses to emerging Professional external advice on US compliance exogenous threats to HSBC.
By so doing, we support matters has been provided by Promontory Financial HSBCs objective of adopting and enforcing high Group, US financial consultants.
compliance standards throughout the Group and also help protect HSBC.
We recognise that in the past Terms of reference and subsidiary company HSBC did not consistently identify, and so prevent, risk oversight misuse and abuse of the financial system through its The GRC is responsible for non-executive oversight network.
The adoption of high compliance standards of risk management and internal controls, other than allied with the highest standards of behaviour forms internal controls over financial reporting which is part of our strategy to eliminate the possibility of this the responsibility of the GAC.
happening again, and will address our obligations under the deferred prosecution agreements and other To ensure consistency of scope and approach agreements and orders entered into or made with by subsidiary company committees, the GRC has US and UK regulatory and law enforcement established core terms of reference to guide authorities in 2012. subsidiary companies when adopting terms of reference for their non-executive risk committees The FSVC will continue to focus in 2014 on or audit committees if those committees are also approving and monitoring the adoption of controls responsible for the oversight of risk related matters.
and procedures which will underpin our high behavioural and compliance standards.
Building and The Committees endorsement is required maintaining a strong compliance culture throughout for any proposed material changes to subsidiary the Group, which is essential to the success of our company risk committee terms of reference and strategy, will remain a focus area for the FSVC in for appointments to such committees.
A forum for the chairmen of HSBCs principal An equally important aspect of the FSVCs subsidiary company committees with responsibility role is providing the Group with a forward-looking for non-executive oversight of financial reporting perspective on financial crime risk and other and risk-related matters was held in June 2013 to exogenous threats such as cyber-security.
The share understanding and to facilitate a consistent five subject matter experts appointed to the FSVC, approach to the way in which these subsidiary as well as Sir Jonathan Evans who joined the committees operate.
The next forum will be held Committee on 6 August 2013, have provided in June 2014. invaluable guidance and advice in identifying risk areas where the Group could become exposed, and working with us to mitigate those risks.
In 2014, we will continue to build on this work and Im delighted that Sir Jonathan has agreed to take over the chairmanship of the Committee during the second quarter of this year.
I would also like to welcome our new Director, Kathleen Casey, who will be joining the FSVC in March 2014.
We have set out in the report below further information on the role and activities of the FSVC during 2013.
Rona Fairhead Chairman, Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee 24 February 2014 358 Role and members Dave Hartnett, CB: former Permanent Secretary for Tax at HM Revenue and Customs: The FSVC has non-executive responsibility for focused on tax policy development, compliance and governance, oversight and policy guidance over the enforcement and international tax issues during his framework of controls and procedures designed to 36-year career in tax administration: former deputy identify areas where HSBC and the financial system chairman of the Organisation for Economic Comore broadly may become exposed to financial operation and Developments Forum on Tax crime or system abuse.
The Committee also has Administration.
oversight of matters relating to anti-money laundering, sanctions, terrorist financing and Bill Hughes, CBE QPM: former head of proliferation financing, including the establishment, the UKs Serious Organised Crime Agency: implementation, maintenance and review of international experience in the disruption, adequate policies and procedures sufficient to dismantling and criminal investigation of organised ensure the continuing obligations to regulatory crime.
and law enforcement agencies are met.
Leonard Schrank: former chief executive The Committee oversees and reports to the officer of SWIFT, the industry owned, global Board on implementation of the actions necessary financial messaging system: oversaw SWIFTs relationship with the US Treasury Department and to build assurance in these areas and seeks to provide other countries on counter-terrorism issues.
Member the Board with a forward-looking perspective on MIT Corporation board of trustees from 2011 to financial crime risk.
Meetings Meetings eligible The Honourable Juan Zarate: Senior Advisor attended to attend at the Center for Strategic and International Studies: 1 Members the Senior National Security Analyst for CBS News: Rona Fairhead Chairman..... 6 6 2 Jim Comey............................. 3 4 a Visiting Lecturer of Law at the Harvard Law 3,4 Sir Jonathan Evans.............. 2 2 School: national security consultant: former Deputy 5 Nick Fishwick....................... 6 6 Assistant to the President and Deputy National 5 Dave Hartnett........................ 6 6 5 Security Advisor for Combating Terrorism Bill Hughes............................ 6 6 responsible for developing and implementing the Sir Simon Robertson............... 6 6 5 Leonard Schrank.................... 6 6 US Governments counter-terrorism strategy and 5,6 Juan Zarate........................... 6 6 policies related to transnational security threats: Meetings held in 2013........... 6 former Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Terrorist Financing and Financial Crime: and 1 Sir Jonathan Evans will become Chairman of the FSVC former federal prosecutor who served on terrorism with effect from the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Kathleen Casey will be appointed as a nonprosecution teams.
executive Director with effect from 1 March 2014 and will become a member of the Committee from this date.
Committee activities 2 Retired as a Director and member on 4 September 2013.
3 Appointed a Director and member on 6 August 2013.
The Committee undertook the following key 4 Also attended one meeting by invitation before becoming activities in the discharge of its responsibilities: a Director.
5 Co-opted non-director member of the Committee.
Forward looking perspective on financial 6 Also provides advisory services to the board of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. crime risk: The Committee agreed areas of focus where HSBC and the financial system Co-opted non-director members more broadly may become exposed to financial crime or system abuse.
The Committee received Five co-opted non-director members have been updates from the adviser members of the appointed advisers to the Committee to support its Committee on activities they had undertaken in work.
Brief biographies are set out below: connection with these agreed areas and received Nick Fishwick, CMG: former senior official reports on actions being taken to address these in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, risks including i the enhancement of the specialising in security, intelligence and counterGroups cyber security capabilities: ii the terrorism: seconded from 2001 to 2004 to HM development of a dedicated team and systems to Customs and Excise as Head of Intelligence Law provide our global businesses with proactive Enforcement, focusing on international counterenhanced customer due diligence: iii the tax narcotics, tax and excise fraud: awarded the CMG transparency initiatives undertaken by HSBC: in 2009. and iv initiatives HSBC is undertaking with external parties related to financial crime 359 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
