Taxation of shares and dividends Information on the taxation consequences of the HSBC Holdings scrip dividends offered in lieu of the Taxation UK residents 2012 fourth interim dividend and the first, second and third interim dividends for 2013 was set out in The following is a summary, under current law, the Secretarys letters to shareholders of 3 April, of certain UK tax considerations that are likely 6 June, 5 September and 5 November 2013.
In no to be material to the ownership and disposition case was the difference between the cash dividend of shares.
The summary does not purport to foregone and the market value of the scrip dividend be a comprehensive description of all the tax in excess of 15% of the market value.
Accordingly, considerations that may be relevant to a holder of the amount of the dividend income chargeable to shares.
In particular, the summary deals principally tax, and, the acquisition price of HSBC Holdings with shareholders who are resident solely in the UK US$0.50 ordinary shares the shares for UK for UK tax purposes and only with holders who hold capital gains tax purposes, was the cash dividend the shares as investments and who are the beneficial foregone.
owners of the shares, and does not address the tax treatment of certain classes of holders such as Taxation of capital gains dealers in securities.
Holders and prospective purchasers should consult their own advisers The computation of the capital gains tax liability regarding the tax consequences of an investment arising on disposals of shares in HSBC Holdings in shares in light of their particular circumstances, by shareholders subject to UK tax on capital gains including the effect of any national, state or local can be complex, partly depending on whether, for laws.
example, the shares were purchased since April 1991, acquired in 1991 in exchange for shares in Taxation of dividends The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, or acquired subsequent to 1991 in exchange Currently no tax is withheld from dividends paid by for shares in other companies.
However, dividends are paid with an associated tax credit which is available for set-off For capital gains tax purposes, the acquisition by certain shareholders against any liability they cost for ordinary shares is adjusted to take account may have to UK income tax.
Currently, the of subsequent rights and capitalisation issues.
Any associated tax credit is equivalent to 10% of the capital gain arising on a disposal by a UK company combined cash dividend and tax credit, i. e. one-ninth may also be adjusted to take account of indexation of the cash dividend.
If in doubt, shareholders are recommended to consult their professional advisers.
For individual shareholders who are resident in the UK for taxation purposes and liable to UK Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax income tax at the basic rate, no further UK income tax liability arises on the receipt of a dividend from Transfers of shares by a written instrument of HSBC Holdings.
Individual shareholders who transfer generally will be subject to UK stamp duty are liable to UK income tax at the higher rate or at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration paid for the additional rate are taxed on the combined amount transfer, and such stamp duty is generally payable of the dividend and the tax credit at the dividend by the transferee.
upper rate currently 32.5% and the dividend An agreement to transfer shares, or any interest additional rate currently 37.5%, respectively.
The therein, normally will give rise to a charge to stamp tax credit is available for set-off against the dividend duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5% of the upper rate and the dividend additional rate liability.
However, provided an instrument Individual UK resident shareholders are not entitled of transfer of the shares is executed pursuant to the to any tax credit repayment.
agreement and duly stamped before the date on Although non-UK resident shareholders are which the stamp duty reserve tax becomes payable, generally not entitled to any repayment of the tax under the current practice of UK HM Revenue and credit in respect of any UK dividend received, some Customs it will not be necessary to pay the stamp such shareholders may be so entitled under the duty reserve tax, nor to apply for such tax to be provisions of a double taxation agreement between cancelled.
Stamp duty reserve tax is generally their country of residence and the UK.
However, in payable by the transferee.
most cases no amount of the tax credit is, in practice, repayable.
571 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information continued Taxation of shares and dividends Paperless transfers of shares within CREST, the Taxation of dividends UKs paperless share transfer system, are liable to Currently no tax is withheld from dividends paid by stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5% of the HSBC Holdings.
For US tax purposes, a US holder consideration.
In CREST transactions, the tax must include cash dividends paid on the shares or is calculated and payment made automatically.
ADSs in ordinary income on the date that such Deposits of shares into CREST generally will not be holder or the ADS depositary receives them, subject to stamp duty reserve tax, unless the transfer translating dividends paid in UK pounds sterling into into CREST is itself for consideration.
Following the US dollars using the exchange rate in effect on the case HSBC pursued before the European Court of date of receipt.
A US holder that elects to receive Justice Case C-569 07 HSBC Holdings plc and shares in lieu of a cash dividend must include in Vidacos Nominees Ltd v The Commissioners for ordinary income the fair market value of such shares HM Revenue & Customs and a subsequent case in on the dividend payment date, and the tax basis of relation to depositary receipts, HMRC now accepts those shares will equal such fair market value.
that the charge to stamp duty reserve tax at 1.5% on the issue of shares to a depositary receipt issuer or a Subject to certain exceptions for positions that clearance service is prohibited.
are held for less than 61 days or are hedged, and subject to a foreign corporation being considered a Taxation US residents qualified foreign corporation which includes not being classified for US federal income tax purposes The following is a summary, under current law, as a passive foreign investment company, certain of the principal UK tax and US federal income tax dividends qualified dividends received by an considerations that are likely to be material to the individual US holder generally will be subject to ownership and disposition of shares or American US taxation at preferential rates.
Based on the Depositary Shares ADSs by a holder that is a companys audited financial statements and relevant resident of the US for US federal income tax market and shareholder data, HSBC Holdings does purposes a US holder and who is not resident in not anticipate being classified as a passive foreign the UK for UK tax purposes.
Accordingly, dividends paid The summary does not purport to be a on the shares or ADSs generally should be treated comprehensive description of all of the tax as qualified dividends.
considerations that may be relevant to a holder of shares or ADSs.
In particular, the summary deals Taxation of capital gains only with US holders that hold shares or ADSs as Gains realised by a US holder on the sale or other capital assets, and does not address the tax treatment disposition of shares or ADSs normally will not be of holders that are subject to special tax rules, such subject to UK taxation unless at the time of the sale as banks, tax-exempt entities, insurance companies, or other disposition the holder carries on a trade, dealers in securities or currencies, persons that hold profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or shares or ADSs as part of an integrated investment agency or permanent establishment and the shares or including a straddle comprised of a share or ADS ADSs are or have been used, held or acquired for the and one or more other positions, and persons that purposes of such trade, profession, vocation, branch own, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the or agency or permanent establishment.
Such gains voting stock of HSBC Holdings.
This discussion will be included in income for US tax purposes, and is based on laws, treaties, judicial decisions and will be long-term capital gains if the shares or ADSs regulatory interpretations in effect on the date were held for more than one year.
A long-term hereof, all of which are subject to change.
capital gain realised by an individual US holder Holders and prospective purchasers should generally will be subject to US tax at preferential consult their own advisers regarding the tax rates.
consequences of an investment in shares or ADSs in light of their particular circumstances, including Inheritance tax the effect of any national, state or local laws.
Shares or ADSs held by an individual whose Any US federal tax advice included in this domicile is determined to be the US for the purposes Annual Report and Accounts is for informational of the United States-United Kingdom Double purposes only: it was not intended or written to be Taxation Convention relating to estate and gift taxes used, and cannot be used, for the purpose of the Estate Tax Treaty and who is not for such avoiding US federal tax penalties.
purposes a national of the UK will not, provided 572 any US federal estate or gift tax chargeable has No stamp duty will be payable on the transfer been paid, be subject to UK inheritance tax on the of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS, provided that individuals death or on a lifetime transfer of shares the ADR and any separate instrument of transfer or ADSs except in certain cases where the shares or or written agreement to transfer remain at all times ADSs i are comprised in a settlement unless, at outside the UK, and provided further that any such the time of the settlement, the settlor was domiciled transfer or written agreement to transfer is not in the US and was not a national of the UK, ii is executed in the UK.
No stamp duty reserve tax will part of the business property of a UK permanent be payable on a transfer of, or agreement to transfer, establishment of an enterprise, or iii pertains to an ADS effected by the transfer of an ADR.
a UK fixed base of an individual used for the performance of independent personal services.
US backup withholding tax and information In such cases, the Estate Tax Treaty generally reporting provides a credit against US federal tax liability Distributions made on shares or ADSs and proceeds for the amount of any tax paid in the UK in a case from the sale of shares or ADSs that are paid within where the shares or ADSs are subject to both UK the US, or through certain financial intermediaries to inheritance tax and to US federal estate or gift tax.
US holders, are subject to information reporting and may be subject to a US backup withholding tax Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax unless, in general, the US holder complies with ADSs certain certification procedures or is a corporation or If shares are transferred to a clearance service or other person exempt from such withholding.
Holders American Depositary Receipt ADR issuer which that are not US persons generally are not subject to will include a transfer of shares to the Depositary information reporting or backup withholding tax, under the current HMRC practice UK stamp duty but may be required to comply with applicable and or stamp duty reserve tax will be payable.
The certification procedures to establish that they are not stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax is generally US persons in order to avoid the application of such payable on the consideration for the transfer and is information reporting requirements or backup payable at the aggregate rate of 1.5%.
withholding tax to payments received within the US or through certain financial intermediaries.
The amount of stamp duty reserve tax payable on such a transfer will be reduced by any stamp duty paid in connection with the same transfer.
573 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
