HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Independent Auditors Report to the Members of HSBC Holdings plc only Report The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the key reporting components were generally performed in accordance with the materiality levels used for local audits, which were set individually.
Materiality used at the components ranged from US$35m to US$1,173m.
Detailed audit instructions were sent to the auditors of all the key reporting components.
These instructions covered the significant audit areas that should be covered by these audits which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group audit team visited locations in all of the regions listed above and teams from components in each region attended a Group audit planning meeting.
The Group audit team also held regular telephone meetings with the regional and local auditors at all the regional locations and the majority of those other locations that were not physically visited.
In addition, regional audit teams visited locations of key components within their regions.
Our separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB is unmodified As explained in Note 1 a on the Group financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the EU, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
In our opinion, the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We have nothing to report in respect of matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report and Accounts describing the work of the Group Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Group Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 367, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 specified for our review.
