HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Footnotes Notes on the Financial Statements 1 Basis of preparation 1 Basis of preparation a Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards The consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and as endorsed by the EU.
EU-endorsed IFRSs could differ from IFRSs as issued by the IASB if, at any point in time, new or amended IFRSs were not to be endorsed by the EU.
At 31 December 2013, there were no unendorsed standards effective for the year ended 31 December 2013 affecting these consolidated and separate financial statements, and there was no difference between IFRSs endorsed by the EU and IFRSs issued by the IASB in terms of their application to HSBC.
Accordingly, HSBCs financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 are prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
IFRSs comprise accounting standards issued by the IASB and its predecessor body as well as interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC and its predecessor body.
Standards adopted during the year ended 31 December 2013 On 1 January 2013, HSBC adopted the following significant new standards and amendments to standards.
The financial effect of these new standards and amendments is insignificant to these consolidated financial statements: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities and amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 Transition Guidance are required to be applied retrospectively.
Under IFRS 10, there is one approach for determining consolidation for all entities, based on the concepts of power, variability of returns and their linkage.
This replaces the approach which applied to previous financial statements which emphasised legal control or exposure to risks and rewards, depending on the nature of the entity.
HSBC controls and consequently consolidates an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns by exercising its power over the entity.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 10, we reviewed the population of investments in entities as at 1 January 2013 to determine whether entities previously consolidated or unconsolidated in accordance with IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements and SIC 12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities changed their consolidation status as a result of applying IFRS 10.
The result of this review was that the effect of applying the requirements of IFRS 10 did not have a material effect on these consolidated financial statements.
Therefore no restatements are necessary on application of IFRS 10.
IFRS 11 places more focus on the investors rights and obligations than on the structure of the arrangement when determining the type of joint arrangement with which HSBC is involved, unlike the previous approach, and introduces the concept of a joint operation.
The application of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements did not have a material effect on these consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 12 is a comprehensive standard on disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including for unconsolidated structured entities.
The disclosure requirements of IFRS 12 do not require comparative information to be provided for periods prior to initial application.
New disclosures are provided in Note 42.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement establishes a single framework for measuring fair value and introduces new requirements for disclosure of fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 is required to be applied prospectively from the beginning of the first annual period in which it is applied.
The disclosure requirements of IFRS 13 do not require comparative information to be provided for periods prior to initial application.
Disclosures are provided in Notes 15 and 16.
Amendments to IFRS 7 Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities requires disclosure of the effect or potential effects of netting arrangements on an entitys financial position.
The amendment requires disclosure of recognised financial instruments that are subject to an enforceable master 428
