HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Strategic Report continued Strategic priority 1 Grow the business and dividends Operating model Operating model there are sufficient cash resources to pay dividends to shareholders, interest to bondholders, expenses Our operating model is based on a matrix and taxes.
management structure comprising global HSBC Holdings does not provide core funding businesses, geographical regions and global to any banking subsidiary, nor is a lender of last functions.
resort and does not carry out any banking business in The matrix is overlaid on a legal entity structure its own right.
Subsidiaries operate as separately headed by HSBC Holdings plc.
capitalised entities implementing the Group strategy.
Holding company Matrix management structure HSBC Holdings, the holding company of the The following table lists our four global businesses, Group, is the primary source of equity capital for six geographical regions and 11 global functions, its subsidiaries and provides non-equity capital to and summarises their responsibilities under HSBCs them when necessary.
Under authority delegated by the Board of For details of our principal subsidiaries see Note 24 on the HSBC Holdings, the Group Management Board Financial Statements.
A simplified Group structure chart is provided on page 570.
GMB is responsible for the management and dayto-day running of the Group, within the risk appetite set by the Board.
GMB works to ensure that Matrix management structure HSBC Holdings plc Global Geographical Global businesses regions functions Retail Banking and Europe Communications Wealth Management Company Secretaries Hong Kong Corporate Sustainability Commercial Banking Rest of Asia-Pacific Finance Global Banking and Markets HSBC Technology and Services Middle East and North Africa Human Resources Global Private Banking North America Internal Audit Legal Latin America Marketing Risk including Compliance Strategy and Planning Responsible for setting globally consistent Share responsibility for executing business Establish and manage all policies, business strategies and operating models, strategies set by the global businesses.
processes and delivery platforms relevant issuing planning guidance regarding their They represent the Group to customers, to their activities, are fully accountable for businesses, and are accountable for their regulators, employee groups and other their costs globally and are responsible for profit and loss performance and for stakeholders: allocate capital: manage managing their headcount.
risk appetite, liquidity and funding by legal entity: and are accountable for profit and loss performance in line with global business plans.
Legal entities Operate under their own boards of directors as separately capitalised entities, implementing Group strategy and delivering Group products and services.
They are required to consider risk and maintain a capital buffer consistent with the Groups risk appetite for their relevant country or region.
They manage their own funding and liquidity within parameters set centrally.
14 Global businesses within the parameters of the Group strategy in liaison with the geographical regions, are responsible Our four global businesses are Retail Banking and for issuing planning guidance regarding their Wealth Management RBWM, Commercial businesses, are accountable for their profit and loss Banking CMB, Global Banking and Markets performance, and manage their headcount.
GB&M and Global Private Banking GPB.
They are responsible for developing, implementing The main business activities of our global business are summarised below, and their products and services on and managing their business propositions page 79. consistently across the Group, focusing on profitability and efficiency.
They set their strategies 5 Main business activities by global business and reported revenue in 2013 Global RBWM CMB GB&M GPB businesses Deposits Deposits Deposits Deposits Account services Payments and cash Payments and cash Account services Liability management management driven Balance sheet management Credit and lending Credit and lending Credit and lending Credit and lending Asset International trade and Asset and trade finance driven receivables finance 7 9 Asset management Commercial insurance Corporate finance Asset management and investments 8 10 Wealth solutions and Markets Financial advisory financial planning 6 Fee driven Securities services Broking 6 Broking and other Corporate finance 7 Life insurance via GB&M manufacturing 11 Alternative investments For footnotes, see page 46.
Investment criteria Risk the investment must be consistent with our risk appetite.
Our investment criteria are governed by six filters.
The first two filters international connectivity and Using the six filters in decision-making economic development determine whether the What is the Are the current business is strategically relevant.
The next three strategic returns Do we adhere to filters profitability, efficiency and liquidity relevance?
determine whether the financial position of the 1.
Financial crime risk business is attractive.
The sixth filter the risk of 2.
Efficiency development financial crime governs our activities in high risk 5.
Liquidity Low High jurisdictions, and is applied to protect us by Risk Yes Invest restricting the scope of our business where mitigation High appropriate.
Turnaround Risk No improve mitigation Decisions over where to invest additional Continue Risk resources have three components: Yes as is mitigation Medium low Strategic we will only invest in businesses No Discontinue dispose aligned to our strategy, mostly in our 22 home and priority growth markets and in target businesses and clients: Financial the investment must be value accretive for the Group, and must meet minimum returns, revenue and cost hurdles: and 15 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
