The risk Our response Valuation of financial instruments Refer to the summary of critical accounting policies on pages 72 to 76, the Group Audit Committee Report on pages 348 to 352, the disclosures of market risk within the audited elements of the Risk section of the Financial Review on pages 134 to 297 and the disclosures of fair values in Notes 13 to 19, 26 and 27 on the Financial Statements.
The fair value of financial instruments is Our audit procedures included the assessment of controls over the determined through the application of identification, measurement and management of valuation risk, and valuation techniques which often involve the evaluating the methodologies, inputs and assumptions used by the exercise of judgement by the directors and Group in determining fair values.
the use of assumptions and estimates.
We compared observable inputs into fair value models such as Due to the significance of financial quoted prices to externally available market data and assessed instruments and the related estimation whether valuation models and methodologies used by the Group uncertainty, this is considered a key audit were in line with accepted market practice.
For instruments with significant unobservable valuation inputs, we Estimation uncertainty is particularly high for performed additional procedures on a sample basis and with the those instruments where significant valuation assistance of our own valuation specialists.
We critically assessed inputs are unobservable i. e. Level 3 the assumptions and models used or re-performed an independent instruments.
valuation assessment, considering alternative methods available and sensitivities to key factors.
In 2013, we have focussed particularly on industry-wide developments in the valuation Additionally, we assessed whether the financial statement of credit and collateral within derivative fair disclosures of fair value risks and sensitivities appropriately values and the methodologies applied by the reflect the Groups exposure to valuation risk.
Litigation, regulatory actions and customer remediation Refer to the summary of critical accounting policies on pages 72 to 76, the Group Audit Committee Report on pages 348 to 352, and the disclosures of provisions and contingent liabilities in Notes 31 and 43 on the Financial Statements.
The recognition and measurement of Our audit procedures included the assessment of controls over the provisions and the measurement and identification, evaluation and measurement of potential obligations disclosure of contingent liabilities in respect arising from legal and regulatory matters.
For matters identified, we of litigation, regulatory actions and customer considered whether an obligation exists, the appropriateness of remediation together legal and regulatory provisioning and or disclosure based upon the facts and matters requires significant judgement.
In order to determine the facts and to the significance of potential provisions and circumstances we performed a series of procedures including the the difficulty in assessing and measuring examination of regulatory and litigation related documents and obligations resulting from ongoing legal and consultation with the Groups internal and external legal advisors.
regulatory matters, this is considered a key We then assessed the assumptions made and key judgements audit risk.
applied and we considered possible alternative outcomes.
In 2013, we have focussed particularly on Additionally we considered whether the Groups disclosures of the whether an obligation exists and the quantum application of judgement in estimating provisions and contingent of provisions for customer redress for past liabilities adequately reflected the uncertainties associated with selling issues, particularly in the UK, and litigation, regulatory actions and customer remediation.
legal regulatory losses on businesses and sold products.
411 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Independent Auditors Report to the Members of HSBC Holdings plc only Report The risk Our response Deferred tax assets Refer to the summary of critical accounting policies on pages 72 to 76, the Group Audit Committee Report on pages 348 to 352 and the disclosures of deferred taxation in Note 9 on the Financial Statements.
The recognition of deferred tax assets relies Our audit procedures included the assessment of controls over on significant application of judgement by the the recognition and measurement of deferred tax assets and the directors in respect of assessing the assessment of assumptions used in projecting the Groups future probability and sufficiency of future taxable taxable profits in relevant jurisdictions.
Assumptions tested profits, future reversals of existing taxable included the Groups commitment to continue to invest sufficient temporary differences and ongoing tax capital in the US and evaluation of the expected impact of tax planning strategies.
planning strategies that support the recoverability of deferred tax assets.
Due to the size of the Groups deferred tax assets and the associated uncertainty We compared key inputs used by the Group to forecast future surrounding recoverability, this is considered profits to externally available data, e. g. economic forecasts, and a key audit risk.
the Groups own historical data.
We used our own tax specialists to assess critically future tax planning strategies.
The deferred tax assets giving rise to the greatest risks are those in the US, Brazil, UK Where tax treatment may be uncertain, we have assessed the and Mexico.
appropriateness of the Groups approach, which is often supported by external legal or tax advice, using our tax In 2013 we have considered each of these specialists and considered possible alternative scenarios.
significant assets and our focus has included changes in tax legislation and practice in Additionally, we assessed whether the Groups disclosures of the Mexico and, within the UK tax group, the application of judgement in estimating recognised and ability of the parent company to generate unrecognised deferred tax asset balances appropriately reflect the sufficient future income to offset current year Groups deferred tax position.
This risk also affected our parent company audit.
Goodwill impairment Refer to the summary of critical accounting policies on pages 72 to 76, the Group Audit Committee Report on pages 348 to 352 and the disclosures of goodwill in Note 22 on the Financial Statements.
Goodwill impairment testing of cash Our audit procedures included the assessment of controls over generating units CGUs utilises estimates the recognition and measurement of goodwill impairment and of value-in-use from estimated future cash assumptions used.
Assumptions tested include the cash flow flows.
projections based on the plans approved by the Board and the discount rates used to discount them as part of the value-in-use Due to the uncertainty of forecasting and models applied.
discounting future cash flows and the significance of the Groups recognised We assessed the reasonableness of cash flow projections and goodwill, this is deemed a significant risk.
compared other key inputs to externally available industry, economic and financial data and the Groups own historical data Uncertainty is typically highest for those and considered the sensitivity of significant CGUs to changes CGUs where headroom between value-in-use in value-in-use.
With the assistance of our own specialists, we and carrying value is limited and where the critically assessed the assumptions and methodologies used to value-in-use is most sensitive to estimates of forecast value-in-use for those CGUs where significant goodwill future cash flows.
was found to be sensitive to changes in those assumptions.
In 2013, we continued to focus on businesses Additionally we considered whether the Groups disclosures of which are subject to structural reform or the application of judgement in estimating CGU cash flows and repositioning, particularly GPB businesses the sensitivity of the results of those estimates in Note 22 on the in Europe.
financial statements adequately reflect the risks associated with goodwill impairment.
On an overall basis, we also compared aggregate values in use determined by the Group to external market valuations.
