HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Appendix Other required disclosures Share capital Appendix to Report of the Directors Other required disclosures Share capital Issued share capital The nominal value of our issued share capital paid up at 31 December 2013 was US$9,415,018,019.50 divided into 18,830,007,039 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each, 1,450,000 non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each and 1 non-cumulative preference share of 0.01.
The percentage of the nominal value of our total issued share capital paid up at 31 December 2013 represented by the ordinary shares of US$0.50 each, non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each and the non-cumulative preference share of 0.01 was approximately 99.9998%, 0.0002%, and 0%, respectively.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares The rights and obligations attaching to each class of shares in our share capital are set out in our Articles of Association subject to certain rights and obligations that attach to each class of preference share as determined by the Board prior to allotment of the relevant preference shares.
Set out below is a summary of the rights and obligations attaching to each class of shares with respect to voting, dividends, capital and, in the case of the preference shares, redemption.
To be registered, a transfer of shares must be in relation to shares which are fully paid up and on which we have no lien and to one class of shares denominated in the same currency.
The transfer must be in favour of a single transferee or no more than four joint transferees and it must be duly stamped if required.
The transfer must be delivered to our registered office or our Registrars accompanied by the certificate to which it relates or such other evidence that proves the title of the transferor.
If a shareholder or any person appearing to be interested in our shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public companies the power to require information from any person whom we know or have reasonable cause to believe to be interested in the shares and has failed in relation to any shares the default shares to supply the information requested within the period set out in the notice, then the member, unless the Board otherwise determines, is not entitled to be present at or to vote the default shares at any general meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder.
If the default shares represent at least 0.25% in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, unless the Board otherwise determines, any dividend shall be withheld by the Company without interest, no election may be made for any scrip dividend alternative, and no transfer of any shares held by the member will be registered except in limited circumstances.
Ordinary shares Subject to the Companies Act 2006 and the Articles HSBC Holdings may, by ordinary resolution, declare dividends to be paid to the holders of ordinary shares, though no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends as appears to the Board to be justified by the profits available for distribution.
All dividends shall be apportioned and paid proportionately to the percentage of the nominal amount paid up on the shares during any portion or portions of the period in respect of which the dividend is paid, but if any share is issued on terms providing that it shall rank for dividend as from a particular date, it shall rank for dividend accordingly.
Subject to the Articles, the Board may, with the prior authority of an ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders and subject to such terms and conditions as the Board may determine, offer to any holders of ordinary shares the right to elect to receive ordinary shares of the same or a different currency, credited as fully paid, instead of cash in any currency in respect of the whole or some part, to be determined by the Board of any dividend specified by the ordinary resolution.
At the 2012 Annual General Meeting shareholders gave authority to the Directors to offer a scrip dividend alternative until the earlier of the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2017 or 24 May 2017.
Further information on the policy adopted by the Board for paying interim dividends on the ordinary shares can be found on page 567.
