British American Tobacco 123 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the Accounts countries, including life expectancy of scheme members, salary 1 Accounting policies and pension increases, inflation, as well as discount rates and asset Basis of Accounting values at the year end.
The assumptions used by the Group and The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance sensitivity analysis are described in note 12: with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act the estimation of amounts to be recognised in respect of taxation 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
and legal matters, and the estimation of other provisions for liabilities and charges are subject to uncertain future events, may The financial statements have been prepared under the historical extend over several years and so the amount and or timing may cost convention except as described in the accounting policy below differ from current assumptions.
The accounting policy for taxation on financial instruments.
is explained below and the recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities, together with a note of unrecognised amounts, are With effect from 1 January 2013 the Group has adopted the revised shown in note 6 b and note 13.
Other provisions for liabilities IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The revised standard has not changed and charges are as set out in note 22.
The accounting policy on the values of retirement benefit assets and liabilities on the balance contingent liabilities, which are not provided for, is set out below sheet, but has changed the amounts recognised in the income and the contingent liabilities of the Group are explained in note 30: statement and in other comprehensive income.
The expected return on scheme assets and the interest cost on liabilities have been the definition of adjusting items, which are separately disclosed as replaced by a new component of the income statement charge memorandum information, is explained below and the impact of interest on the net retirement benefit asset liability.
The revised these on the calculation of adjusted earnings is described in note 7: standard has retrospective application and has reduced the profit for the year to 31 December 2012 by 46 million, with compensating the estimation of the fair values of acquired net assets arising credits in other comprehensive income, as is shown in note 12. in a business combination and the allocation of the purchase consideration between the underlying net assets acquired, The Group has early adopted IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial including intangible assets other than goodwill, on the basis of Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and IFRS 12 Disclosure of their fair values.
These estimates are prepared in conjunction with Interests in Other Entities with effect from 1 January 2013 along the advice of independent valuation experts where appropriate.
with the revised versions of IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements The relevant transactions for 2013 and 2012 are described in and IAS 28 Associates.
IAS 31 Joint Ventures has been withdrawn by note 26: the IASB.
These standards form a single package of proposals with mandatory application in the EU from 1 January 2014.
The aim of the review of applicable exchange rates for transactions with and these standards is to improve the quality of reporting in relation translation of entities in territories where there are restrictions on to the consolidation of subsidiaries, special purpose vehicles and the free access to foreign currency, or multiple exchange rates: and accounting for joint arrangements.
While the requirements of IFRS the exemptions taken under IFRS 1 on the first time adoption of 12 has lengthened certain disclosures in respect of Group entities, IFRS at 1 January 2004 and, in particular, those relating to goodwill the requirements of these standards have not materially affected on business combinations which are explained in the accounting the Group.
In addition, with effect from 1 January 2013 the Group has adopted Such estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience a number of minor changes to IFRS including the amendment to IAS and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable in the 1 Presentation of Financial Statements which changes the presentation circumstances and constitute managements best judgement at the of certain items within other comprehensive income grouping them date of the financial statements.
In the future, actual experience into items which recycle to profit and loss and items which will not, may deviate from these estimates and assumptions, which could and IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement which provides a single source affect the financial statements as the original estimates and of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across assumptions are modified, as appropriate, in the year in which the IFRS.
The implementation of IFRS 13 does not require a restatement circumstances change.
Basis of consolidation The preparation of the Group financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the The consolidated financial information includes the financial reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and statements of British American Tobacco p. l. c. and its subsidiary the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial undertakings, together with the Groups share of the results of its statements.
The key estimates and assumptions are set out in associates and joint arrangements.
the accounting policies below, together with the related notes to the accounts.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable The most significant items include: returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
the review of asset values, especially goodwill and impairment testing.
The key assumptions used in respect of goodwill and impairment testing are the determination of cash-generating units, the long-term growth rate for cash flow projections and the rate used to discount the cash flow projections.
These are described in note 9: the estimation of and accounting for retirement benefit costs.
The determination of the carrying value of assets and liabilities, as well as the charge for the year, and amounts recognised in other comprehensive income, involves judgments made in conjunction with independent actuaries.
These involve estimates about uncertain future events based on the environment in different British American Tobacco 124 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued Where a disposal of an investment in a Group undertaking results 1 Accounting policies continued in a loss of control of a subsidiary undertaking, the loss of significant Associates comprise investments in undertakings, which are not influence over an associated company or the loss of joint control subsidiary undertakings or joint arrangements, where the Groups over a joint arrangement, the cumulative amount of the related interest in the equity capital is long term and over whose operating foreign exchange differences deferred in the separate component and financial policies the Group exercises a significant influence.
of equity are recognised in the income statement when the gain or They are accounted for using the equity method.
loss on disposal is recognised.
These related exchange differences comprise the exchange differences on all amounts deemed to be Joint arrangements comprise contractual arrangements where two part of the net investment in the undertaking, which are recycled or more parties have joint control and where decisions regarding to the income statement when a disposal occurs.
For partial the relevant activities of the entity require unanimous consent.
disposals of subsidiary undertakings the related exchange differences Joint operations are jointly-controlled arrangements where the are reclassified within equity.
For all other partial disposals the parties to the arrangement have rights to the underlying assets and proportional share of the related exchange differences is recycled to obligations for the underlying liabilities relating to the arrangement.
The Group accounts for its share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of any such arrangement.
Joint ventures comprise Foreign currency transactions are initially recognised in the arrangements where the parties to the arrangement have rights to functional currency of each entity in the Group using the exchange the net assets of the arrangement.
They are accounted for using the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains equity method.
and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of foreign currency assets and liabilities at The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the period year-end rates of exchange are recognised in the income statement, are included from the date of acquisition of a controlling interest except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges, on at which date, for the purposes of consolidation, the purchase inter-company net investment loans and qualifying net investment consideration is allocated between the underlying net assets hedges.
Foreign exchange gains or losses recognised in the income acquired, including intangible assets other than goodwill, on the statement are included in profit from operations or net finance costs basis of their fair value.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as depending on the underlying transactions that gave rise to these incurred.
Similarly, the results of associates and joint arrangements exchange differences.
are included from the date of acquiring significant influence or joint control respectively.
Revenue Revenue principally comprises sales of cigarettes, cigars, leaf and The results of subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint other tobacco products to external customers.
Revenue excludes arrangements which have been sold during the year are included duty, excise and other taxes and is after deducting rebates, returns up to the date of disposal.
The profit or loss on sale is calculated by and other similar discounts.
Revenue is recognised when the reference to the net asset value at the date of disposal, adjusted for significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to a purchased goodwill previously consolidated in the balance sheet.
Inter-company balances and transactions, and any unrealised gains arising from inter-company transactions, are eliminated in preparing Retirement benefit costs the consolidated financial statements.
The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
The net deficit or surplus for each defined benefit pension Foreign currencies scheme is calculated in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits, The functional currency of the Parent Company is sterling and this based on the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the is also the presentation currency of the Group.
The income and balance sheet date less the fair value of the scheme assets adjusted, cash flow statements of Group undertakings expressed in currencies where appropriate, for any surplus restrictions or the effect of other than sterling are translated to sterling using exchange minimum funding requirements.
rates applicable to the dates of the underlying transactions.
Actuarial gains and losses, changes in unrecognised scheme Average rates of exchange in each year are used where the average surpluses and minimum funding requirements are recognised in full rate approximates the relevant exchange rate at the date of the through other comprehensive income.
Past service costs resulting underlying transactions.
Assets and liabilities of Group undertakings from enhanced benefits are recognised immediately.
are translated at the applicable rates of exchange at the end of each year.
In territories where there are restrictions on the free access to The Group also has certain post-retirement healthcare schemes foreign currency or multiple exchange rates, the applicable rates of and they are accounted for on a similar basis to the defined benefit exchange are regularly reviewed.
For hyperinflationary countries, the financial statements in local For defined benefit schemes, the actuarial cost charged to profit currency are adjusted to reflect the impact of local inflation prior to from operations consists of current service cost, net interest on the translation into sterling.
net defined benefit liability or asset, past service cost and the impact of any settlements or curtailments.
The differences between retained profits of overseas subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint arrangements translated at Some benefits are provided through defined contribution schemes average and closing rates of exchange are taken to reserves, as are and payments to these are charged as an expense as they fall due.
differences arising on the retranslation to sterling using closing rates of exchange of overseas net assets at the beginning of the year.
Any differences that have arisen since 1 January 2004 are presented as a separate component of equity.
As permitted under IFRS 1, any differences prior to that date are not included in this separate component of equity.
British American Tobacco 125 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Goodwill 1 Accounting policies continued Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and is considered Share-based payments to have an indefinite life subject to impairment reviews.
The Group has equity-settled and cash-settled share-based Any impairment of goodwill is recognised immediately in the compensation plans.
income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition of a at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date subsidiary, associate or joint venture over the Groups share of the of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired.
Goodwill is stated at cost vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of awards that will net of accumulated impairment losses and recognised amortisation eventually vest.
For plans where vesting conditions are based on prior to 1 January 2004. total shareholder returns, the fair value at date of grant reflects these conditions, whereas earnings per share vesting conditions are The Groups policy up to and including 1997 was to eliminate reflected in the calculation of awards that will eventually vest over goodwill against reserves.
Goodwill acquired from 1998 to the vesting period.
For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability 31 December 2003 was capitalised and amortised over its useful equal to the portion of the services received is recognised at its economic life.
current fair value determined at each balance sheet date.
Fair value is measured by the use of the Black-Scholes option pricing model, As permitted under IFRS 1, in respect of acquisitions prior to except where vesting is dependent on market conditions when the 1 January 2004, the classification and accounting treatment of Monte-Carlo option pricing model is used.
The expected life used business combinations was not amended on transition to IFRS.
in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best Goodwill previously written off direct to reserves is not recycled to estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions the income statement on the disposal of the subsidiary, associate or and behavioural considerations.
joint venture to which it relates.
Research and development Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
In respect of associates and joint ventures, goodwill is included in the Research expenditure is charged to income in the year in which it carrying value of the investment in the associated company or joint is incurred.
Development expenditure is charged to income in the venture.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, the year it is incurred, unless it meets the recognition criteria of IAS 38 attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of Intangible Assets.
the profit or loss on disposal.
Taxation Intangible assets other than goodwill Taxation is that chargeable on the profits for the period, together The intangible assets shown on the Group Balance Sheet with deferred taxation.
consist mainly of trademarks and similar intangibles, including The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax certain intellectual property, acquired by the Groups subsidiary laws enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date in undertakings and computer software.
the countries where the Groups subsidiaries, associates and joint Acquired trademarks and similar assets are carried at cost less arrangements operate and generate taxable income.
Trademarks with Deferred taxation is provided in full using the liability method for indefinite lives are not amortised but are reviewed annually for temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and impairment.
Intangible assets other than goodwill classified as liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amount used for held-for-sale are not amortised.
Other trademarks and similar assets taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences are amortised on a straight-line basis over their remaining useful arising on investments in Group undertakings, except where the lives, consistent with the pattern of economic benefits expected timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by tobe received, which do not exceed 20 years.
Any impairments the Group and it is probable that it will not reverse in the foreseeable oftrademarks are recognised in the income statement but increases future.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is in trademark values are not recognised.
probable that future taxable profits will be available against which Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation the asset can be utilised.
As required under IAS 12 Income Taxes, and impairment, and, with the exception of global software deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
solutions, is amortised on a straight-line basis over periods ranging Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates that have been from three years to seven years.
Global software solutions are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are software assets designed to be implemented on a global basis and expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or used as a standard solution by all of the operating companies in deferred tax liability is settled.
These assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over periods not exceeding 10 years.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income The investments in associates and joint ventures shown in the Group or directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in other Balance Sheet include trademarks arising from the combination comprehensive income or changes in equity.
of Brown & Williamson B&W and R J Reynolds RJR in 2004 to form Reynolds American Inc. RAI, as well as those arising on the The Group has exposures in respect of the payment or recovery of a acquisition of Conwood by RAI in 2006.
As the combination of B&W number of taxes.
Liabilities or assets for these payments or recoveries and RJR for the Group involved the partial disposal of B&W and an are recognised at such time as an outcome becomes probable and investment in RAI, fair values were assigned to trademarks formerly when the amount can reasonably be estimated.
owned by RJR but not to those formerly owned by B&W.
Most of the carrying value of the trademarks relates to trademarks which are deemed to have indefinite lives and each trademark is subject to an annual impairment test.
Certain minor trademarks are being amortised over their remaining lives.
British American Tobacco 126 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued Impairment of financial assets 1 Accounting policies continued Financial assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date, or Property, plant and equipment whenever events indicate that the carrying amount may not be Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated recoverable.
In the case of equity investments classified as  and impairment.
Depreciation is calculated on a for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the straight-line basis to write off the assets over their useful economic investment below its cost is considered as an indicator that the life.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land or assets classified investment is impaired.
Freehold and leasehold property are depreciated at rates between 2.5% and 4% per annum, and plant and equipment Inventories at rates between 7% and 25% per annum.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is based on the weighted average cost incurred in acquiring Capitalised interest inventories and bringing them to their existing location and Borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the acquisition, condition, which will include raw materials, direct labour and construction or production of intangible assets or plant, property overheads, where appropriate.
Net realisable value is the estimated and equipment that takes a substantial period of time to get ready selling price less costs to completion and sale.
Tobacco inventories for its intended use or sale, and for which the commencement date which have an operating cycle that exceeds 12 months are classified for capitalisation was on or after 1 January 2009, are capitalised as as current assets, consistent with recognised industry practice.
part of the cost of the asset, in accordance with IAS 23 Borrowing Costs.
The Groups previous policy was to expense such borrowing Financial instruments costs as they were incurred.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant Leased assets instrument and derecognised when it ceases to be a party to such Assets where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards provisions.
Such assets and liabilities are classified as current if they of ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance leases are expected to be realised or settled within 12 months after the and are included as part of property, plant and equipment.
If not, they are classified as non-current.
Finance lease assets are initially recognised at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair lease payments at inception of the lease, then depreciated over value, plus directly attributable transaction costs where applicable, the shorter of the lease term and their estimated useful lives.
with subsequent measurement as set out below.
Leasing payments consist of capital and finance charge elements and the finance element is charged to the income statement.
Non-derivative financial assets are classified on initial recognition as available-for-sale investments, loans and receivables or cash and cash Rental payments under operating leases are charged to the income equivalents as follows: statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Available-for-sale investments: available-for-sale investments are Where arrangements are entered into which, while they are not in those non-derivative financial assets that cannot be classified as loans the legal form of a lease, are in substance a lease under IFRIC 4, then and receivables or cash and cash equivalents.
they are recognised on the same basis as the leased assets above.
Loans and receivables: these are non-derivative financial assets Impairment of non-financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an Assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events indicate active market.
that the carrying amount of a cash-generating unit may not be Cash and cash equivalents: cash and cash equivalents include cash recoverable.
In addition, assets that have indefinite useful lives are in hand and deposits held on call, together with other short-term tested annually for impairment.
An impairment loss is recognised to highly liquid investments including investments in certain money the extent that the carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets market funds.
Cash equivalents normally comprise instruments with fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
maturities of three months or less at date of acquisition.
In the cash A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are shown net of bank that generates cash flows which are largely independent of the cash overdrafts, which are included as current borrowings in the liabilities flows from other assets or groups of assets.
At the acquisition date, section on the balance sheet.
any goodwill acquired is allocated to the relevant cash-generating unit or group of cash-generating units expected to benefit from the acquisition for the purpose of impairment testing of goodwill.
British American Tobacco 127 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials for derivatives that are designated as hedges of net investments in 1 Accounting policies continued foreign operations, the changes in their fair values are recognised Apart from available-for-sale investments, non-derivative financial directly in other comprehensive income, to the extent that they assets are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest are effective, with the ineffective portion being recognised in the method, subject to reduction for allowances for estimated income statement.
Where non-derivatives such as foreign currency irrecoverable amounts.
These estimates for irrecoverable amounts borrowings are designated as net investment hedges, the relevant are recognised when there is objective evidence that the full amount exchange differences are similarly recognised.
The accumulated receivable will not be collected according to the original terms gains and losses are reclassified to the income statement when the of the asset.
Such evidence might include financial difficulties of foreign operation is disposed of: and the debtor, defaults of payment or significant overdue balances.
For interest-bearing assets, their carrying value includes accrued for derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting or are interest receivable.
Available-for-sale investments are stated at fair not designated as hedges, the changes in their fair values are value, with changes in fair value being recognised directly in other recognised in the income statement in the period in which comprehensive income.
When such investments are derecognised they arise.
e. g. through disposal or become impaired, the accumulated gains and losses, previously recognised in other comprehensive income, In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to are reclassified to the income statement within finance income.
document prospectively the relationship between the item being Dividend and interest income on available-for-sale investments are hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to included within finance income when the Groups right to receive demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between the hedged payments is established.
item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing Fair values for quoted investments are based on observable market is reperformed periodically to ensure that the hedge has remained, prices.
If there is no active market for a financial asset, the fair value and is expected to remain, highly effective.
is established by using valuation techniques principally involving discounted cash flow analysis.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when a hedging instrument is derecognised e. g. through expiry or disposal, or no longer Non-derivative financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost using qualifies for hedge accounting.
Where the hedged item is a highly the effective interest method.
For borrowings, their carrying value probable forecast transaction, the related gains and losses remain in includes accrued interest payable, as well as unamortised issue costs.
equity until the transaction takes place, when they are reclassified to the income statement in the same manner as for cash flow Derivative financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised, and hedges as described above.
When a hedged future transaction is no subsequently measured, at fair value, which includes accrued interest longer expected to occur, any related gains and losses, previously receivable and payable where relevant.
Changes in their fair values recognised in other comprehensive income, are immediately are recognised as follows: reclassified to the income statement.
for derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges, the Derivative fair value changes recognised in the income statement are changes in their fair values are recognised directly in other either reflected in arriving at profit from operations if the hedged comprehensive income, to the extent that they are effective, item is similarly reflected or in finance costs.
with the ineffective portion being recognised in the income statement.
Where the hedged item results in a non-financial Dividends asset, the accumulated gains and losses, previously recognised Final dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are in other comprehensive income, are included in the initial recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the carrying value of the asset basis adjustment and recognised in period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys the income statement in the same periods as the hedged item.
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, while interim dividend Where the underlying transaction does not result in such an asset, distributions are recognised in the period in which the dividends are the accumulated gains and losses are reclassified to the income declared and paid.
statement in the same periods as the hedged item: for derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges, the carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted for the fair value changes attributable to the risk being hedged, with the corresponding entry being made in the income statement.
The changes in fair value of these derivatives are also recognised in the income statement: British American Tobacco 128 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued The Group records its external legal fees and other external 1 Accounting policies continued defence costs for tobacco-related and other litigation as these costs Segmental analysis are incurred.
The Group is organised and managed on the basis of its geographic regions.
These are the reportable segments for the Group as they Repurchase of share capital form the focus of the Groups internal reporting systems and are When share capital is repurchased the amount of consideration paid, the basis used by the chief operating decision maker, identified including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a deduction as the Management Board, for assessing performance and from equity.
Repurchased shares which are not cancelled, or shares allocating resources.
purchased for the employee share ownership trusts, are classified as treasury shares and presented as a deduction from total equity.
The Group is primarily a single product business providing cigarettes and other tobacco products.
While the Group has clearly Future changes to accounting policies differentiated brands, global segmentation between a wide portfolio Certain changes to IFRS will be applicable to the Group financial of brands is not part of the regular internally reported financial statements in future years.
Set out below are those which are information.
The results of next-generation products are not considered to affect the Group.
currently material to the Group.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments has been issued covering the first The prices agreed between Group companies for intra-group sales of and third phases of the IASBs project to replace IAS 39 Financial materials, manufactured goods, charges for royalties, commissions, Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
In its current form, it sets services and fees, are based on normal commercial practices which out requirements for the classification and measurement of financial would apply between independent businesses.
Royalty income, less assets and financial liabilities, as well as introducing a new model for related expenditure, is included in the region in which the licensor general hedge accounting.
All financial assets, including assets currently classified under IAS Adjusting items 39 as available-for-sale, to be measured at fair value through profit Adjusting items are significant items in the profit from operations, and loss unless the assets can be classified as held at amortised net finance costs, taxation and the Groups share of the post-tax cost.
Qualifying equity investments may have their fair value results of associates and joint ventures which individually or, if of a changes taken through other comprehensive income by election.
similar type, in aggregate, are relevant to an understanding of the Where the fair value option for certain financial liabilities is applied, Groups underlying financial performance.
While the disclosure of the portion of fair value changes representing own credit risk adjusting items is not required by IFRS, these items are separately would be recognised through other comprehensive income rather disclosed either as memorandum information on the face of the than the income statement.
The Group does not use the fair value income statement and in the segmental analyses, or in the notes to option for financial liabilities.
The requirements for general hedge accounting seek to better The Group believes that these items are useful to users of the Group align hedge accounting with the risk management activities of financial statements in helping them to understand the underlying anentity by removing or amending some of the rules within business performance and are used to derive the Groups principal IAS39.
While the flexibility within the new requirements might non-GAAP measures of adjusted profit from operations and adjusted allow companies to apply hedge accounting where previously they diluted earnings per share.
would not have been able to, the Group does not anticipate any material changes arising from these requirements.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when either a legal or constructive The effect of applying the standard in its current form is therefore obligation as a result of a past event exists at the balance sheet date, not considered to have a material impact on the Groups reported it is probable that an outflow of economic resources will be required profit or equity.
The impact on the Group of further changes to to settle the obligation and a reasonable estimate can be made of IFRS 9 and the impact of the second phase of the project, covering the amount of the obligation.
impairment, will be assessed when the IASB has finalised the proposed requirements.
A mandatory implementation date for Contingent liabilities and contingent assets IFRS9 has not been set by the IASB, but in any event the Standard has not been endorsed by the EU and will only become applicable Subsidiaries and associates companies are defendants in tobaccoonce that endorsement has occurred.
Provision for this litigation would be made at such time as an unfavourable outcome became probable In addition, a number of other interpretations and revisions to and the amount could be reasonably estimated.
existing standards have been issued which will be applicable to the Group financial statements in future years and which will have no Contingent assets are possible assets whose existence will only be material effect on reported profit or equity or on the disclosures in confirmed by future events not wholly within the control of the the financial statements.
entity and are not recognised as assets until the realisation of income is virtually certain.
British American Tobacco 129 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 2 Segmental analyses As the chief operating decision maker, the Management Board reviews external revenues and adjusted profit from operations to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources.
Interest income, interest expense and taxation are centrally managed and accordingly such items are not presented by segment as they are excluded from the measure of segment profitability.
The four geographic regions are the reportable segments for the Group as they form the focus of the Groups internal reporting systems and are the basis used by the Management Board for assessing performance and allocating resources.
The results of next-generation products are currently not material to the Group and are included within the Western Europe region.
The Management Board reviews current and prior year segmental revenue, adjusted profit from operations of subsidiaries and joint operations, and adjusted post-tax results of associates and joint ventures at constant rates of exchange.
The constant rate comparison provided for reporting segment information is based on a retranslation, at prior year exchange rates, of the current year results of the Groups overseas entities but, other than in exceptional circumstances, does not adjust for transactional gains and losses in operations which are generated by movements in exchange rates.
As a result, the 2013 segmental results were translated using the 2012 rates of exchange.
The 2012 figures are also stated at the 2012 rates of exchange.
The analyses of revenue for the 12 months to 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012, based on location of sales, are as follows: 2013 2012 Revenue Translation Revenue Constant rates exchange Current rates Revenue m m m m Asia-Pacific 4,448 245 4,203 4,214 Americas 3,579 262 3,317 3,460 Western Europe 3,493 142 3,635 3,442 EEMEA 4,302 197 4,105 4,074 Revenue 15,822 562 15,260 15,190 The analyses of profit from operations and the Groups share of the post-tax results of associates and joint ventures, reconciled to profit before taxation, are as follows: 2013 2012 Adjusted Adjusted Adjusted segment result Translation segment result Adjusting Segment result segment result Segment result Constant rates exchange Current rates items Current rates Restated Adjusting items Restated m m m m m m m m Asia-Pacific 1,787 94 1,693 21 1,672 1,663 80 1,583 Americas 1,453 89 1,364 61 1,303 1,391 64 1,327 Western Europe 1,222 51 1,273 140 1,133 1,175 99 1,076 EEMEA 1,579 89 1,490 72 1,418 1,412 26 1,386 Profit from operations 6,041 221 5,820 294 5,526 5,641 269 5,372 Net finance costs 466 456 Asia-Pacific 293 21 272 22 294 245 20 265 Americas 439 6 445 6 439 434 25 409 EEMEA 6 6 6 2 2 Share of post-tax results of associates and jointventures 738 15 723 16 739 681 5 676 Profit before taxation 5,799 5,592 The adjustments to profit from operations and the Groups share of the post-tax results of associates and joint ventures are explained in notes 3 e to 3 g and in note 5, respectively.
British American Tobacco 130 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued 2 Segmental analyses continued Adjusted profit from operations at constant rates of 6,041 million 2012: 5,641 million excludes certain depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges as explained in notes 3 b, 3 e and 3 f. These are excluded from segmental profit from operations at constant rates as follows: 2013 2012 Adjusted Adjusted depreciation, depreciation, Depreciation, amortisation amortisation amortisation Adjusted and and and depreciation, Depreciation, impairment Translation impairment Adjusting impairment amortisation Adjusting amortisation Constant rates exchange Current rates items Current rates and impairment items and impairment m m m m m m m m Asia-Pacific 91 1 90 17 107 89 22 111 Americas 100 4 96 17 113 104 25 129 Western Europe 98 4 102 37 139 92 34 126 EEMEA 108 4 104 14 118 101 8 109 397 5 392 85 477 386 89 475 External revenue and non-current assets other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and retirement benefit assets are analysed between the UK and all foreign countries at current rates of exchange as follows: United Kingdom All foreign countries Group 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Revenue is based on location of sale m m m m m m External revenue 155 139 15,105 15,051 15,260 15,190 United Kingdom All foreign countries Group 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m m m Intangible assets 417 306 10,788 11,404 11,205 11,710 Property, plant and equipment 357 375 2,799 2,826 3,156 3,201 Investments in associates and joint ventures 2,299 2,330 2,299 2,330 The only foreign operation requiring separate disclosure under the requirements of IFRS 8 Operating Segments is Souza Cruz operating in Brazil.
The results of Souza Cruz are not disclosed separately in this Segmental analysis as they are disclosed in note 31 due to the materiality of the non-controlling interests.
The main acquisitions comprising the goodwill balance of 10,249 million 2012: 10,793 million, included in intangible assets, are provided in note 9.
Included in investments in associates and joint ventures are amounts of 1,447 million 2012: 1,496 million attributable to the investment in Reynolds American and 808 million 2012: 793 million attributable to the investment in ITC.
Further information can be found in note 11.
British American Tobacco 131 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 3 Profit from operations a Employee benefit costs 2012 2013 Restated m m Wages and salaries 1,914 1,907 Social security costs 234 257 Other pension and retirement benefit costs note 12 162 171 Share-based payments equity-settled note 27 61 73 Share-based payments cash-settled note 27 13 18 2,384 2,426 b Depreciation, amortisation and impairment costs 2013 2012 m m Intangibles amortisation of trademarks and similar intangibles note 3 f 74 63 amortisation of other intangibles 48 53 Property, plant and equipment depreciation 321 347 impairment 34 12 477 475 Impairment in respect of certain property, plant and equipment is included in restructuring costs see note 3 e. c Other operating income This represents operating income arising from the Groups activities which falls outside the definition of revenue and includes gains as a result of property disposals, service fees and other shared costs charged to third parties, manufacturing fees and trademark income.
British American Tobacco 132 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued 3 Profit from operations continued d Other operating expenses include: 2013 2012 m m Research and development expenses excluding employee benefit costs and depreciation 91 93 Exchange differences 11 50 Rent of plant and equipment operating leases minimum lease payments 38 41 Rent of property operating leases minimum lease payments 81 75 Fees payable for audit services pursuant to legislation: fees payable to  LLP for Parent Company and Group audit 1.8 1.8 fees payable to other  firms and associates for local statutory and Group reporting audits 7.6 7.7 Audit fees payable to  firms and associates 9.4 9.5 Audit fees payable to other firms 0.5 0.5 Total audit fees payable 9.9 10.0 Fees payable to  firms and associates for other services: audit-related assurance services 0.3 1.0 other assurance services 0.1 0.2 tax advisory services 2.9 2.5 tax compliance 1.0 0.9 other non-audit services 0.6 0.5 4.9 5.1 The total fees payable to  firms and associates included above are 14.3 million 2012: 14.6 million.
Total research and development costs including employee benefit costs and depreciation are 161 million 2012: 171 million.
e Restructuring and integration costs Restructuring costs reflect the costs incurred as a result of initiatives to improve the effectiveness and the efficiency of the Group as a globally integrated enterprise, including the relevant operating costs of implementing the new operating model.
The new operating model includes revised organisation structures, standardised processes and shared back office services underpinned by a global single instance of SAP.
The new organisation structures and processes are currently being implemented and the deployment of the new SAP system started in the third quarter of 2012 and will take around a total of four years to fully roll-out.
These initiatives also include a review of the Groups manufacturing operations, supply chain, overheads and indirect costs, organisational structure and systems and software used.
The costs of these initiatives together with the costs of integrating acquired businesses into existing operations, including acquisition costs, are included in profit from operations under the following headings: 2013 2012 m m Employee benefit costs 140 96 Depreciation and impairment costs 11 26 Other operating expenses 161 100 Other operating income 66 16 246 206 British American Tobacco 133 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 3 Profit from operations continued Restructuring and integration costs in 2013 principally relate to the restructuring initiatives directly related to implementation of a new operating model and the continuation of the factory closure and downsizing activities in Australia and Russia, and restructuring of factories in Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo: Boncourt, Switzerland and Bayreuth, Germany.
The costs also cover separation packages in respect of permanent headcount reductions and permanent employee benefit reductions in the Group.
Restructuring and integration costs in 2012 principally related to the implementation of the new operating model, the continuation of the factory closure and downsizing activities in Australia and the restructuring in Argentina.
The costs also cover the social plan and other activities relating to the Bremen factory closure in Germany, the integration of Productora Tabacalera fide Colombia, S. A. S. Protabaco into existing operations, as well as the write-off of non-compliant products and materials related to the implementation of plain packaging in Australia.
In addition, they also included separation packages in respect of permanent headcount reductions and permanent employee benefit reductions in the Group.
Other operating income in 2013 includes gains from the sale of land and buildings in Australia, Denmark and Russia.
In 2012, other operating income includes gains from the sale of land and buildings in the UK and South Africa and the release of deferred income from adisposal in 2007. f Amortisation of trademarks and similar intangibles The acquisitions of Protabaco, Bentoel, Tekel, ST and CN Creative Limited see note 26 c as well as the creation of CTBAT International Limited see note 26 a resulted in the capitalisation of trademarks and similar intangibles which are amortised over their expected useful lives, which do not exceed 20 years.
The amortisation charge of 74 million 2012: 63 million is included in depreciation, amortisation and impairment costs in profit from operations.
g Gain on deemed partial disposal of a trademark The contribution of the State Express 555 brand to CTBAT International Limited see note 26 a is accounted for at fair value in the arrangement.
This resulted in a 26 million gain on a deemed partial disposal of a trademark which is included in other operating income but has been treated as an adjusting item.
British American Tobacco 134 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued 4 Net finance costs 2013 2012 m m Finance costs interest payable bank borrowings 70 83 finance leases 1 1 facility fees 7 10 other 536 486 614 580 fair value changes on derivative financial instruments 103 71 exchange differences on financial liabilities 21 4 532 505 Finance income interest and dividend income gains in respect of available-for-sale investments 1 dividend income in respect of available-for-sale investments 2 2 other interest income 62 81 64 84 exchange differences on financial assets 2 35 66 49 Net finance costs 466 456 The Group manages foreign exchange gains and losses and fair value changes on a net basis, as shown below.
The derivatives that generate the fair value changes are detailed in note 16.
Fair value changes cash flow hedges transferred from equity 6 35 fair value hedging instruments exchange related movements 4 3 fair value hedging instruments net interest income 90 66 fair value hedging instruments interest related movements note i 146 29 fair value changes on hedged items interest related movements note i 151 31 instruments held-for-trading note ii 2 45 103 71 Finance costs exchange differences on financial liabilities 21 4 Finance income exchange differences on financial assets 2 35 84 40 Notes: i Hedge ineffectiveness in respect of fair value hedges is a 5 million gain 2012: 2 million loss being the difference between the two items above.
ii IFRS requires derivatives which do not meet the tests for hedge accounting under IAS 39 to be classified as instruments held-for-trading with fair value changes included in the income statement.
These derivatives principally consist of forward foreign currency contracts which have not been designated as hedges due to their fair value changes offsetting with other components of net finance costs relating to financial assets and liabilities.
Other interest payable includes interest on the bonds and notes detailed in note 21.
Facility fees principally relate to the Groups central undrawn banking facilities of 2 billion and US$150 million 2012: 2 billion and US$150 million.
Exchange differences in respect of hedged items subject to fair value hedges and cash flow hedges were a loss of 4 million 2012: 3 million gain and a loss of 14 million 2012: 28 million gain respectively and are included in Finance costs exchange differences in the table above.
British American Tobacco 135 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 5 Associates and joint ventures 2013 2012 Restated Groups Groups Total share Total share m m m m Gross turnover including duty, excise and other taxes 13,095 4,891 12,733 4,798 Duty, excise and other taxes 3,961 1,485 3,927 1,488 Revenue 9,134 3,406 8,806 3,310 Profit from operations 3,247 1,203 2,917 1,086 Net finance costs 174 73 160 66 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 3,073 1,130 2,757 1,020 Taxation on ordinary activities 1,037 387 911 341 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 2,036 743 1,846 679 Non-controlling interests 11 4 9 3 Post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 2,025 739 1,837 676 Analysed as: adjusted share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 1,966 723 1,829 681 issue of shares and change in shareholding 73 22 66 20 restructuring and integration costs 10 4 57 24 other 4 2 1 1 2,025 739 1,837 676 The share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures is after the following adjusting items which are excluded from the calculation of adjusted earnings per share as set out in note 7: In 2013, the Groups interest in ITC Ltd. ITC decreased from 30.72% to 30.47% as a result of ITC issuing ordinary shares under the companys employee stock option scheme.
The issue of shares and change in the Groups share of ITC resulted in a gain of 22 million, which is treated as a deemed partial disposal and included in the income statement.
During the year, Reynolds American Inc. RAI recognised restructuring charges of US$24 million in respect of its overall activities.
The Groups share of these charges is 4 million net of tax.
RAI has also recognised amounts which have been combined in the table of adjusting items in the Group income statement and are shown as other.
These include costs of US$18 million in respect of a number of Engle progeny lawsuits, the Groups share of which is 3 million net of tax : costs of US$34 million relating to other tobacco-related litigation charges, the Groups share of which is 6 million net of tax : trademark amortisation and impairment of US$27 million, the Groups share of which is 4 million net of tax : and costs of US$124 million relating to losses on extinguishment of debt, the Groups share of which is 22 million net of tax.
In addition, during 2013, RAI, various other tobacco manufacturers, 19 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico reached a final agreement related to RAIs 2003 Master Settlement Agreement MSA activities.
Under this agreement RAI will receive credits, currently estimated to be more than US$1 billion, in respect of its Non-Participating Manufacturer NPM Adjustment claims related to the period from 2003 to 2012.
These credits will be applied against the companys MSA payments over the next five years, subject to meeting the various ongoing performance obligations.
During 2013, RAI has recognised income of US$219 million related to its 2012 liability, the Groups share of which is 33 million net of tax.
Credits claimable against 2013 and future years would be accounted for in the applicable year and will not be treated as adjusting items.
British American Tobacco 136 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued 5 Associates and joint ventures continued In 2012, the Groups interest in ITC decreased from 31.04% to 30.72% as a result of ITC issuing ordinary shares under the companys employee stock option scheme.
This resulted in a gain of 20 million, which was treated as a deemed partial disposal and included in the income statement.
During 2012, RAI recognised restructuring charges of US$149 million and the Groups share of these charges amounted to 24 million netof tax.
In the year ended 31 December 2012, RAI recognised amounts which have been combined in the table of adjusting items and reported in other.
These mainly consist of a charge of US$37 million in respect of a number of Engle progeny lawsuits, the Groups share of which amounted to 6 million net of tax : and trademark amortisation and impairment of US$86 million, the Groups share of which amounted to 16 million net of tax.
These charges were offset by a gain of US$157 million resulting from the amendment by RAI of a post-employment medical plan, the Groups share of which amounted to 24 million net of tax.
2012 2013 Restated Groups Groups share share m m Profit on ordinary activities after taxation attributable to owners of the Parent 739 676 Other comprehensive income: Differences on exchange 141 145 Net fair value losses on available-for-sale investments 7 4 Actuarial gains losses relating to pensions and other post-retirement benefits note 20 90 39 Total comprehensive income note 11 681 488 2013 2012 Groups Groups share share m m Dividends received listed investments 504 476 unlisted investments 8 11 Total dividends received from associates 512 487 Summarised financial information of the Groups associates and joint ventures: 2012 2013 Restated RAI ITC Others RAI ITC Others m m m m m m Revenue 5,268 3,557 309 5,235 3,327 244 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 1,648 1,358 67 1,500 1,212 45 Post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 1,035 942 48 967 837 33 Other comprehensive income 130 454 34 206 228 2 Total comprehensive income 1,165 488 82 761 609 35 British American Tobacco 137 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 6 Taxation on ordinary activities a Summary of taxation on ordinary activities 2012 2013 Restated m m UK corporation tax Overseas tax 1,567 1,538 Comprising: current year tax expense 1,581 1,556 adjustments in respect of prior periods 14 18 Total current tax 1,567 1,538 Deferred tax 33 22 Comprising: deferred tax relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 33 22 1,600 1,516 b Franked Investment Income Group Litigation Order British American Tobacco is the principal test claimant in an action in the United Kingdom against HM Revenue and Customs in the Franked Investment Income Group Litigation Order FII GLO.
There are 25 corporate groups in the FII GLO.
The case concerns the treatment for UK corporate tax purposes of profits earned overseas and distributed to the UK.
The claim was filed in 2003 and the case was heard in the European Court of Justice ECJ in 2005 and a decision of the ECJ received in December 2006.
In July 2008, the case reverted to a trial in the UK High Court for the UK Court to determine how the principles of the ECJ decision should be applied in a UK context.
The High Court judgment in November 2008 concluded, amongst many other things, that dividends received from EU subsidiaries should have been exempt from UK taxation.
It also concluded that certain dividends received before 5 April 1999 from the EU and, in some limited circumstances after 1993 from outside the EU, should have been treated as franked investment income with the consequence that advance corporation tax ACT need not have been paid.
Claims for the repayment of UK tax incurred where the dividends were from the EU were allowed back to 1973.
The tentative conclusion reached by the High Court would, if upheld, produce an estimated receivable of about 1.2 billion for British American Tobacco.
The case was heard by the Court of Appeal in October 2009 and the judgment handed down on 23 February 2010.
The Court of Appeal determined that various questions, including which companies in the corporate tree can be included in a claim, should be referred back to the ECJ for further clarification.
In addition, the Court determined that the claim should be restricted to six years and not cover claims dating back to 1973.
The issue of time limits was heard by the Supreme Court in February 2012 and in May 2012 the Supreme Court decided in British American Tobacco Groups favour, that claims submitted before 8 September 2003 can go back to 1973.
A hearing took place in February 2012 at the ECJ on the questions referred from the Court of Appeal.
The ECJ judgment of 13 November 2012 confirms that the UK treatment of EU dividends was discriminatory and produces the same outcome for third country dividends from 1994 in certain circumstances.
The judgment also confirms that the claim can cover dividends from all indirect as well as direct EU subsidiaries and also ACT paid by a superior holding company.
The case will now revert to the UK High Court to apply the ECJ judgment and a full quantification hearing is scheduled for May 2014.
No potential receipt has been recognised in the current period or the prior year, in the results of the Group, due to the uncertainty of the amounts and eventual outcome.
British American Tobacco 138 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued 6 Taxation on ordinary activities continued c Factors affecting the taxation charge The taxation charge differs from the standard 23% 2012: 24% rate of corporation tax in the UK.
The major causes of this difference are listed below: 2013 2012 Restated m % m % Profit before tax 5,799 5,592 Less: share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 739 676 5,060 4,916 Tax at 23% 2012: 24% on the above 1,164 23.0 1,180 24.0 Factors affecting the tax rate: Tax at standard rates other than UK corporation tax rate 158 3.1 128 2.6 Other national tax charges 51 1.0 76 1.5 Permanent differences 6 0.1 24 0.5 Overseas withholding taxes 138 2.7 172 3.5 Double taxation relief on UK profits 11 0.2 13 0.3 Unutilised tax losses 62 1.2 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 14 0.2 18 0.3 Net deferred tax debits credits at other tax rates 46 0.9 33 0.7 1,600 31.6 1,516 30.8 In 2012, the merger of the Groups Colombian companies led to a 11 million reduction in a deferred tax liability that was set up on the acquisition of Protabaco in 2011.
This was treated as an adjusting item in the adjusted earnings per share calculation as set out in note 7. d Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income 2012 2013 Restated m m Current tax 2 2 Deferred tax 53 20 Charged credited to other comprehensive income 51 18 The tax relating to each component of other comprehensive income is disclosed in note 20.
British American Tobacco 139 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 7 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share are based on profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders of 3,904 million 2012: 3,797 million and 1,901 million 2012: 1,939 million ordinary shares of 25p each, being the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year excluding shares held as treasury shares.
For the calculation of diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares in issue is increased to 1,908 million 2012: 1,949 million to reflect the potential dilutive effect of employee share schemes.
2013 2012 Restated Weighted Weighted average average Earnings number of Earnings Earnings number of per share Earnings shares per share Restated shares Restated m m pence m m pence Basic earnings per share 3,904 1,901 205.4 3,797 1,939 195.8 Share options 7 0.8 10 1.0 Diluted earnings per share 3,904 1,908 204.6 3,797 1,949 194.8 Earnings have been affected by a number of adjusting items, which are described in notes 3, 5 and 6.
To illustrate the impact of these items, an adjusted earnings per share calculation is shown below.
Adjusted earnings per share calculation Diluted Basic 2013 2012 Restated 2013 2012 Restated Earnings Earnings Earnings Earnings Earnings per share Earnings per share Earnings per share Earnings per share Notes m pence m pence m pence m pence Unadjusted earnings per share 3,904 204.6 3,797 194.8 3,904 205.4 3,797 195.8 Effect of restructuring and integration costs 3 e 246 12.9 206 10.6 246 12.9 206 10.6 Tax and non-controlling interests on restructuring and integration costs 35 1.9 45 2.3 35 1.9 45 2.3 Effect of deferred tax liability credit 6 c 11 0.6 11 0.6 Effect of amortisation of trademarks and similarintangibles 3 f 74 3.9 63 3.2 74 3.9 63 3.3 Tax on amortisation of trademarks and similarintangibles 14 0.7 15 0.8 14 0.7 15 0.8 Gain on deemed partial disposal of a trademark 3 g 26 1.4 26 1.4 Effect of associates adjusting items net of tax 5 16 0.8 5 0.3 16 0.8 5 0.3 Adjusted earnings per share 4,133 216.6 4,000 205.2 4,133 217.4 4,000 206.3 British American Tobacco 140 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued 7 Earnings per share continued Headline earnings per share as required by the JSE Limited The presentation of headline earnings per share, as an alternative measure of earnings per share, is mandated under the JSE Listing Requirements.
It is calculated in accordance with Circular 2 2013 Headline Earnings, as issued by the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Circular 2 2013 superseded Circular 3 2012 for reporting periods ending on or after 31 July 2013 and requires the comparative figures to be restated where appropriate.
The headline earnings per share for 2012 have been restated for the effects of the revised IAS 19 Employee Benefits as explained in note 12.
Headline earnings per share are calculated as shown below: Diluted Basic 2013 2012 Restated 2013 2012 Restated Earnings Earnings Earnings Earnings Earnings per share Earnings per share Earnings per share Earnings per share m pence m pence m pence m pence Unadjusted earnings per share 3,904 204.6 3,797 194.8 3,904 205.4 3,797 195.8 Effect of impairment of intangibles, and property, plant andequipment 34 1.8 12 0.6 34 1.8 12 0.6 Tax and non-controlling interests on impairment of intangibles, and property, plant and equipment 2 0.1 4 0.2 2 0.1 4 0.2 Effect of gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment and held-for-sale assets 92 4.8 15 0.8 92 4.8 15 0.8 Tax and non-controlling interests on disposal of property, plantand equipment and held-for-sale assets 25 1.3 25 1.3 Effect of disposal of businesses and trademarks 26 1.4 26 1.4 Effect of gains reclassified from the available-for-sale reserve 2 0.1 1 2 0.1 1 Share of associates trademark and other asset impairments net of tax 4 0.2 15 0.8 4 0.2 15 0.8 Issue of shares and change in shareholding in associate 22 1.1 20 1.0 22 1.2 20 1.0 Headline earnings per share 3,823 200.4 3,784 194.2 3,823 201.1 3,784 195.2 8 Dividends and other appropriations 2013 2012 Pence Pence per share m per share m Ordinary shares Interim 2013 paid 30 September 2013 45.0 846 2012 paid 26 September 2012 42.2 815 Final 2012 paid 8 May 2013 92.7 1,765 2011 paid 3 May 2012 88.4 1,723 137.7 2,611 130.6 2,538 The Directors have recommended to shareholders a final dividend of 97.4p per share for the year ended 31 December 2013.
If approved, this dividend will be paid to shareholders on 8 May 2014.
This dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and therefore, in accordance with IAS 10, it has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
The total estimated dividend to be paid is 1,838 million, which takes the total dividends declared in respect of 2013 to 2,684 million 2012: 2,580 million representing 142.4p per share 2012: 134.9p per share.
British American Tobacco 141 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 9 Intangible assets Trademarks and Assets in Computer similar the course of Goodwill software intangibles development Total m m m m m 1 January 2013 Cost 10,793 659 904 173 12,529 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 509 310 819 Net book value at 1 January 2013 10,793 150 594 173 11,710 Differences on exchange 545 1 21 4 571 Additions internal development 14 133 147 acquisitions note 26 1 25 26 separately acquired 3 10 13 Reallocations 19 19 Amortisation charge 50 70 120 31 December 2013 Cost 10,249 631 891 283 12,054 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 496 353 849 Net book value at 31 December 2013 10,249 135 538 283 11,205 1 January 2012 Cost 11,120 617 883 108 12,728 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 478 258 736 Net book value at 1 January 2012 11,120 139 625 108 11,992 Differences on exchange 325 2 13 2 342 Additions internal development 1 116 117 acquisitions note 26 2 40 38 separately acquired 10 5 5 20 Reallocations 54 54 Amortisation charge 52 63 115 31 December 2012 Cost 10,793 659 904 173 12,529 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 509 310 819 Net book value at 31 December 2012 10,793 150 594 173 11,710 The cost of Goodwill is shown net of impairment charges made in prior years.
Included in computer software and assets in the course of development are internally developed assets with a carrying value of 398 million 2012: 296 million.
The costs of internally developed assets include capitalised expenses of employees working full time on software development projects, third-party consultants, as well as software licence fees from third-party suppliers.
Acquisitions in 2013 relate to the creation of CTBAT International Limited and the acquisition of British American Tobacco Myanmar Limited as explained in note 26.
Acquisitions in 2012 relate to the acquisition of CN Creative Limited and an adjustment to the purchase price for Protabaco acquired in 2011, as explained in note 26.
Included in the net book value of trademarks and similar intangibles are trademarks relating to the acquisition of Skandinavisk Tobakskompagni ST 301 million 2012: 322 million, Tekel 30 million 2012: 41 million, Bentoel 38 million 2012: 60 million andProtabaco 91 million 2012: 112 million and intellectual property of 26 million 2012: 40 million relating to the acquisition of CNCreative Limited in 2012.
The Group has future contractual commitments of 11 million related to intangible assets.
British American Tobacco 142 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued 9 Intangible assets continued Impairment testing for intangible assets with indefinite lives including goodwill Goodwill of 10,249 million 2012: 10,793 million is included in intangible assets in the balance sheet of which the following are the significant acquisitions: Rothmans Group 4,542 million 2012: 4,796 million : Imperial Tobacco Canada 2,281 million 2012: 2,477 million : ETI Italy 1,371 million 2012: 1,337 million and ST principally Scandinavia 1,030 million 2012: 1,004 million.
The principal allocations of goodwill in the Rothmans acquisition are to the cash-generating units of Eastern Europe, Western Europe and South Africa, with the remainder mainly relating to operations in the domestic and export markets in the United Kingdom and operations in Asia-Pacific.
In 2013 and 2012, goodwill was allocated for impairment testing purposes to 14 individual cash-generating units five in Asia-Pacific, five in the Americas, two in Western Europe and two in EEMEA.
The carrying amounts of goodwill allocated to the cash-generating units of Canada 2,281 million 2012: 2,477 million, Western Europe includes Rothmans and other acquisitions 3,624 million 2012: 3,539 million, Eastern Europe includes Rothmans and other acquisitions 908 million 2012: 889 million, South Africa 639 million 2012: 803 million, Australia includes Rothmans and other acquisitions 724 million 2012: 856 million, Singapore 511 million 2012: 538 million and Malaysia 434 million 2012: 474 million are considered significant in comparison with the total carrying amount of goodwill.
The recoverable amount of all cash-generating units has been determined on a value-in-use basis.
The key assumptions for the recoverable amount of all units are the long-term growth rate and the discount rate.
The long-term growth rate used is purely for the impairment testing of goodwill under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets and does not reflect long-term planning assumptions used by the Group for investment proposals or for any other assessments.
The discount rate is based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital, taking into account the cost of capital and borrowings, to which specific market-related premium adjustments are made.
These adjustments are derived from external sources and are based on the spread between bonds or credit default swaps, or similar indicators issued by the US or comparable governments and by the local government, adjusted for the Groups own credit market risk.
For ease of use and consistency in application, these results are periodically calibrated into bands based on internationally recognised credit ratings.
These assumptions have been applied to the individual cash flows of each unit as compiled by local management in the different markets.
The valuations use cash flows based on detailed financial budgets prepared by management covering a one year period, with growth inyear2 of 6%.
Cash flows for the years 3 to 10 are extrapolated from year 2 cash flows at 5% per annum, including 2% inflation, whereafter a total growth rate of 2% per annum including 2% inflation has been assumed.
The extrapolated growth rates are considered conservative given the Groups history of profit and cash growth, its well balanced portfolio of brands and the industry in which it operates.
The long-term real growth does not exceed the expected long-term average growth rate for the combined markets in which the cashgenerating units operate.
In some instances, such as recent acquisitions or start-up ventures, the valuation is expanded to reflect the medium-term plan of management, spanning five years or beyond.
Pre-tax discount rates of between 7.2% and 14.1% 2012: 7.2% to 13.9% were used, based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital, together with any premium applicable for economic and political risks.
The pre-tax discount rates used for the cash-generating units which are significant in comparison with the total carrying amount of goodwill are 8.5% for Canada 2012: 8.6%, 9.3% for Western Europe 2012: 9.3%, 8.6% for Eastern Europe 2012: 8.9%, 9.3% for South Africa 2012: 9.3%, 8.6% for Australia 2012: 8.6%, 7.2% for Singapore 2012: 7.2% and 8.7% for Malaysia 2012: 8.7%.
If discounted cash flows for cash-generating units should fall by 10%, or the discount rate was increased at a post-tax rate of 1%, there would be no impairment.
British American Tobacco 143 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 10 Property, plant and equipment Assets in the Freehold Leasehold Plant and course of property property equipment construction Total m m m m m 1 January 2013 Cost 1,138 261 4,453 483 6,335 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 362 123 2,649 3,134 Net book value at 1 January 2013 776 138 1,804 483 3,201 Differences on exchange 47 6 137 37 227 Additions 12 16 117 420 565 Reallocations 24 4 314 334 Depreciation 22 9 270 301 Impairment 2 14 17 33 Disposals 32 17 49 31 December 2013 Cost 1,034 258 4,257 527 6,076 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 325 123 2,460 12 2,920 Net book value at 31 December 2013 709 135 1,797 515 3,156 1 January 2012 Cost 1,069 256 4,588 380 6,293 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 433 116 2,697 3,246 Net book value at 1 January 2012 636 140 1,891 380 3,047 Differences on exchange 25 64 15 104 Additions 201 3 106 361 671 Reallocations 22 5 216 243 Depreciation 25 10 304 339 Impairment 1 12 13 Disposals 3 27 30 Net reclassifications as held-for-sale 29 2 31 31 December 2012 Cost 1,138 261 4,453 483 6,335 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 362 123 2,649 3,134 Net book value at 31 December 2012 776 138 1,804 483 3,201 Assets held under finance leases 31 December 2013 Cost 13 13 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 8 8 Net book value at 31 December 2013 5 5 31 December 2012 Cost 18 18 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 15 15 Net book value at 31 December 2012 3 3 Additions in 2013 include amounts contributed by the non-controlling interest in Myanmar note 26.
British American Tobacco 144 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued 10 Property, plant and equipment continued The Groups finance lease arrangements relate principally to the lease of vehicles by the Groups subsidiary in Pakistan.
Assets held under finance leases are secured under finance lease obligations included in note 21.
2013 2012 m m Cost of freehold land within freehold property on which no depreciation is provided 203 226 Leasehold property comprises net book value of long leasehold 111 105 net book value of short leasehold 24 33 135 138 Contracts placed for future expenditure 82 38 11 Investments in associates and joint ventures 2013 2012 m m 1 January 2,330 2,613 Total comprehensive income note 5 681 488 Dividends note 5 512 487 Share buy-backs note 25 c 189 262 Other equity movements 11 22 31 December 2,299 2,330 Non-current assets 3,741 3,815 Current assets 1,667 1,957 Non-current liabilities 1,983 2,090 Current liabilities 1,126 1,352 2,299 2,330 Reynolds American Inc. Groups share of market value of 6,828 million 2012: 5,925 million 1,447 1,496 ITC Ltd. Groups share of market value of 7,587 million 2012: 7,771 million 808 793 Other listed associates Groups share of market value of 83 million 2012: 109 million 11 13 Unlisted 33 28 2,299 2,330 British American Tobacco 145 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 11 Investments in associates and joint ventures continued The principal associate undertakings of the Group are Reynolds American Inc. RAI and ITC Ltd ITC as shown under principal associate undertakings.
Reynolds American Inc. 2013 2012 m m Non-current assets 4,146 4,224 Current assets 2,257 3,009 Non-current liabilities 4,576 4,843 Current liabilities 1,739 2,250 88 140 Groups share of Reynolds American Inc. 42.0% 37 59 Goodwill 1,410 1,437 Total Groups share of Reynolds American Inc. 1,447 1,496 The Groups share of RAI includes 446 million 2012: 461 million of trademarks arising from the RAI transaction in 2004.
In addition, the Groups share of non-current assets includes 628 million 2012: 640 million of goodwill and 291 million 2012: 296 million oftrademarks arising from the acquisition of Conwood by RAI in 2006.
Details of the Groups contingent liabilities are set out in note 30.
In addition to US litigation involving Group companies, which is covered by the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company RJRT indemnity referred to in note 30, RAI group companies are named in litigation which does not involve Group companies.
While it is impossible to be certain of the outcome of any particular case or of the amount of any possible adverse verdict, it is not impossible that the results of operations or cash flows of RAI, in particular quarterly or annual periods, could be materially affected by this and by the final outcome of any particular litigation.
However, having regard to the contingent liability disclosures on litigation made by RAI in its public financial reports, the Directors are satisfied with the carrying value included above for RAI.
The Groups share of the RAI results for the year to 31 December 2013 includes 43 million 2012: 41 million in respect of external legal fees and other external product liability defence costs.
ITC Ltd. ITC prepares accounts on a quarterly basis using a 31 March year end.
As permitted by IAS 28, results as at 30 September 2013 have been used in applying the equity method, to be consistent with the treatment in the Groups interim accounts given the availability of information at the half year.
Any further information available after the date used for reporting purposes is reviewed and any material items adjusted for in the final results.
The latest published information available is at 31 December 2013.
2013 2012 m m Non-current assets 1,858 1,891 Current assets 2,202 2,109 Non-current liabilities 194 176 Current liabilities 1,214 1,243 2,652 2,581 Groups share of ITC Ltd. 2013: 30.47% 2012: 30.72% 808 793 Additional information on associates is provided in the principal associate undertaking sections to the Annual Report.
British American Tobacco 146 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued 12 Retirement benefit schemes The Groups subsidiary undertakings operate around 180 retirement benefit arrangements worldwide.
The majority of scheme members belong to defined benefit schemes, most of which are funded externally and many of which are closed to new entrants.
The Group also operates a number of defined contribution schemes.
The liabilities arising in the defined benefit schemes are determined in accordance with the advice of independent, professionally qualified actuaries, using the projected unit credit method.
All schemes are formally valued at least every three years.
The principal schemes are in the UK, Germany, Canada, the Netherlands and Switzerland.
Together schemes in these territories account for over 85% of the total obligations of the Groups defined benefit schemes.
These obligations consist mainly of final salary pension schemes which provide benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life.
The level of benefits provided depends on members length of service and their salary in the final years leading up to retirement.
In addition, the Group operates several healthcare benefit schemes, of which the most significant are in Canada.
The liabilities in respect of healthcare benefits are also assessed by qualified independent actuaries, applying the projected unit credit method.
All of these arrangements, including funding arrangements where formal trusts or equivalents are required, have been developed and are operated in accordance with local regulations and practices in the countries concerned.
Responsibility for the governance of the schemes, including investment decisions and contribution schedules, lies with the trustees.
The trustees for each arrangement will usually consist of representatives appointed by both the sponsoring company and the beneficiaries.
The majority of schemes are subject to local regulation regarding funding deficits.
However, the scheme liabilities of the Group as measured for the purposes of determining funding levels are not considered to be materially different to the liabilities as measured under IAS 19.
The majority of benefit payments are from trustee administered funds: however, there are also a number of unfunded schemes where the sponsoring company meets the benefit payment obligation as it falls due.
While the funded arrangements in the Group have policies on investment management, including strategies over a preferred long-term investment profile, formal asset liability matching plans are not common, although schemes in certain territories including Canada and the Netherlands manage their bond portfolios to match the weighted average duration of scheme liabilities.
In addition, the main scheme in the UK has a target investment strategy such that, by 31 December 2018 the scheme will have moved to 20% return-seeking assets and 80% risk-reducing assets.
Investments are diversified by type of investment, by investment sector, and where appropriate by country.
Through its defined benefit pension schemes and healthcare schemes, the Group is exposed to a number of risks, including: Asset volatility: the plan liabilities are calculated using discount rates set by reference to bond yields: if plan assets underperform this yield e. g. due to stock market volatility, this will create a deficit.
However, most schemes hold a proportion of assets which are expected to outperform bonds in the long term, and the majority of schemes by value are subject to local regulation regarding funding deficits.
Changes in bond yields: a decrease in corporate bond yields will increase scheme liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the schemes bond holdings.
Inflation risk: some of the Groups pension obligations are linked to inflation and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities, although, in most cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place in the scheme rules.
Life expectancy: the majority of the schemes obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the plans liabilities.
Assumptions regarding mortality and mortality improvements are regularly reviewed in line with actuarial tables and scheme specific experience.
As explained in note 1, with effect from 1 January 2013 the Group has adopted the revised IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The comparative figures for 2012 have been restated accordingly for the following changes: m Removal of expected return on assets 284 Recognition of interest on scheme assets 250 Recognition of interest on unrecognised scheme surpluses 6 Impact on profit from operations 40 Associates: adjustment for interest on scheme assets net of tax 16 Impact on taxation charge of subsidiaries deferred tax 10 Reduction in profit for the year 46 Adjustment for restated actuarial gains on scheme assets in respect of subsidiaries 34 Adjustment for restated surplus recognition and minimum funding obligations in respect of subsidiaries 6 Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income 10 Net actuarial losses in respect of associates net of tax 16 Increase in other comprehensive income 46 As a result of the above, basic and diluted earnings per share for 2012 reduced from 198.1p to 195.8p and from 197.1p to 194.8p respectively.
British American Tobacco 147 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 12 Retirement benefit schemes continued The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m m m Present value of funded scheme liabilities 5,905 6,196 16 21 5,921 6,217 Fair value of funded scheme assets 5,767 5,547 13 16 5,780 5,563 138 649 3 5 141 654 Unrecognised funded scheme surpluses 19 15 19 15 157 664 3 5 160 669 Present value of unfunded scheme liabilities 239 224 98 154 337 378 396 888 101 159 497 1,047 The above net liability is recognised in the balance sheet as follows: retirement benefit scheme liabilities 531 993 101 159 632 1,152 retirement benefit scheme assets 135 105 135 105 396 888 101 159 497 1,047 The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2012 2012 2013 Restated 2013 2012 2013 Restated m m m m m m Defined benefit schemes Service cost current service cost 92 80 1 2 93 82 past service cost 5 13 5 13 settlements 2 2 Net interest on the net defined benefit liability interest on scheme liabilities 253 271 7 8 260 279 interest on scheme assets 227 249 1 1 228 250 interest on unrecognised funded scheme surpluses 1 6 1 6 124 123 2 9 126 132 Defined contribution schemes 36 39 36 39 Total amount recognised in the income statement note 3 a 160 162 2 9 162 171 The above charges are recognised within employee benefit costs in note 3 a and include a charge of 7 million in 2013 2012: 14 million charge in respect of settlements, past service costs and defined contribution costs reported as part of the restructuring costs charged in arriving at profit from operations see note 3 e. The amounts recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of actuarial gains and losses of subsidiaries are as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2012 2012 2013 Restated 2013 2012 2013 Restated m m m m m m Actuarial gains losses on scheme liabilities 139 668 42 7 181 675 Actuarial gains on scheme assets 127 294 127 294 Net actuarial gains losses in other comprehensive income note 20 266 374 42 7 308 381 The amounts recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of surplus restrictions and minimum funding obligations of subsidiaries are as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2012 2012 2013 Restated 2013 2012 2013 Restated m m m m m m Movements in the year note 20 5 60 5 60 British American Tobacco 148 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued 12 Retirement benefit schemes continued The movements in scheme liabilities are as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m m m Present value at 1 January 6,420 5,849 175 172 6,595 6,021 Differences on exchange 106 120 15 5 121 125 Current service cost 91 81 1 1 92 82 Past service costs 5 13 5 13 Settlements 46 3 46 3 Interest on scheme liabilities 244 268 7 8 251 276 Contributions by scheme members 2 3 2 3 Benefits paid 327 339 7 8 334 347 Actuarial gains losses 139 668 42 7 181 675 Present value at 31 December 6,144 6,420 114 175 6,258 6,595 Scheme liabilities by funding status: Funded schemes 5,905 6,196 16 21 5,921 6,217 Unfunded schemes 239 224 98 154 337 378 Present value at 31 December 6,144 6,420 114 175 6,258 6,595 Scheme liabilities by scheme membership: Active members 1,279 1,372 20 42 1,299 1,414 Deferred members 912 906 11 18 923 924 Retired members 3,953 4,142 83 115 4,036 4,257 Present value at 31 December 6,144 6,420 114 175 6,258 6,595 Approximately 95% of scheme liabilities in both years relate to guaranteed benefits.
Actuarial gains losses shown above can be analysed as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m m m Actuarial gains losses: arising from changes in demographic assumptions 26 48 1 2 25 50 arising from changes in financial assumptions 143 602 40 183 602 Experience gains losses 22 18 1 5 23 23 Total 139 668 42 7 181 675 Changes in financial assumptions principally relate to discount rate and inflation rate movements.
British American Tobacco 149 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 12 Retirement benefit schemes continued The movements in funded scheme assets are as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2012 2012 2013 Restated 2013 2012 2013 Restated m m m m m m Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 5,547 5,184 16 16 5,563 5,200 Differences on exchange 93 121 3 96 121 Settlements 46 4 46 4 Interest on scheme assets 219 245 1 1 220 246 Company contributions net of reimbursements 320 270 6 320 276 Contributions by scheme members 4 5 4 5 Benefits paid 311 326 1 7 312 333 Actuarial gains 127 294 127 294 Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 5,767 5,547 13 16 5,780 5,563 Contributions to defined benefit schemes are determined after consultation with the respective trustees and actuaries of the individual externally funded schemes and taking into account regulatory requirements.
Contributions to pension schemes in 2014 are expected to be 265 million compared to 320 million in 2013.
Company contributions for 2013 in the table above are shown net of a reimbursement of 7 million from a Jamaican pension scheme in the course of being wound up 2012: 26 million and include 190 million in both years in respect of additional contributions to eliminate a funding shortfall relating to the main UK pension scheme.
Fair value of scheme assets by category: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m m m Equities listed 1,908 2,224 5 9 1,913 2,233 Equities unlisted 513 196 513 196 Bonds listed 2,647 2,651 8 5 2,655 2,656 Bonds unlisted 151 95 151 95 Other assets listed 137 21 137 21 Other assets unlisted 411 360 2 411 362 Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 5,767 5,547 13 16 5,780 5,563 Scheme assets have been diversified into equities, bonds and other assets and are typically invested via fund investment managers into both pooled and segregated mandates of listed and unlisted equities and bonds.
In addition certain scheme assets, including a portion of the assets held in the main UK pension scheme, are further diversified by investing in equities listed on foreign stock exchanges via investment funds.
In the above analysis investments via equity-based investment funds are shown under listed equities, and investments via bondbased investment funds shown under listed bonds.
Other assets include cash and other deposits, recoverable taxes, reinsurance contracts, investment property, investments and derivatives.
In Jamaica, a pension scheme holds shares in Carreras Group Ltd a Group subsidiary with a fair value of 1 million 2012: 3 million.
The shares are listed on the Jamaica stock exchange.
The actuarial gains and losses in both years principally relate to movements in the fair values of scheme assets and actual returns are stated net of applicable taxes and fund management fees.
Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m m m Actual return on scheme assets 346 539 1 1 347 540 British American Tobacco 150 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued 12 Retirement benefit schemes continued The movements in the unrecognised scheme surpluses, recognised in other comprehensive income, are as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2012 2012 2013 Restated 2013 2012 2013 Restated m m m m m m Unrecognised funded scheme surpluses at 1 January 15 77 15 77 Differences on exchange 2 8 2 8 Interest on unrecognised funded scheme surpluses 1 6 1 6 Movement in year note 20 5 60 5 60 Unrecognised funded scheme surpluses at 31 December 19 15 19 15 Prior year movements include immaterial amounts in relation to minimum funding obligations.
The principal actuarial assumptions weighted to reflect individual scheme differences used in the following principal countries are shown below.
In both years, discount rates are determined by reference to normal yields on high quality corporate bonds at the balance sheet date.
For countries where there is not a deep market in such corporate bonds, the yield on government bonds is used.
UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland % % % % % 31 December 2013 Rate of increase in salaries 4.9 2.5 3.3 2.7 1.5 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.4 1.8 Nil 1.5 Nil Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.9 Nil Nil 1.5 Discount rate 4.4 3.4 4.6 3.7 2.3 General inflation 3.4 1.8 2.3 1.5 Nil UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland years years years years years 31 December 2013 Weighted average duration of liabilities 16.6 11.2 11.1 16.0 15.6 For healthcare inflation in Canada, the assumption is 4.35% increasing to 5.0% by 2018.
For the remaining pension schemes, typical assumptions are that real salary increases will be from 0.5% to 3.1% per annum and discount rates will be from 0.5% to 6.8% above inflation.
Pension increases, where allowed for, are generally assumed to be in line with inflation.
UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland % % % % % 31 December 2012 Rate of increase in salaries 4.4 2.5 3.3 2.7 1.5 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.9 2.0 Nil 1.5 Nil Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.4 Nil Nil 1.5 Discount rate 4.1 3.2 3.5 4.1 2.0 General inflation 2.9 2.0 2.3 1.5 Nil UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland years years years years years 31 December 2012 Weighted average duration of liabilities 16.3 11.2 12.1 15.9 15.3 For healthcare inflation in Canada, the assumption was 8.0% decreasing to 5.0% by 2018.
For the remaining pension schemes, typical assumptions were that real salary increases would be from 0.5% to 3.6% per annum and discount rates would be from 0% to 4.1% above inflation.
Pension increases, where allowed for, were generally assumed to be in line with inflation.
British American Tobacco 151 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 12 Retirement benefit schemes continued Mortality assumptions are subject to regular review.
The principal schemes used the following tables for both years: UK S1NA year of birth table with the Continuous Mortality Investigation 2009 model with a 1.5% long-term improvement rate.
Germany Heubeck tables 2005G Canada UP94 tables Netherlands AG Prognosetafel 20122062 tables Switzerland LPP 2010 tables Based on the above, the weighted average life expectancy, in years, for mortality tables used to determine benefit obligations is as follows: UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female 31 December 2013 Member age 65 current life expectancy 22.8 25.0 18.8 22.8 19.8 22.1 20.4 24.8 21.3 23.8 Member age 45 life expectancy at age 65 25.1 27.4 21.4 25.4 21.3 22.9 22.4 25.7 23.1 25.5 31 December 2012 Member age 65 current life expectancy 22.7 24.9 18.6 22.7 19.7 22.1 20.3 24.8 19.7 22.0 Member age 45 life expectancy at age 65 24.9 27.3 21.3 25.3 21.2 22.9 22.2 25.0 22.2 24.5 Valuation of retirement benefit schemes involves judgements about uncertain future events.
Sensitivities in respect of the key assumptions used to measure the principal pension schemes as at 31 December 2013 are set out below.
These sensitivities show the hypothetical impact of a change in each of the listed assumptions in isolation, with the exception of the sensitivity to inflation which incorporates the impact of certain correlating assumptions such as salary increases.
While each of these sensitivities holds all other assumptions constant, in practice such assumptions rarely change in isolation, while asset values also change, and the impacts may offset to some extent.
0.25 0.25 1 year 1 year percentage percentage increase decrease point increase point decrease m m m m Average life expectancy increase decrease of scheme liabilities 160 149 Rate of inflation increase decrease of scheme liabilities 168 148 Discount rate decrease increase of scheme liabilities 175 199 A one percentage point increase in healthcare inflation would increase healthcare scheme liabilities by 14 million, and a one percentage point decrease would decrease liabilities by 11 million.
The income statement effect of this change in assumption is not material.
British American Tobacco 152 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued 13 Deferred tax Deferred tax assets comprise: Excess of depreciation Retirement Other Stock over capital Tax benefits Fair value temporary Total relief allowances losses Restated losses gains differences Restated m m m m m m m At 1 January 2013 65 37 36 170 4 191 503 Differences on exchange 7 1 5 5 15 33 Charged credited to the income statement 12 2 36 2 1 19 Charged to other comprehensive income 59 3 62 At 31 December 2013 46 34 67 104 157 408 At 1 January 2012 32 27 16 128 5 259 467 Differences on exchange 2 2 4 18 26 Credited charged to the income statement 33 12 22 13 9 45 18 Credited charged to other comprehensive income 59 10 5 44 At 31 December 2012 65 37 36 170 4 191 503 Deferred tax liabilities comprise: Excess of capital Undistributed allowances earnings of Retirement Other Stock over associates and benefits Fair value temporary Total relief depreciation subsidiaries Restated losses gains differences Restated m m m m m m m At 1 January 2013 16 182 168 119 24 167 676 Differences on exchange 1 13 13 2 3 26 Credited charged to the income statement 6 5 26 5 1 12 33 Credited charged to other comprehensive income 21 12 9 At 31 December 2013 11 164 181 105 37 176 674 At 1 January 2012 21 193 158 117 2 189 680 Differences on exchange 1 8 8 3 4 24 Credited charged to the income statement 4 3 18 3 18 4 Charged to other comprehensive income 5 19 24 At 31 December 2012 16 182 168 119 24 167 676 2013 2012 m m Net deferred tax liabilities 266 173 British American Tobacco 153 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 13 Deferred tax continued The net deferred tax liabilities are reflected in the Group Balance Sheet as follows, after offsetting assets and liabilities where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and where the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
2013 2012 m m Deferred tax assets 248 327 Deferred tax liabilities 514 500 266 173 Deferred tax expected to be recovered within 12 months: 2013 2012 m m Deferred tax assets 115 117 Deferred tax liabilities 300 169 185 52 At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of 598 million 2012: 289 million which have no expiry date and unused tax losses of 558 million 2012: 632 million which will expire within the next 10 years.
No amount of deferred tax has been recognised in respect of these unused losses.
At the balance sheet date, the Group has not recognised a deferred tax asset in respect of deductible temporary differences of 1,005 million 2012: 1,221 million, which have no expiry date and 159 million 2012: 177 million, which will expire within the next 10 years.
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax credits of 80 million 2012: 80 million which have no expiry date.
No amount of deferred tax has been recognised in respect of these unused tax credits.
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of undistributed earnings of subsidiaries which would be subject to dividend withholding tax was 2 billion 2012: 2 billion.
No liability has been recognised in respect of this withholding tax because the Group is in a position to control the timing of these distributions and it is probable that these distributions will not be made in the foreseeable future.
14 Trade and other receivables 2013 2012 m m Trade receivables 2,208 2,088 Loans and other receivables 692 712 Prepayments and accrued income 147 165 3,047 2,965 Current 2,876 2,741 Non-current 171 224 3,047 2,965 Amounts receivable from related parties including associated undertakings are shown in note 29.
Trade and other receivables have been reported in the balance sheet net of allowances as follows: 2013 2012 m m Gross trade and other receivables 3,103 3,017 Allowance account 56 52 Net trade and other receivables per balance sheet 3,047 2,965 British American Tobacco 154 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued 14 Trade and other receivables continued The movements in the allowance account are as follows: 2013 2012 m m 1 January 52 49 Differences on exchange 3 3 Provided in the year 10 14 Amounts reversed during the year 3 8 31 December 56 52 Impairment of trade receivables, including write-offs and allowances, charged during the year is included as part of other operating expenses.
For 2013, the net impairment charged was 9 million 2012: 9 million of which 7 million 2012: 6 million, is reflected in the above table.
As at 31 December 2013, trade and other receivables of 46 million 2012: 41 million were past their contractual payment date but not impaired.
These relate to a number of external parties where there is no expectation of default.
The aged analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 2013 2012 m m Less than three months 34 36 Between three and six months 4 2 Between six months and one year 3 1 Greater than one year 5 2 The Group holds bank guarantees, other guarantees and credit insurance in respect of some of the past due debtor balances.
Trade and other receivables are predominantly denominated in the functional currencies of subsidiary undertakings apart from the following: 2013 2012 m m US dollar 107 76 UK sterling 131 136 Euro 31 33 Other currencies 172 62 Trade and other receivables also include certain interest bearing amounts and their effective interest rates are as follows: 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m % % UK sterling 5 10.0 Euro 5 5 4.0 4.0 Other currencies 3 12 5.1 5.9 There is no material difference between the above amounts for trade and other receivables and their fair value due to the short-term duration of the majority of trade and other receivables as determined using discounted cash flow analysis.
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the Group has a large number of internationally dispersed customers.
British American Tobacco 155 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 15 Available-for-sale investments 2013 2012 m m 1 January 63 97 Differences on exchange 1 4 Additions and advances 46 1 Disposals and repayments 20 31 31 December 90 63 Current 54 26 Non-current 36 37 90 63 The classification of these investments under the IFRS 13 fair value hierarchy is given in note 24.
Investments have the following maturities: As per balance sheet 2013 2012 m m Equity investments 36 37 Non-equity investments within one year 53 24 beyond three years and within four years 1 beyond four years and within five years 2 90 63 There is no material difference between the maturity profile of investments in the table above and the maturity profile on a gross contractual basis where the values in each year include the investments maturing in that year together with forecast interest receipts on all investments which are due for all or part of that year.
Investments are denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary undertaking or other currencies as shown below: 2013 2012 m m Functional currencies 90 62 US dollar 1 90 63 Non-equity investments of 54 million 2012: 26 million are principally denominated in UK sterling and have an effective interest rate of 5.5% 2012: 1.1%.
British American Tobacco 156 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued 16 Derivative financial instruments The fair values of derivatives are determined based on market data primarily yield curves, implied volatilities and exchange rates to calculate the present value of all estimated flows associated with each derivative at the balance sheet date.
In the absence of sufficient market data, fair values would be based on the quoted market price of similar derivatives.
The classification of these derivative assets and liabilities under the IFRS13 fair value hierarchy is given in note 24.
2013 2012 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Fair value hedges interest rate swaps 121 63 209 55 cross-currency swaps 6 38 10 12 Cash flow hedges cross-currency swaps 3 18 forward foreign currency contracts 106 25 70 31 Net investment hedges forward foreign currency contracts 161 5 59 12 Held-for-trading forward foreign currency contracts 31 30 25 22 others 1 Total 425 164 373 151 Current 312 34 166 65 Non-current 113 130 207 86 425 164 373 151 Derivatives in respect of net debt 146 125 234 95 other 279 39 139 56 425 164 373 151 As explained in note 4, some derivative financial instruments are not designated as hedges and so are required to be classified as held-for-trading.
For cash flow hedges the timing of expected cash flows is as follows: 2013 2012 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Within one year 92 27 49 31 Between one and two years 14 1 21 18 106 28 70 49 The Groups cash flow hedges are principally in respect of sales or purchases of inventory and certain debt instruments.
The timing of expected cash flows in respect of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges is broadly expected to be comparable to the time periods whenthe hedged item will affect profit or loss.
British American Tobacco 157 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 16 Derivative financial instruments continued The tables below set out the maturities of the Groups derivative financial instruments on an undiscounted contractual basis, based on spot rates.
The maturity dates of all gross-settled derivative financial instruments are as follows: 2013 2012 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Inflow Outflow Inflow Outflow Inflow Outflow Inflow Outflow m m m m m m m m Within one year forward foreign currency contracts 5,681 5,405 2,949 3,006 5,997 5,873 2,881 2,956 cross-currency swaps 4 2 195 182 18 11 47 43 Between one and two years forward foreign currency contracts 276 260 63 64 503 479 115 116 cross-currency swaps 4 2 33 16 18 11 158 163 Between two and three years cross-currency swaps 4 3 358 415 18 13 18 6 Between three and four years cross-currency swaps 4 4 15 19 18 14 343 389 Between four and five years cross-currency swaps 4 4 15 21 18 16 Beyond five years cross-currency swaps 110 100 461 513 575 616 6,087 5,780 4,089 4,236 7,165 7,033 3,562 3,673 The maturity dates of net-settled derivative financial instruments are as follows: 2013 2012 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Inflow Inflow Inflow Inflow Outflow Outflow Outflow Outflow m m m m Within one year 50 22 64 12 Between one and two years 27 14 63 11 Between two and three years 10 1 31 6 Between three and four years 9 11 24 15 Between four and five years 9 12 20 12 Beyond five years 23 89 14 128 77 216 56 The above analysis of derivatives settled on a net basis primarily relates to the Groups interest rate swaps.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is summarised as follows: 2013 2012 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Interest rate swaps 121 63 209 55 Cross-currency swaps 6 41 10 30 Forward foreign currency contracts 298 60 154 65 Others 1 425 164 373 151 British American Tobacco 158 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued 16 Derivative financial instruments continued a Interest rate swaps 2013 Interest rate % Maturity Principal Assets Liabilities date currency m m Original Swapped m m Fixed to floating 2014 GBP 500 500 6.0 note a 13 2014 GBP 250 250 6.0 note a 11 2017 USD 600 362 2.1 note a 1 2019 GBP 250 250 6.4 note a 43 2020 EUR 600 499 4.0 note a 47 2020 GBP 650 650 4.0 note a 8 2023 EUR 750 624 2.4 note a 4 2025 EUR 650 541 2.8 note a 15 Floating to fixed 2017 EUR 600 499 note a 3.7 35 2023 EUR 750 624 note a 2.8 7 121 63 The 750 million euro interest rate swap maturing in 2023 has a start date of 2015.
2012 Interest rate % Maturity Principal Assets Liabilities date currency m m Original Swapped m m Fixed to floating 2013 EUR 400 324 5.1 note a 14 2013 GBP 150 150 5.8 note a 6 2014 GBP 500 500 6.0 note a 26 2014 GBP 250 250 6.0 note a 18 2017 USD 600 369 2.1 note a 4 2019 GBP 250 250 6.4 note a 68 2020 EUR 600 487 4.0 note a 65 2023 EUR 750 608 2.4 note a 8 Floating to fixed 2017 EUR 600 487 note a 3.7 45 2023 EUR 750 608 note a 2.8 10 209 55 Note a : the floating rate interest rates are based on LIBOR or local equivalent plus a margin ranging between 67 and 268 basis points 2012: between 67 and 268 basis points.
These swaps have been used to manage the interest rate profile of external borrowings and are reflected in the repricing table in note 21.
British American Tobacco 159 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 16 Derivative financial instruments continued b Cross-currency swaps 2013 Principal Principal Interest original Interest swapped Maturity Original rate currency Swapped rate currency Assets Liabilities date currency % m m currency % m m m m Fixed to floating 2016 GBP 5.5 325 325 EUR note b 473 394 37 2019 EUR 4.6 20 17 USD note b 22 12 6 2021 EUR 3.6 600 499 GBP note b 518 518 1 Floating to fixed 2014 USD note b 261 158 COP 7.2 504,158 158 3 6 41 2012 Principal Principal Interest original Interest swapped Maturity Original rate currency Swapped rate currency Assets Liabilities date currency % m m currency % m m m m Fixed to floating 2016 GBP 5.5 325 325 EUR note b 473 384 12 2019 EUR 4.6 20 16 USD note b 22 13 7 2021 EUR 3.6 600 487 GBP note b 518 518 3 Floating to fixed 2014 USD note b 261 161 COP 7.2 504,158 176 18 10 30 Note b : the floating rate interest rates are based on LIBOR or local equivalent plus a margin ranging between 82 and 250 basis points 2012: between 82 and 250 basis points.
British American Tobacco 160 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued 16 Derivative financial instruments continued c Forward foreign currency contracts Forward foreign currency contracts have been used to hedge both internal and external forecast transactions as well as the hedging of internal and external assets and liabilities.
2013 2012 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Purchase Sell GBP EUR 17 1 12 5 GBP AUD 70 9 2 GBP ZAR 19 2 GBP CHF 5 1 10 GBP USD 56 28 GBP CAD 16 2 EUR USD 5 7 USD EUR 13 2 16 USD GBP 14 4 USD JPY 82 56 Other 28 31 26 38 298 60 154 65 Certain of these contracts were used to manage the currency profile of external borrowings and are reflected in the currency table in note21.
The nominal values of these contracts are as follows: 2013 2012 Purchase Sell Purchase Sell m m m m Purchase Sell GBP CHF 226 225 221 221 GBP CAD 211 207 292 287 GBP USD 187 181 GBP EUR 125 124 362 362 EUR DKK 313 313 344 344 EUR SEK 129 131 131 131 EUR NOK 150 149 166 166 British American Tobacco 161 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 17 Inventories 2013 2012 m m Raw materials and consumables 1,700 1,725 Finished goods and work in progress 2,144 2,079 Goods purchased for resale 198 222 4,042 4,026 Inventories pledged as security for liabilities amount to 14 million 2012: 8 million.
Write-offs taken to other operating expenses in the Group income statement comprise 45 million 2012: 57 million, including amounts relating to restructuring costs.
18 Income tax receivable and payable Income tax balances shown on the Group Balance Sheet as current assets and current liabilities, while subject to some uncertainty as to the extent and timing of cash flows, are largely expected to be received or paid within 12 months at the balance sheet date for both 2013 and 2012.
19 Cash and cash equivalents 2013 2012 m m Cash and bank balances 1,399 977 Cash equivalents 707 1,104 2,106 2,081 Cash equivalents mainly comprise short-term deposits and investments in money market funds with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents approximates their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents are denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary undertaking or other currencies as shown below: 2013 2012 m m Functional currency 1,804 1,383 US dollar 104 532 UK sterling 57 5 Euro 54 63 Other currencies 87 98 2,106 2,081 At 31 December 2013, cash and cash equivalents of 3 million 2012: 1 million were pledged as collateral.
In the Group cash flow statement, net cash and cash equivalents are shown after deducting bank overdrafts and accrued interest where applicable, as follows: 2013 2012 m m Cash and cash equivalents as above 2,106 2,081 Less accrued interest 1 Less overdrafts 329 242 Net cash and cash equivalents 1,776 1,839 Cash and cash equivalents include restricted amounts of 158 million 2012: 151 million, principally due to exchange control regulations in certain countries.
British American Tobacco 162 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued 20 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity Attributable to owners of the parent Share premium, capital Total redemption attributable NonShare and merger Other Retained to owners of controlling Total capital reserves reserves earnings the parent interests equity m m m m m m m 1 January 2013 507 3,916 796 2,253 7,472 307 7,779 Comprehensive income and expense Profit for the year 3,904 3,904 295 4,199 Differences on exchange subsidiaries 935 935 37 972 associates 141 141 141 Cash flow hedges net fair value gains 103 103 9 94 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 56 56 7 49 reclassified and reported in net assets 1 1 1 Available-for-sale investments net fair value losses 7 7 7 Net investment hedges net fair value gains 89 89 89 differences on exchange on borrowings 25 25 25 Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss note 6 d 13 13 13 Retirement benefit schemes actuarial gains in respect of subsidiaries note 12 309 309 1 308 surplus recognition and minimum funding obligations in respect of subsidiaries note 12 6 6 1 5 actuarial gains in respect of associates net of tax note 5 90 90 90 Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss note 6 d 39 39 1 38 Other changes in equity Employee share options value of employee services 61 61 61 proceeds from shares issued 3 1 4 4 Dividends and other appropriations ordinary shares 2,611 2,611 2,611 to non-controlling interests 271 271 Purchase of own shares held in employee share ownership trusts 74 74 74 share buy-back programme 1,509 1,509 1,509 Non-controlling interests capital injection note 26 8 8 Other movements 19 19 19 31 December 2013 507 3,919 190 2,398 6,634 301 6,935 British American Tobacco 163 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 20 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity continued Attributable to owners of the parent Share premium, Total capital attributable to Nonredemption Retained owners of the controlling Total Share and merger Other earnings parent interests equity capital reserves reserves Restated Restated Restated Restated m m m m m m m 1 January 2012 506 3,913 1,112 2,636 8,167 307 8,474 Comprehensive income and expense Profit for the year 3,797 3,797 279 4,076 Differences on exchange subsidiaries 355 355 24 379 associates 145 145 145 Cash flow hedges net fair value losses 14 14 3 11 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 71 71 71 reclassified and reported in net assets 12 12 12 Available-for-sale investments net fair value losses 3 3 3 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 1 1 1 Net investment hedges net fair value gains 106 106 106 differences on exchange on borrowings 49 49 49 Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss note 6 d 36 36 36 Retirement benefit schemes actuarial losses in respect of subsidiaries note 12 378 378 3 381 surplus recognition and minimum funding obligations in respect of subsidiaries note 12 41 41 19 60 actuarial losses in respect of associates net of tax note 5 39 39 39 Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss note 6 d 58 58 4 54 Other changes in equity Employee share options value of employee services 73 73 73 proceeds from shares issued 1 3 1 5 5 Dividends and other appropriations ordinary shares 2,538 2,538 2,538 to non-controlling interests 267 267 Purchase of own shares held in employee share ownership trusts 121 121 121 share buy-back programme 1,258 1,258 1,258 Non-controlling interests acquisitions note 29 21 21 3 24 Other movements 2 2 2 31 December 2012 507 3,916 796 2,253 7,472 307 7,779 Details relating to the allotted share capital, and movements therein, are included in note 4 of the Parent Company financial statements.
British American Tobacco 164 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued 20 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity continued a Share premium account, capital redemption reserves and merger reserves comprise: Share Capital premium redemption Merger account reserves reserves Total m m m m 1 January 2012 64 101 3,748 3,913 31 December 2012 67 101 3,748 3,916 31 December 2013 70 101 3,748 3,919 The share premium account includes the difference between the value of shares issued and their nominal value.
The increase of 3 million 2012: 3 million relates solely to ordinary shares issued under the Companys share option schemes.
These schemes are described in the Remuneration Report.
On the purchase of own shares as part of the share buy-back programme for shares which are cancelled, a transfer is made from retained earnings to the capital redemption reserve equivalent to the nominal value of shares purchased.
Purchased shares which are not cancelled are classified as treasury shares and presented as a deduction from total equity.
Total equity attributable to owners of the parent is stated after deducting the cost of treasury shares which include 4,045 million 2012: 2,536 million for shares repurchased and not cancelled and 280 million 2012: 288 million in respect of the cost of own shares held in employee share ownership trusts.
During 2013, 44 million shares were bought back at a cost of 1,500 million 2012: 39 million shares at a cost of 1,250 million excluding transaction costs of 9 million 2012: 8 million.
In 1999, shares were issued for the acquisition of the Rothmans International B. V. Group, and the difference between the fair value of shares issued and their nominal value was credited to merger reserves.
b Information on the principal components of non-controlling interests is provided in note 31.
British American Tobacco 165 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 20 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity continued Movements in other reserves and retained earnings which is after deducting treasury shares shown above comprise: Retained earnings AvailableTranslation Hedging for-sale Revaluation Total other Treasury reserve reserve reserve reserve Other reserves shares Other m m m m m m m m 1 January 2013 3 11 36 179 573 796 2,824 5,077 Comprehensive income and expense Profit for the year 3,904 Differences on exchange subsidiaries 935 935 associates 141 141 Cash flow hedges net fair value gains 103 103 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 56 56 reclassified and reported in net assets 1 1 Available-for-sale investments net fair value losses 7 7 Net investment hedges net fair value gains 89 89 differences on exchange on borrowings 25 25 Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 13 13 Retirement benefit schemes actuarial gains in respect of subsidiaries note 12 309 surplus recognition and minimum funding obligations in respect of subsidiaries note 12 6 actuarial gains in respect of associates net of tax note5 90 Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 39 Other changes in equity Employee share options value of employee services 61 proceeds from shares issued 1 Dividends and other appropriations ordinary shares 2,611 Purchase of own shares held in employee share ownership trusts 74 share buy-back programme 1,509 Other movements 81 62 31 December 2013 1,015 44 29 179 573 190 4,325 6,723 British American Tobacco 166 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued 20 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity continued Retained earnings AvailableTranslation Hedging for-sale Revaluation Total other Treasury Other reserve reserve reserve reserve Other reserves shares Restated m m m m m m m m 1 January 2012 349 29 40 179 573 1,112 1,539 4,175 Comprehensive income and expense Profit for the year 3,797 Differences on exchange subsidiaries 355 355 associates 145 145 Cash flow hedges net fair value losses 14 14 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 71 71 reclassified and reported in net assets 12 12 Available-for-sale investments net fair value losses 3 3 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 1 1 Net investment hedges net fair value gains 106 106 differences on exchange on borrowings 49 49 Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 7 29 36 Retirement benefit schemes actuarial losses in respect of subsidiaries note 12 378 surplus recognition and minimum funding obligations in respect of subsidiaries note 12 41 actuarial losses in respect of associates net of tax note 5 39 Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 58 Other changes in equity Employee share options value of employee services 73 proceeds from shares issued 1 Dividends and other appropriations ordinary shares 2,538 Purchase of own shares held in employee share ownership trusts 121 share buyback programme 1,258 Non-controlling interests acquisitions note 29 21 Other movements 93 91 31 December 2012 3 11 36 179 573 796 2,824 5,077 The translation reserve is as explained in the accounting policy on foreign currencies in note 1.
The hedging reserve and the available-for-sale reserve are as explained in the accounting policy on financial instruments in note 1.
The revaluation reserve relates to the acquisition of the cigarette and snus business of ST in 2008.
Of the amounts released from the hedging reserve during the year, gains of 28 million 2012: 5 million loss and gains of 11 million 2012: 26 million loss were reported within revenue and raw materials and consumables respectively, together with a loss of 3 million 2012: 5 million loss reported in other operating expenses and a gain of 13 million 2012: 35 million loss reported within net finance costs.
British American Tobacco 167 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 20 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity continued Other reserves comprise: a 483 million which arose in 1998 from merger accounting in a Scheme of Arrangement and Reconstruction whereby British American Tobacco p. l. c. acquired the entire share capital of B.
A. T Industries p. l. c. and the share capital of that companys principal financial services subsidiaries was distributed, so effectively demerging them: and b In the Rothmans transaction, convertible redeemable preference shares were issued as part of the consideration.
The discount on these shares was amortised by crediting other reserves and charging retained earnings.
The 90 million balance in other reserves comprises the accumulated balance in respect of the preference shares converted during 2004.
The tax attributable to components of other comprehensive income is as follows: 2012 2013 Restated m m Translation reserve Differences on exchange 2 Net investment hedges difference on exchange on borrowings 5 7 Hedging reserve Cash flow hedges net fair value gains 36 17 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 23 12 13 29 Retained earnings actuarial gains losses in respect of subsidiaries 41 66 surplus recognition and minimum funding obligations in respect of subsidiaries 2 8 39 58 Owners of the parent 52 22 Non-controlling interests 1 4 Total tax recognised in other comprehensive income for the year note 6 d 51 18 British American Tobacco 168 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued 21 Borrowings 2013 2012 Currency Maturity dates Interest rates m m Eurobonds Euro 2014 to 2023 2.4% to 5.9% 5,372 5,208 UK sterling 2016 to 2040 4.0% to 7.3% 3,118 2,670 US dollar 2016 1.0% to 1.2% 182 Bonds issued pursuant to Rule 144A and RegS under the US Securities Act as amended US dollar 2014 to 2022 1.4% to 9.5% 1,620 1,840 Other notes Malaysian ringgit 2014 4.1% to 4.5% 47 51 Other currencies 24 25 Commercial paper 521 Bank loans 341 543 Other loans 136 135 Finance leases 6 5 Overdrafts 329 242 11,696 10,719 The interest on the commercial paper referred to in the table above is based on USD LIBOR plus a margin ranging between 10 and 15 basis points 2012: nil.
Included within borrowings are 4,466 million 2012: 3,731 million of borrowings subject to fair value hedges where their amortised cost has been increased by 69 million 2012: 220 million in the table above.
The fair value of borrowings is estimated to be 12,701 million 2012: 12,041 million.
11,873 million 2012: 11,116 million has been calculated using quoted market prices and is within level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
828 million 2012: 925 million has been calculated based on discounted cash flow analysis and is within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
2013 2012 m m Amounts secured on Group assets 20 13 In both years amounts secured on Group assets include finance leases of 6 million 2012: 5 million and amounts secured on certain inventory of the Group see note 17.
Borrowings are repayable as follows: Per Balance Sheet Contractual gross maturities 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Within one year 1,980 1,636 2,220 1,783 Between one and two years 1,343 666 1,798 1,099 Between two and three years 534 1,319 899 1,730 Between three and four years 1,513 369 1,790 672 Between four and five years 421 1,508 853 1,862 Beyond five years 5,905 5,221 7,732 6,874 11,696 10,719 15,292 14,020 The contractual gross maturities in each year include the borrowings maturing in that year together with forecast interest payments on all borrowings which are outstanding for all or part of that year.
British American Tobacco 169 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 21 Borrowings continued Borrowings are denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary undertaking or other currencies as shown below: Functional US UK Canadian Other currency dollar sterling Euro dollar currencies Total m m m m m m m 31 December 2013 Total borrowings 5,643 2,353 329 3,248 123 11,696 Effect of derivative financial instruments cross-currency swaps 1,070 146 325 516 83 forward foreign currency contracts 749 181 468 207 818 11 5,964 2,388 4 2,264 207 941 11,768 31 December 2012 Total borrowings 5,710 1,962 329 2,688 30 10,719 Effect of derivative financial instruments cross-currency swaps 1,078 148 325 503 102 forward foreign currency contracts 875 279 287 862 5 5,913 1,814 4 1,906 287 892 10,816 Details of the derivative financial instruments included in these tables are given in note 16.
The exposure to interest rate changes when borrowings are repriced is as follows: Within Between Between Between Between Beyond 1 year 12 years 23 years 34 years 45 years 5 years Total m m m m m m m 31 December 2013 Total borrowings 2,013 1,341 655 1,392 420 5,875 11,696 Effect of derivative financial instruments interest rate swaps 2,427 624 137 1,940 cross-currency swaps 924 325 516 83 5,364 717 330 1,529 420 3,419 11,779 31 December 2012 Total borrowings 1,667 665 1,318 368 1,508 5,193 10,719 Effect of derivative financial instruments interest rate swaps 1,977 750 608 118 737 cross-currency swaps 781 149 325 503 102 4,425 64 710 43 1,626 3,953 10,821 Details of the derivative financial instruments included in these tables are given in note 16.
British American Tobacco 170 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued 21 Borrowings continued Finance lease liabilities per the balance sheet and on a contractual gross maturity basis are payable as follows: 2013 2012 Total Total m m Within one year 2 2 Between one and two years 2 2 Between two and three years 1 1 Between three and four years 1 6 5 There is no material difference between the repayable principal and the total gross cash flows shown above.
Borrowings facilities undrawn committed facilities expire as follows: 2013 2012 m m Within one year 169 131 Between one and two years 2,000 Between two and three years 2,000 Between three and four years 91 Between four and five years 92 2,260 2,223 The Group defines net debt as follows: 2013 2012 m m Borrowings note 21 11,696 10,719 Derivatives in respect of net debt: assets note 16 146 234 liabilities note 16 125 95 Cash and cash equivalents note 19 2,106 2,081 Current available-for-sale investments note 15 54 26 9,515 8,473 British American Tobacco 171 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 22 Other provisions for liabilities and charges Restructuring Employee of existing related Other businesses benefits Fox River provisions Total m m m m m 1 January 2013 92 45 271 221 629 Differences on exchange 4 4 26 34 Provided in respect of the year 42 12 52 106 Utilised during the year 42 11 4 63 120 31 December 2013 88 42 267 184 581 Analysed on the balance sheet as current 49 18 127 194 non-current 39 24 267 57 387 88 42 267 184 581 1 January 2012 149 50 274 221 694 Differences on exchange 6 2 19 27 Provided in respect of the year 6 9 71 86 Utilised during the year 57 12 3 52 124 31 December 2012 92 45 271 221 629 Analysed on the balance sheet as current 47 17 146 210 non-current 45 28 271 75 419 92 45 271 221 629 The restructuring provisions relate to the restructuring and integration costs incurred and reported as adjusting items in the income statement.
The principal restructuring activities in 2013 and 2012 are as described in note 3 e. While some elements of the non-current provisions of 39 million will unwind over several years, as termination payments are made over extended periods in some countries, it is estimated that approximately 45% will unwind in 2015 and over 89% within five years.
Employee-related benefits mainly relate to long-term employee benefits other than post-employment benefits.
As the principal components of these provisions are long service awards and jubilee payments due after a certain service period, they will unwind over several years.
It is estimated that approximately 17% of the non-current provisions of 24 million will unwind within five years.
A provision was made in 2011 for a potential claim under a 1998 settlement agreement entered into by a Group subsidiary in respect of the clean-up of sediment in the lower Fox River.
This is explained in more detail in note 30.
Other provisions comprise balances set up in the ordinary course of general business that cannot be classified within the other categories, such as sales returns, onerous contracts, together with amounts in respect of supplier, excise and other disputes.
The nature of the amounts provided in respect of disputes is such that the extent and timing of cash flows is difficult to estimate, and the ultimate liability may vary from the amounts provided.
Amounts provided above are shown net of reversals of unused provisions which include 10 million for restructuring of existing businesses, 1 million for employee benefits and 28 million for other provisions.
British American Tobacco 172 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued 23 Trade and other payables 2013 2012 m m Trade payables 814 679 Duty, excise and other taxes 3,642 3,736 Accrued charges and deferred income 1,038 1,156 Social security and other taxation 18 15 Sundry payables 360 407 5,872 5,993 Current 5,741 5,827 Non-current 131 166 5,872 5,993 Accrued charges and deferred income include 3 million 2012: 5 million in respect of interest payable.
Amounts payable to related parties including associated undertakings are shown in note 29.
There is no material difference between the above amounts for trade and other payables and their fair value due to the short-term duration of the majority of trade and other payables, as determined using discounted cash flow analysis.
Trade and other payables are predominantly denominated in the functional currencies of subsidiary undertakings with less than 5% in other currencies 2012: less than 3%.
24 Financial instruments and risk management Management of financial risks One of the principal responsibilities of Treasury is to manage the financial risks arising from the Groups underlying operations.
Specifically, Treasury manages, within an overall policy framework set by the Groups Main Board and Corporate Finance Committee CFC, the Groups exposure to funding and liquidity, interest rate, foreign exchange and counterparty risks.
The Groups treasury position is monitored by the CFC which meets regularly throughout the year and is chaired by the Group Finance Director.
The approach is one of risk reduction within an overall framework of delivering total shareholder return.
The Group defines capital as net debt see note 21 and equity see note 20.
The only externally imposed capital requirement for the Group is interest cover as described under interest rate risk below.
The Group assesses its financial capacity by reference to cash flow, net debt and interest cover.
Group policies include a set of financing principles and key performance indicators including the monitoring of credit ratings, interest cover and liquidity.
These provide a framework within which the Groups capital base is managed and, in particular, the policies on dividends as a percentage of long-term sustainable earnings and share buy-back are decided.
The key objective of the financing principles is to appropriately balance the interests of equity and debt holders in driving an efficient financing mix for the Group.
The Group manages its financial risks in line with the classification of its financial assets and liabilities in the Group Balance Sheet and related notes.
The Groups management of specific risks is dealt with as follows: Liquidity risk It is the policy of the Group to maximise financial flexibility and minimise refinancing risk by issuing debt with a range of maturities, generally matching the projected cash flows of the Group and obtaining this financing from a wide range of providers.
The Group has a target average centrally managed debt maturity of at least five years with no more than 20% of centrally managed debt maturing in a single rolling year.
As at 31 December 2013, the average centrally managed debt maturity was 7.2 years 2012: 7.2 years and the highest proportion of centrally managed debt maturing in a single rolling year was 18.3% 2012: 19.3%.
In December 2013 a maturing 152 million bond was repaid, this repayment was financed from Group cash balances.
In November 2013 a maturing US$300 million bond was repaid, this repayment was financed from Group cash balances.
In September 2013 the Group issued a new 650 million bond with a maturity of 2026.
In July 2013 the Group repaid a maturing 519 million bond, this repayment was financed from Group cash balances.
In March 2013 the Group issued a new 650 million bond with a maturity of 2025 and a new US$300 million bond with a maturity of 2016.
During the year, the Groups subsidiary in Brazil received proceeds of 399 million 2012: 356 million from short-term borrowings in respect of advance payments on leaf export contracts and repaid 436 million 2012: 350 million.
British American Tobacco 173 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 24 Financial instruments and risk management continued In November 2012, the Group issued a new 750 million bond with a maturity of January 2023.
In July 2012, the Group prepaid and cancelled a 450 million syndicated facility due October 2013.
This repayment was financed from Group cash balances.
In June 2012, the Group repaid a 337 million bond due in June 2012, and prepaid and cancelled a US$690 million syndicated facility dueOctober 2012, a Mexican peso 1,444 million borrowing due September 2014 and a Mexican peso 1,025 million borrowing due November 2014.
These payments were financed from Group cash balances.
In June 2012, the Group issued new US$2 billion bonds: US$500 million with a maturity of June 2015, US$600 million with a maturity of June 2017 and US$900 million with a maturity of June 2022.
In August 2011, the Group extended the maturity date of a US$200 million facility from 2011 to 2016, and simultaneously increased the size of the facility to US$240 million.
This facility is drawable in Chilean peso and was drawn to the value of US$225 million at 31 December 2013 31 December 2012: US$225 million.
The undrawn element of US$15 million was available for drawing until February 2013.
The Group continues to have a 2 billion central banking facility with a final maturity date of December 2015.
The facility is provided by 22 banks and was undrawn as at 31 December 2013 31 December 2012: undrawn.
It is Group policy that short-term sources of funds including drawings under both the Group US$2 billion commercial paper programme, and the Group 1 billion euro commercial paper ECP programme are backed by undrawn committed lines of credit and cash.
At 31 December 2013, commercial paper of 521 million was outstanding 31 December 2012: nil.
During 2012 the Groups subsidiary in Japan entered into an agreement with an affiliate of Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation to assign part of its monthly trade receivables, without recourse, in return for cash, leading to an increase of 75 million in cash generated from operations.
During 2013 this arrangement was increased by 17 million.
The Group utilises cash pooling and zero balancing bank account structures in addition to intercompany loans and borrowings to ensure that there is the maximum mobilisation of cash within the Group.
The key objectives of Treasury in respect of cash and cash equivalents are to protect the principal value of cash and cash equivalents, to concentrate cash at the centre to minimise the required long-term debt issuance, and to optimise the yield earned.
The amount of debt issued by the Group is determined by forecasting the net debt requirement after the mobilisation of cash.
The Group continues to target investment-grade credit ratings: as at 31 December 2013 the ratings from Moodys and S&P were A3 stable outlook Astable outlook 2012: Baa1 A-.
The Moodys rating was upgraded from Baa1 to A3 on 12 March 2013.
The strength of the ratings has underpinned the debt issuance during 2013 and 2012 and, despite the impact of the turbulence in financial markets, the Group is confident of its ability to successfully access the debt capital markets, as demonstrated with the issue of bonds in the euro, US dollar and sterling markets in 2013 and 2012.
As part of its short-term cash management, the Group invests in a range of cash and cash equivalents, including money market funds, which are regarded as highly liquid and are not exposed to significant changes in fair value.
These are kept under continuous review as described in the credit risk section below.
At 31 December 2013, cash and cash equivalents include 156 million invested in money market funds 2012: 434 million.
Subsidiary companies are funded by share capital and retained earnings, loans from the central finance companies on commercial terms, or through local borrowings by the subsidiaries in appropriate currencies.
All contractual borrowing covenants have been met and none of them is expected to inhibit the Groups operations or funding plans.
British American Tobacco 174 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued 24 Financial instruments and risk management continued Currency risk The Group is subject to exposure on the translation of the net assets of foreign currency subsidiaries and associates into its reporting currency, sterling.
The Groups primary balance sheet translation exposures are to the US dollar, Canadian dollar, euro, Danish krone, Swiss franc, South African rand, Russian rouble, Brazilian real, Australian dollar, Malaysian ringgit and Singapore dollar.
These exposures are kept under continuous review.
The Groups policy on borrowings is to broadly match the currency of these borrowings with the currency of cash flows arising from the Groups underlying operations.
Within this overall policy, the Group aims to minimise all balance sheet translation exposure where it is practicable and cost-effective to do so through matching currency assets with currency borrowings.
The main objective of these policies is to protect shareholder value by increasing certainty and minimising volatility in earnings per share.
At 31 December 2013, the currency profile of the Groups gross debt, after taking into account derivative contracts, was 21% 2012: 17% US dollar, 41% 2012: 45% euro, 2% 2012: 3% Canadian dollar, 21% 2012: 18% sterling, and 15% 2012: 17% other currencies.
The Group faces currency exposures arising from the translation of profits earned in foreign currency subsidiaries and associates and joint arrangements: these exposures are not normally hedged.
Exposures also arise from: i foreign currency denominated trading transactions undertaken by subsidiaries.
These exposures comprise committed and highly probable forecast sales and purchases, which are offset wherever possible.
The remaining exposures are hedged within the Treasury policies and procedures with forward foreign exchange contracts and options, which are designated as hedges of the foreign exchange risk of the identified future transactions: and ii forecast dividend flows from subsidiaries to the centre.
To ensure cash flow certainty, the Group hedges such flows using forward foreign exchange contracts designated as net investment hedges of the foreign exchange risk arising from the investments in these subsidiaries.
IFRS 7 requires a sensitivity analysis that shows the impact on the income statement and on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income of hypothetical changes of exchange rates in respect of non-functional currency financial assets and liabilities held across the Group.
All other variables are held constant although, in practice, market rates rarely change in isolation.
Financial assets and liabilities held in the functional currency of the Groups subsidiaries, as well as non-financial assets and liabilities and translation risk, are not included in the analysis.
The Group considers a 10% strengthening or weakening of the functional currency against the non-functional currency of its subsidiaries as a reasonably possible change.
The impact is calculated with reference to the financial asset or liability held as at the year end, unless this is unrepresentative of the position during the year.
A 10% strengthening of functional currencies against non-functional currencies would result in pre-tax profit being 24 million higher 2012: 1 million higher and items recognised directly in other comprehensive income being 15 million higher 2012: 5 million lower.
A 10% weakening of functional currencies against non-functional currencies would result in pre-tax profit being 31 million lower 2012: 1 million lower and items recognised directly in other comprehensive income being 19 million lower 2012: 5 million higher.
The exchange sensitivities on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income relate to hedging of certain net asset currency positions in the Group as well as on cash flow hedges in respect of future transactions, but does not include sensitivities in respect of exchange on non-financial assets or liabilities.
Interest rate risk The objectives of the Groups interest rate risk management policy are to lessen the impact of adverse interest rate movements on the earnings, cash flow and economic value of the Group and to safeguard against any possible breach of its financial covenants.
Additional objectives are to minimise the cost of hedging and the associated counterparty risk.
The Group targets an interest cover ratio, as calculated under its key central banking facilities, of greater than 5 and for 2013 it is 12.3 times 2012 restated: 12.5 times.
The only externally imposed capital requirement the Group has is in respect of its centrally managed banking facilities, which require a gross interest cover of 4.5.
In order to manage its interest rate risk, the Group maintains both floating rate and fixed rate debt.
The Group sets targets within overall guidelines for the desired ratio of floating to fixed rate debt on both a gross and net basis at least 50% fixed on a net basis in the short to the medium term as a result of regular reviews of market conditions and strategy by the Corporate Finance Committee and the board of the main central finance company.
At 31 December 2013, the relevant ratios of floating to fixed rate borrowings were 43:57 2012: 35:65 on a gross basis and 25:75 2012: 16:84 on a net basis.
Underlying borrowings are arranged on both a fixed rate and a floating rate basis and, where appropriate, the Group uses derivatives, primarily interest rate swaps, to vary the fixed and floating mix.
The interest rate profile of liquid assets is taken into account in determining the net interest rate exposure.
IFRS 7 requires a sensitivity analysis that shows the impact on the income statement and on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income of hypothetical changes of interest rates in respect of financial assets and liabilities of the Group.
For the purposes of this sensitivity analysis, financial assets and liabilities with fixed interest rates are not included.
The Group considers a 100 basis point change in interest rates a reasonably possible change except where rates are less than 100 basis points.
In these instances it is assumed that the interest rates increase by 100 basis points and decrease to zero for the purpose of performing the sensitivity analysis.
A 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in pre-tax profit being 22 million lower 2012: 16 million lower.
A 100 basis point decrease in interest rates, or less where applicable, would result in pre-tax profit being 1 million higher 2012: 1 million higher.
The effect of these interest rate changes on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income is not material in either year.
British American Tobacco 175 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 24 Financial instruments and risk management continued Credit risk The Group has no significant concentrations of customer credit risk.
Subsidiaries have policies in place requiring appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
The process for monitoring and managing credit risk once sales to customers have been made varies depending on local practice in the countries concerned.
Certain territories have bank guarantees, other guarantees and credit insurance provided in the Groups favour in respect of Group trade receivables, the issuance and terms of which are dependent on local practices in the countries concerned.
All derivatives are subject to ISDA agreements or equivalent documentation.
Cash deposits and other financial instruments give rise to credit risk on the amounts due from the related counterparties.
Generally the Group targets a long-term counterparty credit rating of at least AA3.
However, the Group recognises that due to the need to operate over a large geographic footprint, sovereign risk can be the determining factor on the suitability of a counterparty.
From time to time the Group may invest in short-dated corporate commercial paper and for this, the Group identifies specific counterparties with a minimum short-term rating of A1 P1.
Counterparty credit risk is managed on a global basis by limiting the aggregate amount and duration of exposure to any one counterparty, taking into account its credit rating.
The credit ratings of all counterparties are reviewed regularly.
The Group ensures that it has sufficient counterparty credit capacity of requisite quality to undertake all anticipated transactions throughout its geographic footprint, while at the same time ensuring that there is no geographic concentration in the location of counterparties.
The maximum exposure to the credit risk of financial assets at the balance sheet date is reflected by the carrying values included in the Group Balance Sheet.
In addition, the Group has issued guarantees to third parties, part of which has been recognised on the balance sheet in accordance with IAS 39.
The unrecognised portion of these guarantees amounts to 30 million 2012: 26 million.
The impact of own credit risk on the fair value of derivatives and other obligations held at fair value is not material.
Price risk The Group is exposed to equity price risk on equity investments held by the Group, which are included in available-for-sale investments on the consolidated balance sheet, but the quantum of such is not material.
Hedge accounting In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to document prospectively the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is reperformed periodically to ensure that the hedge has remained, and is expected to remain highly effective.
Fair value estimation The fair values of financial assets and liabilities with maturities of less than one year, other than derivatives, are assumed to approximate their book values.
For other financial instruments which are measured at fair value in the balance sheet, the basis for fair values is described below.
Fair value hierarchy The following table presents the Groups financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value in accordance with the IFRS 13 classification hierarchy: 2013 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Assets at fair value Available-for-sale investments note 15 54 36 90 Derivatives relating to interest rate swaps note 16 121 121 cross-currency swaps note 16 6 6 forward foreign currency contracts note 16 298 298 Assets at fair value 54 425 36 515 Liabilities at fair value Derivatives relating to interest rate swaps note 16 63 63 cross-currency swaps note 16 41 41 forward foreign currency contracts note 16 60 60 Liabilities at fair value 164 164 British American Tobacco 176 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued 24 Financial instruments and risk management continued 2012 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Assets at fair value Available-for-sale investments note 15 26 37 63 Derivatives relating to interest rate swaps note 16 209 209 cross-currency swaps note 16 10 10 forward foreign currency contracts note 16 154 154 Assets at fair value 26 373 37 436 Liabilities at fair value Derivatives relating to interest rate swaps note 16 55 55 cross-currency swaps note 16 30 30 forward foreign currency contracts note 16 65 65 others note 16 1 1 Liabilities at fair value 151 151 Level 1 financial instruments are traded in an active market and fair value is based on quoted prices at the year end.
Level 2 financial instruments are not traded in an active market, but the fair values are based on quoted market prices, broker dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.
The Groups level 2 financial instruments include OTC derivatives.
The fair values of level 3 financial instruments have been determined using a valuation technique where at least one input which could have a significant effect on the instruments valuation is not based on observable market data.
The Groups level 3 financial instruments primarily consist of an equity investment in an unquoted entity which is valued using the discounted cash flows of estimated future dividends.
The valuation assumes the following: future dividends grow by 2.0% 2012: 2.0% and a 100 basis points decrease in the growth rate would result in the valuation being 6 million lower 2012: 7 million lower : and discount rate of 6.5% 2012: 6.5% and a 100 basis points decrease in the discount rate would result in the valuation being 10 million higher 2012: 11 million higher.
The following table presents the changes in level 3 financial instruments: 2013 2012  sale investments investments m m 1 January 37 38 Differences on exchange 1 1 31 December 36 37 British American Tobacco 177 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 24 Financial instruments and risk management continued Netting arrangements of derivative financial instruments The gross fair value of derivative financial instruments as presented in the Group Balance Sheet, together with the Groups rights of offset associated with recognised financial assets and recognised financial liabilities subject to enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements, is summarised as follows: 2013 2012 Related Related Amount amounts not Amount amounts not presented in offset in the presented in offset in the the Group Group Balance the Group Group Balance Balance Sheet Sheet Net amount Balance Sheet Sheet Net amount m m m m m m Financial assets Derivative financial instruments note 16 425 144 281 373 125 248 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments note 16 164 144 20 151 125 26 261 261 222 222 No financial instruments have been offset in the Group Balance Sheet.
The Group is subject to master netting arrangements in force with financial counterparties with whom the Group trades derivatives.
The master netting arrangements determine the proceedings should either party default on their obligations.
In case of any event of default: the non-defaulting party will calculate the sum of the replacement cost of outstanding transactions and amounts owed to it by the defaulting party.
If that sum exceeds the amounts owed to the defaulting party, the defaulting party will pay the balance to the non-defaulting party.
If the sum is less than the amounts owed to the defaulting party, the non-defaulting party will pay the balance to the defaulting party.
British American Tobacco 178 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued 25 Cash flow Cash generated from operations 2012 2013 Restated m m Profit from operations 5,526 5,372 Adjustments for amortisation of trademarks and similar intangibles 74 63 amortisation of other intangible assets 48 53 gain on deemed partial disposal of a trademark 26 depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 355 359 increase in inventories 386 755 increase in trade and other receivables 246 329 increase in trade and other payables 311 840 decrease in net retirement benefit liabilities 222 160 decrease in provisions for liabilities and charges 19 45 other non-cash items 49 39 Cash generated from operations 5,366 5,437 Profit from operations includes charges in respect of Group restructuring and integration costs referred to in note 3 e. These are also reflected in the movements in depreciation, amortisation, impairment, inventories, receivables, payables and provisions above and in the proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment shown in the Group cash flow statement.
The cash outflow in respect of the Groups restructuring costs was 310 million 2012: 228 million.
Cash flows from investing activities a Property, plant and equipment In 2013, proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment include receipts in respect of Australia, Denmark and Russia, the gains on which have been included in restructuring and integration costs note 3 e. In 2012, purchases of property, plant and equipment include 195 million in respect of the Groups acquisition of the freehold interest in Globe House the Groups headquarters in London.
The Group had leased the property on a 25 year lease which was due to expire in 2024.
The purchase price has been allocated to Freehold property in note 10. b Purchases and proceeds on disposals of investments The purchases and disposals of investments which comprise available-for-sale investments and loans and receivables comprises a net cash outflow in respect of current investments of 32 million 2012: 24 million inflow.
c Proceeds from associates share buy-backs The proceeds from associates share buy-backs reflect proceeds of 189 million 2012: 262 million in respect of the Groups participation in the share buy-back programme conducted by Reynolds American Inc. d Purchase of subsidiaries In 2013, the cash outflow relates to further cash consideration paid on the purchase of CN Creative Limited of 16 million.
In 2012, the cash outflow relates to the cash consideration paid on the purchase of CN Creative Limited of 14 million offset by a 2 million inflow relating to the adjustment of the purchase price for Protabaco.
Cash flows from financing activities a Cash flows from borrowings In December 2013 a maturing 152 million bond was repaid, this repayment was financed from Group cash balances.
During the year the Groups subsidiary in Brazil received proceeds of 399 million 2012: 356 million from short-term borrowings in respect of advance payments on leaf export contracts and repaid 436 million 2012: 350 million.
At 31 December 2013 commercial paper of 521 million was outstanding 31 December 2012: nil.
In November 2012, the Group issued a new 750 million bond with a maturity of January 2023.
British American Tobacco 179 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 25 Cash flow continued In July 2012, the Group prepaid and cancelled a 450 million syndicated facility due October 2013.
In June 2012, the Group repaid a 337 million bond due in June 2012 and prepaid and cancelled a US$690 million syndicated facility due October 2012, a Mexican peso 1,444 million borrowing due September 2014 and a Mexican peso 1,025 million borrowing due November 2014.
In June 2012, the Group issued new US$2 billion bonds: US$500 million with a maturity of June 2015, US$600 million with a maturity of June 2017 and US$900 million with a maturity of June 2022. b Movements relating to derivative financial instruments The movement relating to derivative financial instruments is in respect of derivatives taken out to hedge cash and cash equivalents and external borrowings, derivatives taken out to hedge intercompany loans and borrowings and derivatives treated as net investment hedges.
Derivatives taken out as cash flow hedges in respect of financing activities are also included in the movement relating to derivative financial instruments, while other such derivatives in respect of operating and investing activities are reflected along with the underlying transactions.
c Purchases of non-controlling interests In 2012, the purchase of non-controlling interest of 24 million relates to the acquisition of part of the non-controlling interests in British American Tobacco Bangladesh.
26 Business combinations, disposals and other changes in the Group a CTBAT International Limited On 30 August 2013 the Group announced that CTBAT International Limited CTBAT, a joint investment incorporated in Hong Kong between subsidiaries of China National Tobacco Corporation CNTC and the Group, had commenced official business operations.
The joint venture was created in accordance with the Joint Venture Agreement signed by both companies.
It owns and manages the worldwide international cigarette trademark State Express 555, and also the worldwide rights outside China to the leading CNTC brand Shuang Xi.
CTBAT is treated as a joint operation as defined under IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, and operates as an extension of the existing tobacco businesses of its investors.
The Group will therefore recognise its share 50% of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the arrangement on a line-by-line basis in the consolidated financial statements.
CTBAT is reported as part of the Asia-Pacific region with the majority of its international sales non-China domestic sales made through existing BAT end markets in that region.
All sales to mainland China are via CNTC.
In accordance with best practice, the contribution of brands and businesses into CTBAT have been recognised by the new entity at fair value, resulting in a gain on the deemed partial disposal of the State Express 555 brand which has been treated as an adjusting item see note 3 g and the recognition of the Groups share of the assets of the new business see note 9.
The impact of the arrangement on operating results for 2013 is not material.
b British American Tobacco Myanmar Limited On 8 July 2013, the Group announced the completion of a joint venture in Myanmar with I. M. U.
Enterprise Limited IMU to manufacture, distribute and market the Groups brands.
Under theterms of the agreement, the Group has contributed plant and machinery and cash to the venture in return for a controlling stake, and will therefore account for the transaction as a business combination.
The amounts involved, and the impact ofthe arrangement on operating results for 2013, are not material.
Goodwill of 1 million in relation to the acquisition of the 51% stake in the business reflects the strategic premium to acquire the opportunity to re-enter the Myanmar market.
The Groups proportion of the total net assets acquired at fair value amounted to8 million with non-controlling interests of 8 million.
c CN Creative Limited On 18 December 2012, the Group acquired CN Creative Limited, a UK-based start-up company specialising in the development of e-cigarette technologies.
The companys entire share capital was acquired for 40 million, of which 14 million was paid in 2012 and a further 16 million paid during 2013.
The remaining balance of the consideration payable is contingent upon the achievements of certain post-acquisition events.
The only material asset acquired was the companys intellectual property.
d British American Tobacco Bangladesh On 27 June 2012, the Group acquired a further 7% interest in British American Tobacco Bangladesh Company Limited at a cost of24 million.
This increased the Groups total shareholding to 73%.
e Items classified as held-for-sale At 31 December 2013, held-for-sale assets comprise mainly land and buildings in Denmark which are being actively marketed for sale.
At 31 December 2012, held-for-sale assets included land and buildings in Denmark and Russia which have been sold during 2013. f Productora Tabacalera fide Colombia, S. A. S. Protabaco On 11 October 2011, the Group acquired from Flentex Holdings Limited and Trioumvir Enterprises Limited, both private investor shareholders, a 100% stake in Productora Tabacalera fide Colombia, S. A. S. Protabaco.
The purchase price was subject to the final agreement of adjustments for working capital and net debt with the vendors.
This was finalised in July 2012 with a reduction of 2 million to the previously reported purchase price and goodwill.
British American Tobacco 180 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued 27 Share-based payments The Group operates a number of share-based payment arrangements of which the two principal ones are: Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Nil-cost options exercisable after three years from date of grant with a contractual life of 10 years.
Payout is subject to performance conditions based on earnings per share relative to inflation 50% of grant and total shareholder return, combining the share price and dividend performance of the Company by reference to two comparator groups 50% of grant.
Participants are not entitled to dividends prior to the exercise of the options.
A cash equivalent dividend accrues through the vesting period and is paid on vesting.
Both equity and cash-settled LTIPs are granted in March each year.
Deferred Share Bonus Scheme DSBS Free ordinary shares released three years from date of grant and may be subject to forfeit if a participant leaves employment before the end of the three-year holding period.
Participants receive a separate payment equivalent to a proportion of the dividend payment during the holding period.
Both equity and cash-settled deferred shares are granted in March each year.
The Group also has a number of other arrangements which are not material for the Group and these are as follows: Share Option Scheme ESOS Options exercisable three years from date of grant with a contractual life of 10 years, subject to earnings per share performance condition relative to inflation.
Participants are not entitled to receive dividends in the period prior to the exercise of the options.
The granting of options under this scheme ceased with the last grant made in March 2004 and final outstanding awards must be exercised by March 2014.
The awards were both equity and cash-settled.
Sharesave Scheme SAYE Options granted in March each year from 2011 onwards previously November until 2009 and no options were granted during 2010 by invitation at a 20% discount to the market price.
Options to this equity-settled scheme are exercisable at the end of a three-year or five-year savings contract.
The maximum amount that can be saved by a participant in this way is 3,000 in any tax year.
Share Reward Scheme SRS and International Share Reward Scheme ISRS Free shares granted in April each year maximum 3,000 in any year under the equity-settled scheme are subject to a three-year holding period.
Participants receive dividends during the holding period which are reinvested to buy further shares.
Partnership Share Scheme Open to all eligible employees, where employees can allocate part of their pre-tax salary to purchase shares in British American Tobacco p. l. c. The maximum amount that can be allocated in this way to any individual is 1,500 in any tax year.
The shares purchased are held in a UKbased trust and are normally capable of transfer to participants tax-free after a five-year holding period.
Further details on the operation of share-based payment arrangements can be found in the Remuneration Report.
Share-based payment expense The amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of share-based payments were as follows: 2013 2012 Equity-settled Cash-settled Equity-settled Cash-settled m m m m LTIP note a 8 2 22 5 DSBS note b 48 11 46 13 SAYE note c 1 1 SRS note c 4 4 Total recognised in the income statement note 3 a 61 13 73 18 British American Tobacco 181 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 27 Share-based payments continued Share-based payment liability The Group issues to certain employees cash-settled share-based payments that require the Group to pay the intrinsic value of these sharebased payments to the employee at the date of exercise.
The Group has recorded liabilities in respect of vested and unvested grants at the end of 2013 and 2012: 2013 2012 Vested Unvested Vested Unvested m m m m LTIP 3.8 3.6 3.0 8.6 DSBS 0.2 14.7 0.1 14.6 ESOS 0.2 Total liability 4.0 18.3 3.3 23.2 a Long-Term Incentive Plan Details of the movements for the equity and cash-settled LTIP scheme during the years ended 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 were as follows: 2013 2012 Equity-settled Cash-settled Equity-settled Cash-settled Number Number Number Number of options of options of options of options in thousands in thousands in thousands in thousands Outstanding at start of year 5,949 779 6,589 829 Granted during the period 1,697 131 1,834 303 Exercised during the period 1,508 179 2,129 317 Forfeited during the period 546 22 345 36 Outstanding at end of year 5,592 709 5,949 779 Exercisable at end of year 770 123 751 102 The weighted average British American Tobacco p. l. c. share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was 35.41 2012: 31.96 for equity-settled and 34.97 2012: 31.88 for cash-settled options.
The outstanding shares for the year ended 31 December 2013 had a weighted average contractual life of 7.8 years 2012: 8.0 years for the equity-settled scheme, and 7.6 years 2012: 7.9 years for the cash-settled share-based payment arrangements.
British American Tobacco 182 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued 27 Share-based payments continued b Deferred Share Bonus Scheme Details of the movements for the equity and cash-settled DSBS scheme during the years ended 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 were as follows: 2013 2012 Equity-settled Cash-settled Equity-settled Cash-settled Number Number Number Number of options of options of options of options in thousands in thousands in thousands in thousands Outstanding at start of year 5,368 878 6,109 954 Granted during the period 1,628 158 2,025 368 Exercised during the period 1,796 270 2,667 431 Forfeited during the period 95 12 99 13 Outstanding at end of year 5,105 754 5,368 878 Exercisable at end of year 5 45 2 The weighted average British American Tobacco p. l. c. share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the financial year was 34.96 2012: 32.02 for equity-settled and 34.99 2012: 32.01 for cash-settled options.
The outstanding shares for the year ended 31 December 2013 had a weighted average contractual life of 1.2 years 2012: 1.3 years for the equity-settled scheme, and 1.0 years 2012: 1.3 years for the cash-settled scheme.
c Other schemes ESOS The number of outstanding equity-settled options at the end of the year was 95,266 2012: 204,002 and cash-settled options was nil 2012: 9,150.
SAYE The number of outstanding options at the end of the year for the three-year scheme was 263,599 2012: 280,383 and for the five-year scheme was 465,274 2012: 526,023.
SRS and ISRS The number of outstanding shares at the end of the year for the Share Reward Scheme was 546,983 2012: 565,312 and for the International Share Reward Scheme was 41,205 2012: 49,318.
Valuation assumptions Assumptions used in the Black-Scholes models to determine the fair value of share options at grant date were as follows: 2013 2012 LTIP DSBS LTIP DSBS Expected volatility % 25 25 26 26 Average expected term to exercise years 3.5 3.0 3.5 3.0 Risk-free rate % 0.4 0.3 0.7 0.6 Expected dividend yield % 3.8 3.8 3.9 3.9 Share price at date of grant 35.05 35.05 32.08 32.08 Fair value at grant date 23.69 23.44 31.23 21.79 21.68 28.50 Where two figures have been quoted for the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the first number represents the awards made to employees below Management Board level and the second number toawards made to the members of the Management Board, as at the date of award.
Market condition features were incorporated into the Monte-Carlo models for the total shareholder return elements of the LTIP, indetermining fair value at grant date.
Assumptions used in these models were as follows: 2013 2012 % % Average share price volatility FTSE 100 comparator group 37 39 Average share price volatility FMCG comparator group 26 26 Average correlation FTSE 100 comparator group 37 38 Average correlation FMCG comparator group 37 36 British American Tobacco 183 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 27 Share-based payments continued Fair values determined from the Black-Scholes and Monte-Carlo models use assumptions revised at the end of each reporting period for cash-settled share-based payment arrangements.
The expected British American Tobacco p. l. c. share price volatility was determined taking account of the return index, the share price index plus the dividend reinvested over a five-year period.
The respective FMCG and FTSE 100 share price volatility and correlations were also determined over the same periods.
The average expected term to exercise used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural conditions, forfeiture and historical experience.
The risk-free rate has been determined from market yield curves for government gilts with outstanding terms equal to the average expected term to exercise for each relevant grant.
The expected dividend yield was determined by calculating the yield from the last two declared dividends divided by the grant share price.
In addition to these valuation assumptions, LTIP awards contain earnings per share performance conditions.
As these are non-market performance conditions they are not included in the determination of fair value of share options at the grant date, however they are used to estimate the number of awards expected to vest.
This payout calculation is based on expectations published in analysts forecasts.
28 Group employees The average number of persons employed by the Group and its associates during the year, including Directors, was 89,820 2012: 87,485.
2013 2012 Number Number Asia-Pacific 17,156 15,307 Americas 16,489 17,336 Western Europe 11,824 11,703 EEMEA 12,261 12,017 Subsidiary undertakings 57,730 56,363 Associates 32,090 31,122 89,820 87,485 Details of Directors remuneration, share options and retirement benefits are given in the Remuneration Report.
Included within the employee numbers for Western Europe are certain employees in the UK in respect of central functions.
Some of the costs of these employees are allocated or charged to the various regions and markets in the Group.
British American Tobacco 184 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued 29 Related party disclosures The Group has a number of transactions and relationships with related parties, as defined in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, all of which are undertaken in the normal course of business.
Transactions and balances with associates relate mainly to the sale and purchase of cigarettes and tobacco leaf.
Amounts receivable from associates in respect of dividends included in the table below were 86 million 2012: 84 million.
The Groups share of dividends from associates, included in other net income in the table below, was 512 million 2012: 487 million.
2013 2012 m m Transactions revenue 54 32 purchases 345 330 other net income 501 481 Amounts receivable at 31 December 96 92 Amounts payable at 31 December 33 34 On 17 December 2012, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, BATUS Japan Inc. BATUSJ, entered into an Amendment and Extension Agreement referred to as the Amendment with a wholly owned subsidiary of Reynolds American, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company referred to as RJRTC.
The Amendment modifies the American blend Cigarette Manufacturing Agreement referred to as the 2010 Agreement, effective as of 1 January 2010.
Prior to the Amendment, the term of the 2010 Agreement was scheduled to expire on 31 December 2014, subject to early termination and extension provisions.
Pursuant to the Amendment, the Manufacturing Agreement will remain in effect beyond 31 December 2014, provided that either RJRTC or BATUSJ may terminate the Manufacturing Agreement by furnishing three years notice to the other party, with any such notice to be given no earlier than 1 January 2016.
In 2012, the Group acquired non-controlling interests of shareholders in British American Tobacco Bangladesh for 24 million.
This transaction is shown as a 21 million reduction to reserves attributable to the owners of the parent and a 3 million reduction in reserves attributable to non-controlling interests in note 20.
During the year, the Group received proceeds of 189 million 2012: 262 million in respect of its participation in the share buy-back programme conducted by Reynolds American Inc.
The key management personnel of British American Tobacco consist of the members of the Board of Directors of British American Tobacco p. l. c. and the members of the Management Board.
No such person had any material interest during the year in a contract of significance other than a service contract with the Company or any subsidiary company.
The term key management personnel in this context includes the respective members of their households.
2013 2012 m m The total compensation for key management personnel, including Directors, was: salaries and other short-term employee benefits 20 22 post-employment benefits 3 3 share-based payments 11 10 34 35 There were no other long-term benefits applicable in respect of key personnel other than those disclosed in the Remuneration Report in the Annual Report.
British American Tobacco 185 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Pursuant to the terms of the RJRT Indemnification, RJRT is liable for 30 Contingent liabilities and any possible judgments, the posting of appeal bonds or security, and financialcommitments all other expenses of and responsibility for managing the defence of The Group is subject to contingencies pursuant to requirements that the Tobacco Litigation.
RJRT has assumed control of the defence of it complies with relevant laws, regulations and standards.
the Tobacco Litigation involving B&W, to which RJRT is also a party in most but not all of the same cases.
Failure to comply could result in restrictions in operations, damages, Included in the US litigation section below are all significant cases fines, increased tax, increased cost of compliance, interest charges, where B&W and or a UK company is named as a defendant and all reputational damage or other sanctions.
These matters are inherently cases where RJRT is named as a defendant as a successor to B&W difficult to quantify.
In cases where the Group has an obligation as a the RJRT Successor Cases.
The RJRT Successor Cases are covered result of a past event existing at the balance sheet date, it is probable by the RJRT Indemnification.
that an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle the obligation and if the amount of the obligation can be reliably US litigation estimated, a provision will be recognised based on best estimates The total number of US product liability cases pending at and management judgment.
31 December 2013 involving B&W was approximately 7,312 compared to approximately 7,918 in 2012.
Of these, 4,243 cases There are, however, contingent liabilities in respect of litigation, are RJRT Successor Cases.
For all of the 7,312 cases involving B&W, taxes in some countries and guarantees for which no provisions British American Tobacco Group companies have the protection havebeen made.
As at 31 December 2013, British General litigation American Tobacco Investments Limited Investments has been served as a co-defendant in one of those cases compared Product liability litigation to one in 2012.
No other UK-based Group company has been Group companies, notably Brown & Williamson Holdings, Inc. served as a co-defendant in any US product liability case pending formerly Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation B&W as at 31 December 2013.
Since many of these pending cases as well as other leading cigarette manufacturers, are defendants seek unspecified damages, it is not possible to quantify the total in a number of product liability cases.
In a number of these cases, amounts being claimed, but the aggregate amounts involved in the amounts of compensatory and punitive damages sought such litigation are significant, possibly totalling billions of US dollars.
The cases fall into four broad categories: medical reimbursement cases: class actions: individual cases: and other claims.
Indemnity On 30 July 2004, B&W completed the combination of the assets, a Medical reimbursement cases liabilities and operations of its US tobacco business with R. J.
These civil actions seek to recover amounts spent by government Reynolds Tobacco Company RJRT, a wholly-owned subsidiary entities and other third-party providers on healthcare and welfare of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc. pursuant to which Reynolds costs claimed to result from illnesses associated with smoking.
American Inc. was formed the Business Combination.
As part of the Business Combination, B&W contributed to RJRT all of the At 31 December 2013, one US medical reimbursement suit was assets and liabilities of its US cigarette and tobacco business, subject pending against B&W by an Indian tribe in an Indian tribal court in to specified exceptions, in exchange for a 42% equity ownership South Dakota.
No other suits are pending against B&W by county interest in Reynolds American Inc. orother political subdivisions of the states.
As a result of the Business Combination, RJRT assumed all liabilities b Class actions of B&W except liabilities to the extent relating to businesses and At 31 December 2013, B&W was named as a defendant in five assets not contributed by B&W to RJRT and other limited categories separate actions attempting to assert claims on behalf of classes of of liabilities and contributed subsidiaries or otherwise to the extent persons allegedly injured or financially impacted through smoking related to B&Ws tobacco business as conducted in the United or where classes of tobacco claimants have been certified.
If the States on or prior to 30 July 2004.
In addition, RJRT agreed to classes are or remain certified and the possibility of class-based indemnify B&W and each of its associates other than Reynolds liability is eventually established, it is likely that individual trials will be American Inc. and its subsidiaries against, among other matters, necessary to resolve any claims by individual plaintiffs.
Class action all losses including those arising from Environmental Tobacco suits have been filed in a number of states against individual Smoke ETS claims, liabilities, damages, expenses, judgments, cigarette manufacturers and their parent corporations, alleging that attorneys fees, etc.
to the extent relating to or arising from such the use of the terms lights and ultralights constitutes unfair and assumed liabilities or the assets contributed by B&W to RJRT the deceptive trade practices.
Black is a lights class action filed in November 2000 in the Circuit The scope of the RJRT Indemnification includes all expenses and Court, City of St. Louis, Missouri.
B&W removed the case to the US contingent liabilities in connection with litigation to the extent District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri on 23 September relating to or arising from B&Ws US tobacco business as conducted 2005.
On 25 October 2005, the plaintiffs filed a motion to on or prior to 30 July 2004, including smoking and health tobacco remand, which was granted on 17 March 2006.
On 16 April 2008, litigation, whether the litigation is commenced before or after the court stayed the case pending US Supreme Court review in 30 July 2004 the Tobacco Litigation.
Good v. Altria Group, Inc. On 28 June 2011, the court issued a memorandum removing the case from the trial docket.
British American Tobacco 186 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued the Bankruptcy Code because three defendants filed bankruptcy 30 Contingent liabilities and petitions on 26 December 2000. financialcommitments continued Young is a case filed in November 1997 in the Circuit Court, Orleans Howard is a lights class action filed in February 2000 in the Parish, Louisiana.
The plaintiffs brought an Environmental Tobacco Circuit Court, Madison County, Illinois.
A judge certified a class on Smoke ETS class action on behalf of all residents of Louisiana 18 December 2001.
On 6 June 2003, the trial judge issued an order who, though not themselves cigarette smokers, have been exposed staying all proceedings pending resolution of Price v. Philip Morris, to second-hand smoke from cigarettes which were manufactured by Inc. a lights class action against Philip Morris, Inc. in the Illinois the defendants, and who allegedly suffered injury as a result of that state court.
The plaintiffs appealed this stay order to the Illinois Fifth exposure.
The plaintiffs seek to recover an unspecified amount of District Court of Appeals, which affirmed the Circuit Courts stay compensatory and punitive damages.
On 13 October 2004, the trial order on 19 August 2005.
There is currently no activity in the case.
court stayed this case pending the outcome of appellate review in Jones is a case filed in December 1998 in the Circuit Court, the Scott class action in Louisiana.
With appellate review completed Jackson County, Missouri.
The defendants removed the case and final judgment entered in the Scott class action, the trial court to the US District Court for the Western District of Missouri on granted the plaintiffs request to continue the stay of this action 16 February 1999.
The action was brought by tobacco product during the implementation of the Scott smoking cessation program users and purchasers on behalf of all similarly situated Missouri on 6 March 2013. consumers.
The plaintiffs allege that their use of the defendants In Engle a case in Florida, a jury awarded a total of US$12.7 million tobacco products has caused them to become addicted to to three class representatives, and in a later stage of the threenicotine.
The plaintiffs seek to recover an unspecified amount of phase trial procedure adopted in this case, a jury assessed compensatory and punitive damages.
The case was remanded US$17.6 billion in punitive damages against B&W.
On 21 May to the Circuit Court on 17 February 1999.
There has been limited 2003, the intermediate appellate court reversed the trial courts activity in this case.
judgment and remanded the case to the trial court with instructions Parsons is a case filed in February 1998 in the Circuit Court, Ohio to fide-certify the class: this was upheld on 6 July 2006.
Further, the County, West Virginia.
The plaintiff sued asbestos manufacturers and Florida Supreme Court permitted the judgments entered for two US cigarette manufacturers, including B&W, seeking compensatory of the three Engle class representatives to stand, but dismissed the and punitive damages US$1 million individually and an unspecified judgment entered in favour of the third Engle class representative.
sum for the class for alleged personal injuries arising from their Finally, the Florida Supreme Court permitted putative Engle class exposure to respirable asbestos fibres and cigarette smoke.
The case members to file individual lawsuits against the Engle defendants has been stayed pending a final resolution of the plaintiffs motion to within one year of the courts decision subsequently extended to refer tobacco litigation to the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation 11 January 2008. filed in In Re: Tobacco Litigation in the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia.
Moreover, Parsons has been stayed pursuant to Engle progeny cases, as at 31 December 2013: Engle progeny cases in which Engle progeny cases B&W has been served both state in which RJRT is named and federal courts in Florida as a successor to B&W Number of cases 43 4,229 Number of plaintiffs 99 5,104 Phase three trials of individual Engle class members, as at 31 December 2013: Additional Phase 3 Engle trials naming RJRT as successor to B&W proceeding to verdict Total number of trials 52 Number of trials resulting in plaintiffs verdicts 31 Total damages awarded in final judgments against RJRT as successor to B&W approximately US$150,510,671 Amount of overall damages comprising compensatory damages approximately US$72,860,671 of overall US$150,510,671 Amount of overall damages comprising punitive damages approximately US$77,650,000 of overall US$150,510,671 Number of adverse judgments appealed by RJRT 30 Number of adverse judgments not yet appealed, in which RJRT still has time to file an appeal 0 Of the 30 adverse judgments appealed by RJRT, nine were decided and or closed, and 21 appeals remain undecided.
In one of the appeals that was decided, the Florida intermediate appellate court affirmed the liability finding but vacated the damages award and remanded the matter to the trial court.
In two of the appeals that were decided, the Florida intermediate appellate courts reversed the final judgment and remanded the matter to the trial court for a new trial on all issues.
In another four appeals that were decided, the Florida intermediate appellate courts affirmed final judgments in favour of plaintiffs.
In the final two appeals, RJRT has paid damages to the plaintiffs in one: actual damages of US$450,000 and costs fees interest of US$2,390,011: in the other: damages of US$304,575 and the cases have been closed.
British American Tobacco 187 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials In June 2009, the Florida legislature amended its existing bond appellate courts has since certified to the Florida Supreme Court the cap statute by adding a US$200 million bond cap that applies to question of whether the bond cap violates the Florida Constitution.
all Phase 3 Engle progeny cases in the aggregate and establishing The Florida Supreme Court accepted jurisdiction over the issue of the individual bond caps for individual cases in amounts that vary constitutionality of the bond cap on 23 January 2012.
On 31 August depending on the number of judgments in effect at a given time.
2012, the Florida Supreme Court entered an order dismissing this In May 2011, Florida removed the provision in this legislation that case based on RJRTs mootness argument.
Plaintiff subsequently would have permitted this bond cap to expire on 31 December moved for a rehearing.
On 12 October 2012, the Florida Supreme 2012.
Plaintiffs in several Engle progeny cases have unsuccessfully Court denied plaintiffs motion.
Plaintiff did not file a petition for writ challenged the constitutionality of the bond cap.
One of these of certiorari to the United States Supreme Court.
c Individual cases Total number As at: of cases 31 December 2012 3,074 31 December 2013 3,063 2,572 ETS cases brought by flight attendants who were members of a class action Broin that was settled on terms that allow compensatory but not punitive damages claims by class members 396 Cases brought in consolidated proceedings in West Virginia, where the first phase of the trial began on 15 April 2013 and on 15 May 2013 the jury returned a verdict for defendants on all but one of plaintiffs claims: the verdict is currently on appeal 43 Engle progeny cases that have been filed directly against B&W please see earlier table on page 186 52 Cases filed by other individuals In addition to the 4,229 Engle progeny cases which name RJRT On 21 December 2009, the court denied the plaintiffs and B&Ws as successor to B&W, there are 14 cases filed by other individuals post-trial motions.
After an initial oral argument on both parties naming RJRT as successor to B&W.
These cases are subject to the appeals in September 2011, the intermediate appellate court RJRT Indemnification and are not detailed here.
ordered the parties to reargue the case en banc.
On 2 October 2012, the intermediate appellate court reversed the jurys award of Of the individual cases that remain pending as at 31 December punitive damages on the grounds that the trial court had exceeded 2013, one resulted in a verdict against B&W.
In February 2005, the scope of its mandate, and remanded for a new trial solely a Missouri jury Lincoln Smith awarded US$500,000 in to determine the amount of punitive damages.
On 30 October compensatory damages and US$20 million in punitive damages 2012, the intermediate appellate court denied B&Ws application against B&W.
Following B&Ws appeal, on 31 July 2007, an for transfer to the Missouri Supreme Court, and overruled intermediate appellate court affirmed the compensatory damages B&Ws motion for rehearing.
B&W filed in the Missouri Supreme award and reversed the punitive damages award, reasoning Court an application for transfer to that court on 14 November that the plaintiffs failed to produce sufficient evidence to justify 2012.
This application was granted on 18 December 2012. the verdict.
Following a transfer to the Missouri Supreme Court On 10 September 2013, the Missouri Supreme Court affirmed the and asubsequent remand by that court, the intermediate judgment of the circuit court.
B&W filed a motion for rehearing on appellate court on 16 December 2008 again upheld the award of 25 September 2013, and that motion was overruled by the Missouri compensatory damages, reversed the jurys award of US$20 million Supreme Court on 29 September 2013.
On 7 November 2013, the in punitive damages, and ordered a new trial on punitive damages.
On 20 August 2009, a Missouri jury awarded US$1.5 million in punitive damages against B&W.
On 24 September 2009, B&W filed a motion for a new trial and a motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict.
On the same date, the plaintiffs filed a motion for additur, seeking to increase the punitive damages award to US$20 million, and a motion to vacate, modify or set aside judgment, or in the alternative, for a new trial.
Cases pending against B&W which were filed by or on behalf of individuals and in which it is contended that diseases or deaths have been caused by cigarette smoking or by exposure to ETS British American Tobacco 188 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued Court declared its lack of jurisdiction to hear the claim.
On 11 March 30 Contingent liabilities and 2010, the case was sent to the  Court, financialcommitments continued which determined that it had jurisdiction over the case.
On 24 June d Conduct-based claims 2011, the  Court issued an Order stating that it would decide defendants outstanding procedural objections In the Daric Smith case, purchasers of cigarettes in the state of together with the merits of the case.
Kansas brought a class action in the Kansas State Court against B&W, Investments and certain other tobacco companies seeking The case is currently at the evidentiary stage.
Confessional hearings injunctive relief, treble damages, interest and costs.
The allegations took place on 14 August 2013 Emma Mendoza Voguet are that the defendants participated in a conspiracy to fix or and 29 August 2013 ATLA.
A final decision is not expected maintain the price of cigarettes sold in the US, including in the before 2015. stateof Kansas, in violation of the Kansas Restraint of Trade Act.
Brazil After the close of discovery, all defendants, including Investments, In August 2007, the So Paulo Public Prosecutors office filed a moved for summary judgment in late October and early November medical reimbursement claim against Souza Cruz S. A. Souza 2010.
On 13 May 2011, Investments supplemented its summary Cruz.
A similar claim was lodged against Philip Morris.
judgment motion on the basis of its fide minimis market share Souza Cruzs motion to consolidate the two claims was rejected and and the inapplicability of the Kansas Restraint of Trade Act to a instead this case was removed to a different lower court.
Souza Cruz non-resident such as Investments that did not purchase, sell or filed a motion to reconsider the refusal for consolidation and an manufacture goods in the state of Kansas.
interlocutory appeal against assignment to the lower court.
At the same time, the Public Prosecutor filed a motion challenging the On 26 March 2012, the court entered an order granting all of connection between the two cases, which argument the State Court the defendants summary judgment motions and dismissing the of Appeals accepted in August 2010 and ordered the two cases to plaintiffs first amended petition with prejudice.
On 4 October 2011, the court dismissed the plaintiff filed a notice of appeal on various points.
On or about the action against Souza Cruz, with a judgment on the merits.
1 August 2012, all defendants filed notices of cross-appeal, with The plaintiff filed an appeal on 9 January 2012 and Souza Cruz filed Investments filing its own separate notice of cross-appeal to address, its counter arguments on 17 February 2012.
On 29 September among other issues, various orders denying the defendants claims 2012, the case records arrived at the So Paulo Court of Appeals.
of privilege over certain categories of documents during discovery.
On 7 March 2013, the case records returned from the Public The plaintiff filed his appeal on 25 January 2013 and the defendants Prosecutors Office with a non-binding unfavourable opinion.
opposition and cross-appeal briefs were filed on 29 May 2013.
On 23 April 2013, the Justices of the 2nd Civil Chamber of the Court The plaintiff filed his combined reply response to Investments of appeals of the State of So Paulo, by unanimous vote 3 to 0, cross-appeal on 19 July 2013.
Investments filed a reply brief denied the appeal of the Prosecution Office, thereby confirming addressing the novel arguments raised in the plaintiffs reply the favourable Lower Court ruling.
In this ruling, the Justices, citing response relating toInvestments cross-appeal on privilege case precedents of the Superior Court of Justice, emphasised: i the issues.
The Court of Appeals heard oral argument in the case widespread public knowledge of the risks associated with smoking on11 December 2013. cigarettes: ii the free will of the smokers: iii the absence of any UK-based Group companies defect in the product: iv the absence of any duty to provide information on the risks associated with smoking before 1988: Investments has been served in the following US cases pending and v the lawfulness of manufacturing and producing cigarettes.
as at 31 December 2013: one class action alleging violations of To date, the Public Prosecutors Office has not filed an appeal.
Kansas antitrust and consumer protection laws, the Daric Smith casementioned above: and one individual action, the Perry case.
Canada In Canada there are nine active statutory actions for recovery of Product liability outside the United States healthcare costs arising from the treatment of smoking and healthAt 31 December 2013, active product liability claims against the related diseases.
These proceedings name various Group companies Groups companies existed in 16 markets outside the US 2012:17 as defendants, including the Company, Investments, B.
A. T Industries but the only markets with more than five claims were Argentina, p. l. c. Industries, Carreras Rothmans Limited collectively the UK Brazil, Canada, Italy and Nigeria.
As at 31 December 2013, medical Companies and Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited Imperial, reimbursement actions are being brought in Argentina, Brazil, the Groups operating company in Canada.
Legislation enabling Canada, Nigeria and Spain.
provincial governments to recover the healthcare costs has been enacted in all 10 provinces and two of three territories in Canada a Medical reimbursement cases and has been proclaimed in force in nine provinces.
The Acts have Argentina received Royal Assent in Nova Scotia, Northwest Territories and In 2007, the non-governmental organisation the Argentina Tort Nunavut but have yet to be proclaimed into force.
Actions have Law Association ATLA and Emma Mendoza Voguet brought begun against various Group companies, including Imperial, in a reimbursement action against Nobleza Piccardo S. A. I. C. y. F. British Columbia, New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Labrador, Nobleza and Massaln Particulares.
Several defences were filed by Ontario, Quebec, Manitoba, Alberta, Saskatchewan and Prince Nobleza on 1 October 2009.
Nobleza and the federal governments Edward Island PEI.
In Quebec, three Canadian manufacturers, preliminary objections regarding lack of jurisdiction were considered including Imperial, are challenging the enabling legislation: the by the Civil Court in late 2009.
On 23 December 2009, the Civil Quebec Government has commenced an action.
British American Tobacco 189 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Act pursuant to which Companies named as Canadian province Claim was brought Defendants and date served Current stage British Columbia Tobacco Damages Imperial.
The underlying medical reimbursement action remains at a and Health Care Costs preliminary case management stage.
Given the prior pendency Investments.
Recovery Act 2000 of the Supreme Court application, and a number of other factors including delay on the part of the plaintiff in producing damages Industries.
modelling materials, the trial date was adjourned generally and no trial date is currently set.
Other former Rothmans Group companies.
New Brunswick Tobacco Damages The UK Companies Both Imperial and the UK Companies have now filed their defences and Health Care Costs have all been named and document production is underway.
The parties are currently Recovery Act 2006 as defendants.
engaged in document production further to a consent order endorsed by the court on 6 May 2013.
Damages have been Imperial and the UK quantified at CAN$19 billion.
No trial date has been set.
Companies have all been served.
Ontario Tobacco Damages The UK Companies On 57 November 2012, appeals by the BAT defendants of both the and Health Care Costs have all been named jurisdictional and costs orders were heard by the Court of Appeal.
On 30 May 2013, the Court of Appeal dismissed the appeals and Imperial and the UK upheld the adverse costs award in respect of the first instance Companies have all hearing.
A motion for leave to appeal that decision to the Supreme been served.
Court of Canada was filed in August 2013.
The Supreme Court of Canada dismissed the leave application on 19 December 2013.
On 22 October 2013, the Court of Appeal issued an endorsement awarding the plaintiff its costs of the appeals.
Imperial filed a third-party notice against several native manufacturers claiming contribution and indemnity as well as damages in the amount of CAN$1.5 billion.
Imperial also filed a Third Party Claim against the Federal Government claiming malfeasance in public office due to the Governments failure to enforce the law against illicit manufacturers.
The Attorney General has indicated its intention to file a Motion to Strike the Claim, but no date has been set for this preliminary motion.
Following the Supreme Court of Canadas dismissal of the jurisdiction leave application, the case is under case management.
There is a schedule in place for pleadings-related motions, with motions to strike set to be heard from 29 June 2014.
Damages have been quantified at CAN$50 billion.
Newfoundland Tobacco Health Care The UK Companies There have been preliminary hearings, including a successful and Labrador Costs Recovery Act 2006 have all been named application in January 2012 to strike certain affidavits filed by the as defendants.
plaintiff in opposition to the UK Companies jurisdiction motions, and a hearing in June 2013 at which, in response to a request of the Imperial and the UK case management judge, the parties debated the elements of the Companies have all legal framework for a jurisdiction challenge.
Judgment in respect been served.
of that hearing was issued on 19 December 2013.
No further hearings or case management meetings have been scheduled.
British American Tobacco 190 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued 30 Contingent liabilities and financialcommitments continued Act pursuant to which Companies named as Canadian province claim was brought defendants and date served Current stage Saskatchewan Tobacco Damages The UK Companies This case is at an early case management stage.
and Health Care Costs have all been named The UK Companies challenged the jurisdiction of the Saskatchewan Recovery Act 2012 as defendants.
court at a hearing that commenced on 29 April 2013.
On 1 October Imperial and the UK 2013, the court denied the UK Companies challenges.
Leave to Companies have all appeal this ruling was sought and a hearing was scheduled for been served.
This hearing was adjourned on consent of the parties pending the outcome of the Supreme Court of Canada leave application in the Ontario jurisdiction challenge.
The leave application was dismissed on 19 December 2013.
No further case management meetings have been set.
Damages have not been quantified by the province.
Imperial served a motion which was granted to defer filing defences until pending jurisdictional challenges have been resolved.
There are no discovery motions to date in this jurisdiction.
Imperial served a motion which was denied to defer filing Health Care Costs defences until pending jurisdictional challenges have been resolved.
Recovery Act 2006 Imperial delivered a request for particulars on 30 September 2013.
The province filed a response on 16 January 2014.
The jurisdiction motions were scheduled to be heard on Other former Rothmans 2528 November 2013.
This hearing was adjourned on consent of Group companies.
the parties pending the outcome of the Supreme Court of Canada leave application in the Ontario jurisdiction challenge.
The province has not quantified damages.
Alberta Crowns Right of Imperial and the UK On 8 August 2012, Imperial was served with the Alberta Medicaid Recovery Act 2009 Companies have all been suit.
The UK Companies were served on 15 May 2013.
The UK named as defendants Companies informed the plaintiff that they intended to challenge and served.
the jurisdiction of the Alberta court.
A case management judge has been appointed and an initial case management meeting was held on 17 December 2013 at which it was agreed to put preliminary matters on hold pending the outcome of the Supreme Court of Canada leave application in the Ontario jurisdiction challenge.
The leave application was dismissed on 19 December.
Damages have been quantified at CAN$10 billion.
British American Tobacco 191 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Act pursuant to which Companies named as Canadian province claim was brought defendants and date served Current stage Quebec Tobacco Related Investments, Industries, On 25 August 2009, Imperial and the other Canadian manufacturers Damages and Health and Carreras Rothmans filed a constitutional challenge to the Quebec Medicaid Legislation.
Care Costs Recovery Limited have been The Quebec Attorney-General AG filed a motion to dismiss the Act 2005 named as defendants.
constitutional challenge and following a hearing, the Quebec Superior Court dismissed that motion.
Imperial and the UK Companies have On 28 January 2011, the Court of Appeal denied the AGs leave been served.
application, permitting Imperials challenge to proceed.
On 8 June 2012, the Quebec Medicaid suit was served upon Imperial.
The Government is seeking CAN$60 billion.
On 14 December 2012, Imperials Motion to stay the Medicaid suit pending the resolution of the constitutional challenge, was heard by the Court and taken under advisement.
The Constitutional Challenge was heard on 30 September 3 October 2013 and judgment remains under reserve.
The three UK Companies filed jurisdictional challenges on 15 March 2013 which were heard on 35 June 2013.
On 4 July 2013, the court denied the jurisdictional objections.
Leave to appeal the ruling was refused in a judgment issued by a Court of Appeal judge on 4 October 2013.
Defendants motions for further and better particulars and concerning other pleadings issues were heard on 15 and 22 November and 20 December 2013 and judgment is reserved.
A case management judge has been appointed.
Prince Tobacco Damages Imperial and the On 15 November 2012, Imperial was served with the PEI Medicaid Edward Island and Health Care Costs UK Companies suit.
This case is at a preliminary case management stage.
Recovery Act 2009 Damages have not been quantified by the province.
Motions to challenge jurisdiction were filed and served by the UK Companies on 11 January 2013.
A case management judge has been appointed but no date has been set for any case management conference or other hearing.
British American Tobacco 192 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued On 31 May 2013, the court notified BAT Espaa of the 30 Contingent liabilities and commencement of a 20-day period to answer the Juntas claim and financialcommitments continued produced copies of the documents attached to the statement of Nigeria claim.
BAT Espaa filed its response to the claim by the deadline of 27 June 2013.
As at 31 December 2013, six medical reimbursement actions filed by the federal government and five Nigerian states Lagos, By order dated 26 July 2013, the court refused to open the Kano, Gombe, Oyo, Ogun were pending in the Nigerian courts.
evidence phase of the proceedings.
The court accepted the British American Tobacco Nigeria Limited, BAT and Investments defendants allegations that the Junta did not fulfil its procedural have been named as defendants in each of the cases.
The plaintiffs in duty to establish the issues of fact to which the evidence would the six cases seek a total of approximately 44.8 billion in damages, relate.
In October 2013, the court declared the proceedings closed including special, anticipatory and punitive damages, restitution and pending its judgment.
In a judgment dated 23 December 2013, disgorgement of profits, as well as declaratory and injunctive relief.
the court rejected the Juntas claim against the tobacco companies On 13 and 25 May 2010, respectively, the plaintiffs in the Kano as inadmissible.
It is open to the Junta to file an appeal against this and Ogun state cases filed motions for preliminary injunctive relief, judgment before the Supreme Court.
seeking, inter alia, orders to restrain the defendants from various alleged marketing and distribution practices including the sale of b Class actions tobacco products within 1,000 metres of any public places that are Brazil predominantly locations for minors.
BAT and Investments have filed preliminary objections challenging the jurisdiction of the Nigerian There are currently three class actions being brought in Brazil.
On 22 June 2010, the Oyo High Court partially also a medical reimbursement claim So Paulo Public Prosecutors granted BATs and Investments preliminary objections and set aside Office, and is therefore discussed above.
A fourth class action the service of the writ of summons.
BAT and Investments appealed recently ended in the affirmance on appeal of a defence judgment, the courts order insofar as it denied the remainder of the relief as described below.
requested, and the Court of Appeal has yet to set a date for hearing of the appeals.
In 1995, the Associao fide Defesa da Sade do Fumante ADESF class action was filed against Souza Cruz and Philip Morris in the So The Federal High Court and the High Courts of Lagos, Kano, Gombe Paulo Lower Civil Court alleging that the defendants are liable to a and Ogun states denied the preliminary objections filed by BAT class of smokers and former smokers for failing to warn of cigarette and Investments, and the companies have appealed.
The case was stayed in 2004 pending the defendants proceedings in the Lagos and Kano state cases have been stayed appeal from a decision issued by the lower civil court that held that pending the appeals filed by BAT and Investments.
In the Gombe the defendants had not met their burden of proving that cigarette and Ogun cases, the High Courts have adjourned proceedings smoking was not addictive or harmful to health, notwithstanding without date.
As at 31 December 2013, the appeals filed by BAT an earlier interlocutory order that the So Paulo Court of Appeals and Investments remain pending in the Federal, Lagos, Kano and had issued, which directed the trial court to allow more evidence Gombe cases, and have yet to be heard by the Court of Appeal.
to be taken before rendering its decision.
On 12 November 2008, On 23 April 2013 and 16 May 2013, the Court of Appeal Ibadan the So Paulo Court of Appeals overturned the lower courts Judicial Division issued decisions affirming the Ogun High Courts unfavourable decision of 2004, finding that the lower court had denial of the preliminary objections filed by BAT, Investments and failed to provide the defendants with an opportunity to produce British American Tobacco Nigeria Limited.
The case was returned to the lower court for production appealed the decisions to the Supreme Court of Nigeria.
of evidence and a new judgment.
On 19 March 2009, the Lower Civil Court ordered designation of court-appointed medical and Spain advertising experts.
The parties submitted questions to these In early 2006, the Government of Andalusia and the Andalusian court-appointed experts who subsequently delivered their reports.
Health Services hereinafter referred to as the Junta, in Spain, Each party also provided expert reports commenting on the filed a medical reimbursement action against the State and tobacco court-appointed experts conclusions.
On 16 May 2011, the court companies including BAT Espaa S. A. before the contentiousgranted Souza Cruzs motion to dismiss the action in its entirety on administrative courts.
The State filed preliminary objections to the the merits.
Plaintiffs filed an appeal of the dismissal on 22 July 2011.
Juntas claim, with tobacco companies filing supporting briefs.
Souza Cruz filed its response on 5 October 2011.
On 10 November The court upheld these preliminary objections and dismissed the 2011, the case records were sent to the Public Prosecutors Office.
The Juntas appeal of this ruling to the On 20 December 2011, the Public Prosecutors Office presented a Supreme Court was dismissed in September 2009.
However, in non-binding, advisory opinion that rejected most of Souza Cruzs May2009, the Junta filed a new  claim legal defence arguments.
The case records were sent to the So with similar allegations.
The defendants filed procedural objections, Paulo State Court of Appeals and were immediately sent to the which were rejected by the court.
Public Prosecutors office for General Public and Collective Interest.
British American Tobacco 193 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials On 1 March 2012, the case files returned with an unfavourable In 2004, the State of Sergipe instigated a class action seeking opinion given by the Public Prosecutor, who advised that the compensation for smokers in Sergipe State who purportedly tried to Court should find in favour of the appeal brought by ADESF and quit smoking.
The lower court denied the plaintiffs request for early thereby fully reverse the appealed judgment.
On 6 September relief and determined ANVISA a federal government health agency 2012, the case was assigned to a new temporary Reporting be ordered to join the case as co-defendants.
As ANVISA is a federal Justice in the 7th Chamber of Private Law of the So Paulo Court agency, the case was removed to the federal court where ANVISA of Appeals, pending reference to a permanent Reporting Justice successfully argued that it lacked standing to be sued.
On 10 October 2013, a Reporting Justice of the case against ANVISA was dismissed and the federal court sent the case was designated.
back to the lower state court for proceedings to continue.
However, the action was stayed on 18 December 2009 pending a decision by The Brazilian Association for the Defense of Consumers Health the Superior Court on which court has jurisdiction.
On 26 March Saudecon filed a class action against Souza Cruz and Philip 2010 the Superior Court determined that the civil court had Morris in the City of Porto Alegre, Brazil, on 3 November 2008. jurisdiction of the matter.
On 19 October 2011, the court dismissed The plaintiff purports to represent all Brazilian smokers whom, it the action with judgment on the merits.
The plaintiff filed an appeal alleges, are unable to quit smoking and lack access to cessation on 9 January 2012.
Souza Cruzs counter-arguments were submitted treatments.
The plaintiff is seeking an order requiring the named on 9 February 2012.
The case records were sent to the 1st Chamber defendants to fund, according to their market share, the purchase of the Sergipe State Court of Appeals, as well as to the Public of cessation treatments for these smokers over a minimum period Prosecutors Office for it to consider an advisory opinion.
Souza Cruz was served with this complaint on 2012, the 1st Chamber of the Sergipe State Court of Appeals by 19 November 2008.
On 18 May 2009, the case was dismissed unanimous decision upheld the lower court ruling that dismissed the with judgment on the merits.
The plaintiffs appealed in August case.
Plaintiffs did not file a Special Appeal from this judgment and 2009 and Souza Cruz and Philip Morris both responded.
On 22 July the case is now closed.
2011, the Public Prosecutors Office issued a non-binding opinion Canada saying that the favourable first instance ruling should be vacated based on procedural issues.
On 25 August 2011, the reporting There are 10 class actions being brought in Canada against justice of the appellate court rejected the Public Prosecutors Offices Group companies.
opinion, finding that the trial court ruling should not be nullified.
Knight is a lights class action in which the plaintiff alleges that On 1 November 2011, the 9th Chamber of the Rio Grande do the marketing of light and mild cigarettes is deceptive because it Sul State Court of Appeals granted the Public Prosecutors Office conveys a false and misleading message that those cigarettes are special appeal, ordering the remittance of the case records in less harmful than regular cigarettes.
Although the claim arises from the first instance to complete proper notification to the Public health concerns, it does not seek compensation for personal injury.
Prosecutors Office of the sentence.
On 14 December 2011, the Instead it seeks compensation for amounts spent on light and mild Public Prosecutors Office filed a special appeal.
Souza Cruzs counter products and a disgorgement of profits from Imperial.
arguments were submitted on 10 February 2012.
On 28 March 2012, the Rio Grande do Sul State Court of Appeals recognised The Supreme Court of British Columbia certified a class of all the applicability of the special appeal and ordered it sent up to consumers who purchased in British-Columbia Imperial cigarettes the Superior Court of Justice.
On 5 June 2013, the Superior Court bearing light or mild descriptors since 1974.
Imperial filed an dismissed the interlocutory appeal filed by the Public Prosecution appeal against the certification which was heard in February 2006.
On 7 June 2013, the case records were sent to 15th Civil The appellate court confirmed the certification of the class but has Chamber of Rio Grande do Sul State Court of appeals and Justice limited any financial liability, if proven, to 1997 onward.
Angelo Maraninchi Giammakos was designated as Reporting The motion of the federal government to strike out the third-party Justice.
On 4 July 2013, the case records returned from the Public notice issued against it by Imperial was upheld by the Supreme Prosecutors Office with a non-binding favourable opinion, based Court which dismissed the third-party claim on the basis that on the free will and awareness of smokers, the fact that the products the federal governments impugned conduct constituted valid were not defective, and the lawfulness of manufacturing cigarettes.
policy benefiting public health and was therefore not subject to On 18 December 2013, the Rio Grande do Sul State Court rendered civil liability.
a decision in favour of defendants, based on free will, awareness and lawful activity.
The plaintiffs right to appeal has not yet expired.
indd 193 13 03 2014 11:42 British American Tobacco 194 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued In June 2009, four new smoking and health class actions were 30 Contingent liabilities and filed in Nova Scotia, Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta, against financialcommitments continued Canadian manufacturers and foreign companies, including the UK On 9 December 2009, Imperial was served with a class action filed Companies and Imperial.
In Saskatchewan, a number of the UK by Ontario tobacco farmers and the Ontario Flue-Cured Tobacco Companies have been released from the action.
No date has been Growers Marketing Board Growers claim.
The plaintiffs allege set for the certification motion hearing.
There are service issues in that, during a specific timeframe, Imperial and two other domestic relation to the UK Companies in Alberta and Manitoba.
defendants improperly paid lower prices for tobacco leaf destined for duty-free products that were then smuggled back into Canada In July 2010, two further smoking and health class actions in and sold in the domestic market.
In reaction to the suit, Imperial British Columbia were served on Imperial and the UK companies.
deposited the amount owing to the Government of Ontario, The Bourassa claim is allegedly on behalf of all individuals who pursuant to the Comprehensive Agreement, into an escrow account, have suffered chronic respiratory disease and the McDermid claim alleging that the Comprehensive Agreement permitted Imperial to proposes a class based on heart disease.
Both claims state that set-off that amount against costs incurred as a result of the claim they have been brought on behalf of those who have smoked a including damages, if any.
In response, the Ontario Government minimum of 25,000 cigarettes.
The UK Companies objected to commenced an application against Imperial, seeking the release jurisdiction.
Subsequently a number of the UK Companies were of the funds Ontario claim.
No monetary damages are being released from the action.
No certification motion hearing date has claimed against Imperial by the Government of Ontario.
On 26 July 2010, Imperial argued a preliminary motion in the In June 2012, a new smoking and health class action was filed in Ontario claim seeking a stay in favour of arbitration given an Ontario against the domestic manufacturers and foreign companies, arbitration clause in the Comprehensive Agreement.
Imperial was including Imperial and the UK Companies.
Imperial was served successful in its application and the Court ordered that the on 20 November 2012, and the UK Companies were served on Ontario claim be stayed.
The Court of Appeal denied the Ontario 30 November 2012.
The claim is presently in abeyance.
Governments appeal in July 2011, but also ruled that the question Italy of whether the Growers Claim constitutes a Released Claim under In or about June 2010, BAT Italia was served with a class action filed the Comprehensive Agreement must be determined by the courts, in the Civil Court of Rome by the consumer association, Codacons, thereby splitting the issues.
On 2 January 2013, the Court rendered and three class representatives.
Plaintiffs primarily asserted addictiona decision in favour of Ontario and held that the Growers claim is related claims.
The class action lawsuit was rejected at the first not a Released Claim brought by a Releasing Entity.
On 16 July instance Civil Court of Rome and appellate Rome Court of Appeal 2013, the Court of Appeal dismissed Imperials appeal on whether court levels.
In July 2012, Codacons filed an appeal before the the Growers claim is a Released Claim made by a Released Italian Supreme Court.
BAT Italia filed its answer to the appeal on Entity, allowing the class action to proceed.
The parties are now waiting for the Supreme The question of whether Imperial may continue to set-off payments Court to schedule a hearing for the discussion of the case.
due to Ontario under the Comprehensive Agreement against costs Venezuela incurred as a result of the Growers claim remains a live issue and is proceeding to arbitration.
The Venezuelan Federation of Associations of Users and Consumers filed a class action against the Venezuelan Government seeking As a further preliminary challenge, Imperial has alleged that the regulatory controls on tobacco and recovery of medical expenses for Growers claim is time barred.
The other domestic defendants have future expenses of treating smoking-related illnesses in Venezuela.
made the same preliminary challenge.
That preliminary issue was On 19 January 2009, C. A Cigarrera Bigott Sucs.
Cigarrera Bigott heard by Court on 30 and 31 January 2014.
If Imperial is successful, notified the court of its intention to appear as a third party.
The court the Growers claim will be dismissed: if not successful, the action will adjourned a public hearing, initially scheduled for 28 July 2009, proceed to a class action certification hearing.
where Cigarrera Bigotts status as a third party would be determined There are currently two class actions in Quebec.
On 21 February and parties would present evidence and make arguments.
2005, the Quebec Superior Court granted certification in two class On 16 September 2009, the Venezuelan Republic ordered the court actions against Imperial and two other domestic manufacturers, to continue the judicial process.
which have a combined value of CAN$27 billion plus interest and On 12 April 2011, however, the Constitutional Chamber of the costs.
The court certified two classes, which include residents of Supreme Court of Justice issued decision number 494, which Quebec who suffered from lung, throat and laryngeal cancer or established the rules for class action procedures.
On 5 December emphysema as of November 1998 or developed these diseases 2012 Cigarrera Bigott was admitted as a third party and presented thereafter and who smoked a minimum of 15 cigarettes a day for its defences and evidence on 26 February 2013.
The parties will at least five years, and residents who were addicted to nicotine at now be asked to attend a hearing at the Constitutional Chamber: the time the proceedings were filed and who have since remained however, no date for the hearing has yet been scheduled by the addicted.
The plaintiffs application to amend the scope of the Court.
On 9 October 2013 ASUSELECTRIC filed a petition requiring definition of the disease and addiction classes was granted on 3 July the Constitutional Chamber to schedule the hearing.
In Quebec, there is no right of appeal for a defendant upon certification.
The trial in this matter commenced on 12 March 2012 and remains ongoing.
British American Tobacco 195 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials c Individual personal injury claims be the subject of further motion practice that is anticipated to occur in 2014.
Procedurally, the claims of the Flintkote Plaintiffs are As at 31 December 2013, the jurisdictions with the most number of now separated from the claims of the Hopkins Plaintiffs, and it is active individual cases against Group companies were, in descending anticipated that they will be tried separately.
Additional discovery order: Brazil 164, Italy 22, Argentina 20, Canada 5, Chile 4 and motion practice is expected to occur throughout 2014. and Ireland 2.
There were a further seven jurisdictions with one The Court has not set a trial date, but a trial on the Flintkote active case only.
Plaintiffs claims could occur in late 2014 or early 2015.
The alter ego claims of the Hopkins Plaintiffs will not proceed to trial until after the Non-tobacco related litigation Flintkote claims are concluded.
Flintkote The Flintkote Company Flintkote, a US company formerly Fox River engaged in the production and sale of asbestos-containing products, In Wisconsin, the authorities have identified potentially responsible was included in the acquisition of Genstar Corporation by Imasco parties PRPs to fund the clean-up of river sediments in the lower Limited in 1986 and became a Group subsidiary following the Fox River.
The pollution was caused by discharges of polychlorinated restructuring of Imasco Limited now Imperial Tobacco Canada biphenyls PCBs from paper mills and other facilities operating Limited Imperial, the Groups operating company in Canada close to the river.
Among the PRPs is NCR Corporation NCR.
Soon after this acquisition, and as part of the acquisition plan, Genstar Corporation began to sell most of its assets, including As regards the mid and lower portions of the Fox River, in March the non-asbestos related operations and subsidiaries of Flintkote.
2012, the US Government filed a motion in Wisconsin for a The liquidation of Flintkote assets produced cash proceeds and, preliminary injunction against NCR and Appvion Inc. Appvion, having obtained advice from the law firm of Sullivan & Cromwell seeking to establish the scope of the clean-up operations to be LLP S&C and other advice that sufficient assets would remain to carried out on the Fox River in 2012.
In light of a subsequent ruling satisfy reasonably foreseeable liabilities, Flintkotes Board of Directors by the same court that Appvion is not a PRP, the injunction was authorised the payment of a dividend of US$170.2 million in 1986 granted against NCR alone on 27 April 2012.
NCR appealed this and a further dividend of US$355 million in 1987.
In 2003, Imperial decision and it was affirmed on 3 August 2012.
Full trial of the merits divested Flintkote and then, in 2004, Flintkote filed for bankruptcy of the US Governments application for a permanent injunction in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware.
took place in December 2012 and the Court entered a permanent In 2006, Flintkote, representatives of both the present and future injunction against NCR.
On 1 May 2013, the Wisconsin Court ruled asbestos plaintiffs collectively, the Flintkote Plaintiffs, and certain that the pollution in the Fox River is not divisible.
As a result of this individual asbestos plaintiffs the Hopkins Plaintiffs were permitted and other decisions referred to below, NCR is wholly responsible by the Bankruptcy Court to file a complaint in the California State for the clean-up of those portions of the river.
On 28 June 2013, Court against Imperial and numerous other defendants, including a NCR filed a notice of appeal against this judgment, and that malpractice claim against S&C, for the recovery of the dividends and appeal is pending in the United States Court of Appeals for the other compensation under various legal and equitable theories.
Following a multi-day bench trial, the California State Court issued In a series of rulings, the Wisconsin Court has also held that NCR is a preliminary decision dismissing the claim against S&C.
Before the not entitled to recover any amounts in contribution from other PRPs decision was made final, Flintkote settled with S&C for a nominal and that the other PRPs are entitled to recover Fox River clean-up sum.
All claims and cross-claims in the litigation asserted by or costs from NCR.
Cross-claims by Appvion against other PRPs to against S&C have now been dismissed.
After another series of recover its own Fox River related expenditures were finally rejected bench trials, on 6 October 2011, the court issued preliminary orders by the Wisconsin Court on 25 June 2013.
These orders are on appeal deciding multiple preliminary issues regarding Flintkotes claims to before the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.
recover the dividends and Flintkotes claim that Imperial is its alter ego for purposes of asbestos liabilities.
Among other things, the A trial took place in Wisconsin in February 2012 to determine court has concluded that Flintkote is barred from seeking to recover, whether NCR is also liable for the clean-up costs in the upper portion under any theory, transfers that occurred after 31 December 1986. of the Fox River.
This trial addressed whether NCR is liable as a result The court also concluded that Flintkote has no standing to pursue of the sale, by a predecessor of NCRs Appleton Papers Division, of its claim that Imperial is its alter ego for purposes of asbestos liability, scrap paper, or broke, to other PRPs which, in turn, discharged holding that any such claims must instead be pursued by individual PCBs into the upper portion of the river in the course of recycling asbestos plaintiffs.
These rulings were made final on 6 January the broke.
A judgment issued in July 2012 found NCR was not 2012.
Thereafter, the Flintkote Plaintiffs agreed to dismiss certain liable on this basis and this order was made final on 27 June 2013. oftheir claims, but continue to assert fraudulent conveyance claims This decision is currently on appeal to the United States Court of and equitable restitution claims, as reflected in Third Amended Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.
In August 2013, the Court implemented certain of its earlier decisions by granting summary In NCRs Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarterly period judgment to Imperial on the plaintiffs claims to recover the 1987 ended 30 September 2013, the total clean-up costs for the Fox dividends.
The Court also granted summary judgment to Imperial River are estimated at US$827 million.
This estimate is subject to on the plaintiffs fraudulent conveyance claims that were based on uncertainties and does not include natural resource damages which allegations that Flintkote was insolvent at the time of the dividend.
NCR estimates may range from US$0 to US$246 million albeit the Nonetheless, Flintkote continues to pursue claims that effectively US Government in one court filing in 2009 indicated that natural seek recovery of the value of 1987 dividend, and those claims will resource damages could be as high as US$382 million.
British American Tobacco 196 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued Appvion sought to join Industries to the arbitration on the basis it 30 Contingent liabilities and was a necessary party and included a new claim that Industries is financialcommitments continued liable for 50% of Appvions past liability and future liability to NCR In 1978, a subsidiary of Industries, later known as Appleton Papers under the Settlement Agreement.
On 8 October 2013, the arbitral Inc. and now known as Appvion, purchased what was then NCRs panel rejected Appvions attempted joinder and the arbitration will Appleton Papers Division from NCR.
In 1978, Industries also proceed between NCR and Appvion only.
incorporated a US entity by the name of BATUS, Inc. BATUS, which in 1980 became the holding company for all of Industries Industries is aware that Windward settled the majority of Appvions US subsidiaries, including Appvion.
As the holding company, BATUS insurance claims over which it had control at what Industries obtained insurance policies for itself and its subsidiaries that included believes constituted a significant discount, and has made dividend coverage for certain environmental liabilities.
Industries BATUS spun payments to its former and current shareholders of approximately off the Appvion business in 1990 via a Demerger Agreement with US$810 million, leaving it holding, according to its latest accounts, Wiggins Teape Appleton p. l. c. now known as Windward Prospects approximately US$70 million of net assets.
Accordingly, there may Ltd Windward, and Wiggins Teape Appleton Holdings be a greater risk that the assets of Windward are insufficient to meet p. l. c. now known as Arjo Wiggins US Holdings Ltd collectively, its obligations under the indemnities Industries believes it has been the AWA Entities, obtaining what Industries believes were full granted.
Appvions own accounts indicate limited financial resources.
indemnities from the AWA Entities and Appvion for past and future It is possible, although Industries considers it unlikely, that French law environmental claims.
could govern some of the claims Industries considers Windward has Disputes between NCR, Appvion, and Industries as to the against its former shareholder, Sequana S. A. Sequana, in relation indemnities given and received under the original purchase to the dividend payments, which would mean that the limitation agreement in 1978 have been the subject of litigation that was period in respect of those claims could have potentially expired in commenced in 1995, a settlement agreement effective from December 2013.
In order to protect its position in the event that 1998 the Settlement Agreement, and an arbitration award French law was held to govern the claims, Industries applied to in 2005.
NCR has taken the position that, under the terms of the the English Court on 2 October 2013 to seek to appoint a receiver Settlement Agreement and the arbitration award, Industries and over the relevant causes of action.
Judgment was handed down Appvion generally have an obligation to bear 60% of the Fox River on 21 November 2013.
The judge held that absent an appropriate environmental remediation costs imposed on NCR, but Industries undertaking from Windward, receivers should be appointed in order has never been required to pay any sums in this regard because, to commence the dividend claims in the name of Windward and until May 2012, Appvion and the AWA Entities paid such costs, thereby protect the limitation position.
and the authorities have not identified Industries or BATUS as In addition to taking steps to protect claims which Industries PRPs.
Windward also has a separate and indirect indemnification considers Windward has against Sequana, Industries filed its own obligation to Appvion in respect of the clean-up costs.
direct claims seeking to recover the dividend payments from Subsequent to the preliminary injunction entered and affirmed Sequana in both the High Court of Justice of England and Wales the against NCR in 2012, and by letters dated 3 May 2012, NCR made High Court on 9 December 2013 and before the Commercial demands on both Appvion and Industries for payment of the sum Court of Nanterre, France, on 13 December 2013. of US$6.6 million, stated to be due on a joint and several basis In December 2011, Windward asserted that it did not indemnify pursuant to the terms of the Settlement Agreement and being Industries pursuant to the terms of the 1990 Demerger Agreement 60% of costs paid by NCR so that remedial work could begin in in respect of Industries obligations under the Settlement Agreement.
accordance with the preliminary injunction.
Appvion refused to Industries disputes Windwards position and has commenced pay this sum, whereupon NCR filed a motion in Wisconsin in order proceedings in the High Court against both Windward and to enforce the terms of the Settlement Agreement and arbitration Appvion which has also denied owing Industries an indemnity.
In a ruling handed down in September Windward served its defence on 8 July 2013.
Appvion has 2012 the court declined to enforce the terms of the Settlement challenged the jurisdiction of the English Court and a hearing took Agreement and arbitration award, holding that the amount, place on 2 and 3 October 2013.
Judgment was handed down on of which Appvion is liable to pay 60%, must be ascertained via 20 December 2013.
The Court dismissed Appvions challenge, the dispute resolution provisions of the Settlement Agreement.
holding that the English Court should exercise its jurisdiction to hear Industries understands that NCR subsequently invoked the dispute the claim.
The proceedings are now continuing in the English High resolution provisions contained in the Settlement Agreement as Court against both Windward and Appvion.
On 12 February 2014, against Appvion, and on 29 March 2013 commenced an arbitration Appvion served a Defence and Counterclaim.
The Counterclaim against Appvion seeking to recover incurred and on-going clean-up seeks recovery of 50% of Appvions previous clean-up related costs of at least US$39.9 million plus interest and legal costs and payments alleged to be 50% of US$211.25 million, or a declaration that Appvion is liable to NCR under the Settlement US$105.6 million.
Agreement for 60% of all Claims, Damages and Group Defence Costs as defined in the Settlement Agreement it will incur.
NCR has continued to make payment demands on Appvion since commencing the arbitration and, as at 15 November 2013, was seeking payment of approximately US$80.7 million from Appvion.
British American Tobacco 197 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials While Industries believes it may have defences to any claims brought General litigation conclusion by NCR against it under the Settlement Agreement and arbitration While it is impossible to be certain of the outcome of any particular award, taking into account court decisions and the possibility of case or of the amount of any possible adverse verdict, the Group appeals, sums paid to date on the clean-up and other available believes that the defences of the Groups companies to all these information, Industries believes it may have an exposure of some various claims are meritorious on both the law and the facts, and a 267 million as at 31 December 2013 in relation to clean-up vigorous defence is being made everywhere.
If an adverse judgment related costs.
Accordingly, Industries has retained a provision of is entered against any of the Groups companies in any case, an 267 million.
Such appeals could require the appellants to post appeal bonds or substitute security in amounts which could Industries is aware that NCR is also being pursued by Georgia-Pacific, in some cases equal or exceed the amount of the judgment.
In any as the owner of a facility on the Kalamazoo River in Michigan which event, with regard to US litigation, the Group has the benefit of released PCBs into that river.
Georgia-Pacific has been designated the RJRT Indemnification.
At least in the aggregate, and despite the as a PRP in respect of the river.
Georgia-Pacific contends that NCR is quality of defences available to the Group, it is not impossible that responsible for, or should contribute to, the clean-up costs, because the Groups results of operations or cash flows in particular quarterly i a predecessor to NCRs Appleton Papers Division sold broke or annual periods could be materially affected by this and by the containing PCBs to Georgia-Pacific or others for recycling: ii NCR final outcome of any particular litigation.
itself sold paper containing PCBs to Georgia-Pacific or others for recycling: and or iii NCR is liable for sales to Georgia-Pacific or Having regard to all these matters, with the exception of Fox River, others of PCB containing broke by Mead Corporation, which, like the Group i does not consider it appropriate to make any provision the predecessor to NCRs Appleton Papers Division, coated paper in respect of any pending litigation: and ii does not believe that with the PCB containing emulsion manufactured by NCR.
A full trial the ultimate outcome of this litigation will significantly impair the on liability took place in February 2013.
On 26 September 2013, the Groups financial condition.
Michigan Court held that NCR was liable as a PRP on the basis that broke sales constituted an arrangement for the disposal of hazardous Tax disputes material for the purposes of CERCLA.
The decision was based on The Group has exposures in respect of the payment or recovery of NCRs knowledge of the hazards of PCBs from at least 1969, but a numbers of taxes.
The Group is and has been subject to a number the court did not specify directly the entity ies whose broke sales of tax audits covering, among others, excise tax, value added taxes, form the basis of NCRs liability.
NCR will have the ability to appeal sales taxes, corporate taxes, withholding taxes and payroll taxes.
the ruling once a final judgment has been entered or it has been otherwise certified for appeal.
The second phase of the Kalamazoo The estimated costs of known tax obligations have been provided trial, scheduled to commence on 28 July 2015, will determine in these accounts in accordance with Groups accounting policies.
the apportionment of liability among NCR, Georgia-Pacific and In some countries, tax law requires that full or part payment of the other PRPs International Paper Company and Weyerhauser disputed tax assessments be made pending resolution of the Company.
Industries anticipates that NCR may seek to recover from dispute.
To the extent that such payments exceed the estimated Appvion and or Industries 60% of any Kalamazoo clean-up costs for obligation, they would not be recognised as an expense.
which it is found liable on the basis, it would be asserted, that the river constitutes a Future Site for the purposes of the Settlement The following matters may proceed to litigation: Agreement.
Industries believes it may have defences to any such claim by NCR.
The quantum of the clean-up costs for the Kalamazoo Brazil River is presently unclear as is the extent of NCRs liability in respect The Brazilian Federal Tax Authority has filed two claims of such costs, but could run into the hundreds of millions of dollars.
against Souza Cruz seeking to reassess the profits of overseas subsidiaries to corporate income tax and social contribution tax.
As detailed above, Industries is taking active steps to protect its The first reassessment was for the years 20042006 in the sum of interests, including seeking to confirm its indemnities and to procure R$476 million 122 million to cover tax, interest and penalties.
the repayment of the Windward dividends, with a view to restoring The second reassessment was for the years 2007 and 2008 in the value to Windward and, accordingly, the indemnities it believes were amount of R$244m 62 million to cover tax, interest and penalties.
Souza Cruz appealed both reassessments and the matters are at the second tier administrative appeal process.
Regarding the first assessment the Souza Cruz appeal was rejected although the written judgment of that tribunal is still awaited.
The appeal against the second assessment was upheld at the second tier tribunal.
There is one further administrative appeal level before the matter enters the judicial system.
Souza Cruz has decided not to participate in the tax amnesty programme REFIS announced by the Brazilian Government in 2013.
British American Tobacco 198 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes on the accounts continued Operating leases 30 Contingent liabilities and Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable financialcommitments continued operating leases comprise leases where payments fall due: Canada 2013 2012 The Canada Revenue Agency CRA has challenged the treatment m m of dividend income received by Imperial Tobacco Canada Ltd Property ITCAN from its investments in fellow group subsidiaries.
The CRA and provincial tax authorities reassessed ITCAN for the years 2002 Within one year 55 56 to 2005 in the sum of CAN$99 million 56 million.
ITCAN has Between one and five years 114 126 appealed and paid the sum of CAN$58 million 33 million to Beyond five years 29 49 enable it to pursue the appeal.
The CRA has reassessed ITCAN for 198 231 the years 20062009 in the sum of CAN$104 million 59 million and has accepted a letter of credit inthe amount of CAN$58 million Plant and equipment 33 million in lieu of payment.
The provincial tax authorities are Within one year 25 26 considering reassessments for the years 20062009 in the sum of Between one and five years 40 37 CAN$53m 30 million and whether or not to accept letters of 65 63 credit for CAN$32m 18 million in lieu of payment.
The matter may proceed to litigation although no court date has yet been set.
South Africa SARS has challenged the debt financing of British American Tobacco South Africa and reassessed the years 20062008 in the sum of R600 million 35 million.
BATSA has appealed the assessments anddiscussions with the authorities are ongoing.
The Group believes that the Groups companies have meritorious defences in law and fact in each of the above matters and intends to pursue each dispute through the judicial system as necessary.
The Group does not consider it appropriate to make provision for these amounts assessed nor for any potential further amounts which may be assessed in subsequent years.
While the amounts that may be payable or receivable in relation to tax disputes could be material to the results or cash flows of the Group in the period in which they are recognised, the Board does not expect these amounts to have a material effect on the Groups financial condition.
British American Tobacco 199 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 31 Interests in subsidiaries Subsidiaries with material non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests principally arise from the Groups listed investments in Brazil Souza Cruz SA and Malaysia British American Tobacco Malaysia Berhad where the Group holds 75% and 50% of the respective listed holding companies.
Summarised financial information for these subsidiaries is shown below as required by IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities.
As part of the Groups reporting processes, both entities report consolidated financial information for their respective groups which have been adjusted to comply with Group accounting policies which may differ to local accounting practice.
Goodwill in respect of Malaysia, which arose as a result of the acquisition of the Rothmans group referred to in note 9, has not been included as part of the net assets below.
No adjustments have been made to the information below for the elimination of intercompany transactions and balances with the rest of the Group.
Souza Cruz Group Malaysia Group 2013 2012 2013 2012 Summarised financial information m m m m Revenue 1,838 1,946 504 452 Profit for the year 504 527 167 164 Attributable to non-controlling interests 126 130 84 82 Total comprehensive income 388 457 167 164 Attributable to non-controlling interests 94 111 83 82 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 117 114 81 76 Summary net assets: Non-current assets 424 474 61 75 Current assets 1,261 1,414 104 119 Non-current liabilities 118 163 7 59 Current liabilities 908 975 152 134 Total equity at the end of the year 659 750 6 1 Attributable to non-controlling interests 181 207 3 1 Net cash generated from operating activities 588 597 166 151 Net cash used in investing activities 61 28 5 7 Net cash used in financing activities 619 502 165 190 Differences on exchange 63 97 1 Decrease in net cash and cash equivalents 33 30 5 46 Net cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 391 421 16 62 Net cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 358 391 11 16 Other shareholdings In Principal subsidiary undertakings, the Group discloses that it holds 85% of the equity shares of PT Bentoel Internasional Investama Tbk Bentoel.
In 2011, the Group sold 984 million shares, representing approximately 14% of Bentoels share capital, for the purposes of fulfilling certain obligations pursuant to Bapepam LK Indonesia takeover regulations.
The Group simultaneously entered into a total return swap on 971 million of the shares.
As a consequence of this and for the duration of the swap, while the Group does not have legal ownership of these shares, it retains the risks and rewards which results in the Group continuing to recognise an effective interest in 99% ofBentoels net assets and results.
