British American Tobacco 112 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Responsibility of Directors The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Statement of the directors in relation to the the Annual Report on www.
com in accordance with the UK annual report and financial statements legislation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial The Board confirms that it considers that this Annual Report, taken statements.
Access to the website is available from outside the UK, as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides where comparable legislation may be different.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors consider that they have pursued the actions necessary to meet their responsibilities as set out in this statement.
When making this assessment, the Board was supported by a recommendation from the Audit Committee, who oversaw well Directors declaration in relation to relevant established and effective processes in relation to its preparation.
audit information Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Companys Directors responsibilities in relation to the auditors, each of the Directors confirms that: financial statements The following statement sets out the responsibilities of the Directors to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, there is no in relation to the financial statements of both the Group and the relevantaudit information of which the Companys auditors Company.
The reports of the independent auditors for the Group areunaware: and and the Company set out their responsibilities in relation to those he or she has taken all steps that a Director might reasonably be financial statements.
expected to have taken in order to make himself or herself aware Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of auditors are aware of that information.
affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group and the Company for the Directors responsibility statement financial year.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge and belief that: are required to: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the select appropriate accounting policies and apply them consistently: applicable accounting standards identified above, give a true and make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the Group: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures being disclosed the Directors Report and the Strategic Report include a fair andexplained: and review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and the Company, together with a prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
unlessthey consider that to be inappropriate.
The names of the Directors are listed in this Directors Report and The applicable accounting standards referred to above are: their details appear on the Board of Directors page.
a United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP for the Company: and b International Financial Neither the Company nor the Directors accept any liability to any Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union person in relation to this Annual Report except to the extent that andimplemented in the UK for the Group.
such liability could arise under English law.
Accordingly, any liability to a person who has demonstrated reliance on any untrue or The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company keeps misleading statement or omission shall be determined in accordance sufficient accounting records to disclose with reasonable accuracy with section 90A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the The responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, and that on 26 February 2014 and signed on its behalf by: the Company financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also Richard Burrows Ben Stevens responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of Chairman Finance Director and CIO the Company and the Group and, in that context, having proper regard to the establishment of appropriate systems of internal control with a view to the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements and to provide the auditors with every opportunity to take whatever steps and undertake whatever inspections the auditors consider to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit report.
