FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTEs TO THE FINANCIAL sTATEMENTs continued under the historical cost convention, as modified by the On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 38.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 2013 2012 revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets and financial of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date AND REsOURCEs m m assets and liabilities including derivatives at fair value of acquisition.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at Capital management Total Tier 1 capital 508.4 448.7 through profit or loss.
the fair value of consideration paid, including an estimate The Group is supervised on a consolidated basis by the Less: Intangible assets 120.5 115.4 of any contingent or deferred consideration.
Contingent UKs Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
The Groups Less: Investment in own shares 1.5 1.5 The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group and or deferred consideration is remeasured at each statement operations in Australia, Japan, Singapore, South Africa and the Company are set out in note 41. of financial position date with periodic changes to the the United States, are also regulated.
Individual capital Total capital resources CR 386.4 331.8 estimated liability recognised in the consolidated income requirements in these jurisdictions are taken into account C apital resources requirement CRR 41.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as when managing the Groups capital resources.
Pillar 1 115.1 100.4 Basis of preparation incurred.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair The Groups regulatory capital resources management Surplus 271.3 231.4 The accounting policies which follow have been applied values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised objective is to ensure that the Group complies with the in preparing the Financial Statements for the year ended as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition regulatory capital resources requirement set by the FCA 31 May 2013. below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired 39. sUBsEQUENT EvENTs and other global regulators in jurisdictions in which the discount on acquisition is credited to the profit and loss in Subsequent to the year-end, in accordance with the phased As permitted by Section 408 1 b, 4 of the Companies Groups entities operate.
transfer agreed with the FCA for the Group to hold a liquid Act 2006, the individual income statement of IG Group assets buffer of up to 100.0 million by August 2013, the The Groups capital management policy aims to maximise Holdings plc the Company has not been presented in The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during Group has purchased 32.3 million of additional BIPRU 12 returns on equity while maintaining a strong capital these Financial Statements.
The amount of profit for the year the year are included in the consolidated income statement qualifying assets please refer to note 20 for further details.
position to enable the Group to take advantage of growth dealt with in the Financial Statements of IG Group Holdings from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective Following this purchase the Group now holds 83.1 million opportunities, whether organic or by acquisition.
A statement of date of disposal, as appropriate.
of BIPRU 12 qualifying assets within the liquid assets buffer.
Group does not seek to generate higher returns on equity comprehensive income for IG Group Holdings plc has also Where necessary, adjustments are made to the Financial by introducing leverage through, for example, the use of not been presented in these Financial Statements.
No items Further, on 19 July 2013 the Group completed the Statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies long-term debt finance.
of other comprehensive income arose in the year 2012: nil.
renegotiation of the liquidity facilities with a syndicate of used into line with those used by other members of three banks.
In doing so the Group has increased the size The Groups 2012 ICAAP was approved by the Board in The Group and Company Financial Statements are presented the Group.
of the overall facility to 200.0 million and established a January 2013.
There have been no capital requirement in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand longer-term liquidity funding arrangement.
Of the total breaches during the financial year.
The Group also regularly Non-controlling interests pounds 000, except where otherwise indicated.
facility 120.0 million is available for a period of one year undertakes three-year stress and scenario testing of its Where the Group and a non-controlling shareholder enter and 80.0 million is available for three years respectively Going concern main financial and operational risks to project its future into a forward contract symmetrical put and call options from the facility signing date.
The Directors have prepared the Financial Statements on capital and liquidity adequacy requirements.
under which the Group is required to purchase the nona going concern basis which requires the Directors to have controlling interest for its fair value formulae based The Groups Pillar 3 Disclosures are published on a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate 40.
AUTHORIsATION OF FINANCIAL valuation at the forward date, the Group continues to its website www.
com and these provide resources to continue in operational existence for the sTATEMENTs AND sTATEMENT OF recognise the non-controlling interest at the proportionate additional information on the Groups enterprise-wide foreseeable future.
COMPLIANCE WITH IFRs share of the acquirees identifiable net assets, until expiry Risk Management Framework and its management of The Financial Statements of IG Group Holdings plc the of the arrangement.
The forward liability is also recognised Basis of consolidation regulatory capital on a consolidated and solo entity basis.
Company and its subsidiaries together the Group for the for managements best estimate of the present value of the The Group Financial Statements consolidate the Financial year ended 31 May 2013 were authorised for issue by the redemption amount with a corresponding entry in equity.
Capital resources Statements of IG Group Holdings plc and the entities it Board of the Directors on 23 July 2013 and the statements The accretion of the discount on the liability is recognised as The Group had significant surplus regulatory capital controls its subsidiaries made up to the reporting date as of financial position signed on the Boards behalf by a finance charge in the consolidated income statement.
The resources over the Pillar 1 regulatory capital resources listed in note 16.
IG Group Holdings plc is a public liability is remeasured to the final redemption amount with requirement throughout the year.
An analysis of the limited company incorporated and domiciled in England any periodic changes to the estimated liability recognised Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their Groups consolidated capital resources and capital and Wales.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on in the consolidated income statement.
On expiry of the acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains resources requirement is provided in the Operating and the London Stock Exchange.
forward, the liability is eliminated as paid and any difference control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that Financial Review.
in the value of the non-controlling interest to the exercise such control ceases.
Control comprises the power to govern The Group and Company Financial Statements have price deducted from equity.
The following table summarises the Groups capital the financial and operating policies of the investee so as been prepared in accordance with International Financial adequacy on a consolidated basis.
to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European On an acquisition by acquisition basis, non-controlling interests direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: currently Union EU and IFRIC interpretations as they apply to the are measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling exercisable or convertible potential voting rights, or by way Financial Statements of the Group and of the Company for interest proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
The Financial Statements of the the year ended 31 May 2013 and applied in accordance subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Group Financial Statements are prepared for the same reporting as transactions with equity owners of the Group.
For and Company Financial Statements have been prepared year as the parent company and are based on consistent purchases from non-controlling interests, the difference accounting policies.
All intercompany balances and between any consideration paid and the relevant share transactions between Group entities, including unrealised acquired of the carrying value of the non-controlling interest profits arising from them, are eliminated on consolidation.
144 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 145
