FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTEs TO THE FINANCIAL sTATEMENTs continued under the historical cost convention, as modified by the On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 38.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 2013 2012 revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets and financial of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date AND REsOURCEs m m assets and liabilities including derivatives at fair value of acquisition.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at Capital management Total Tier 1 capital 508.4 448.7 through profit or loss.
the fair value of consideration paid, including an estimate The Group is supervised on a consolidated basis by the Less: Intangible assets 120.5 115.4 of any contingent or deferred consideration.
Contingent UKs Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
The Groups Less: Investment in own shares 1.5 1.5 The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group and or deferred consideration is remeasured at each statement operations in Australia, Japan, Singapore, South Africa and the Company are set out in note 41. of financial position date with periodic changes to the the United States, are also regulated.
Individual capital Total capital resources CR 386.4 331.8 estimated liability recognised in the consolidated income requirements in these jurisdictions are taken into account C apital resources requirement CRR 41.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as when managing the Groups capital resources.
Pillar 1 115.1 100.4 Basis of preparation incurred.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair The Groups regulatory capital resources management Surplus 271.3 231.4 The accounting policies which follow have been applied values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised objective is to ensure that the Group complies with the in preparing the Financial Statements for the year ended as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition regulatory capital resources requirement set by the FCA 31 May 2013. below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired 39. sUBsEQUENT EvENTs and other global regulators in jurisdictions in which the discount on acquisition is credited to the profit and loss in Subsequent to the year-end, in accordance with the phased As permitted by Section 408 1 b, 4 of the Companies Groups entities operate.
transfer agreed with the FCA for the Group to hold a liquid Act 2006, the individual income statement of IG Group assets buffer of up to 100.0 million by August 2013, the The Groups capital management policy aims to maximise Holdings plc the Company has not been presented in The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during Group has purchased 32.3 million of additional BIPRU 12 returns on equity while maintaining a strong capital these Financial Statements.
The amount of profit for the year the year are included in the consolidated income statement qualifying assets please refer to note 20 for further details.
position to enable the Group to take advantage of growth dealt with in the Financial Statements of IG Group Holdings from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective Following this purchase the Group now holds 83.1 million opportunities, whether organic or by acquisition.
A statement of date of disposal, as appropriate.
of BIPRU 12 qualifying assets within the liquid assets buffer.
Group does not seek to generate higher returns on equity comprehensive income for IG Group Holdings plc has also Where necessary, adjustments are made to the Financial by introducing leverage through, for example, the use of not been presented in these Financial Statements.
No items Further, on 19 July 2013 the Group completed the Statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies long-term debt finance.
of other comprehensive income arose in the year 2012: nil.
renegotiation of the liquidity facilities with a syndicate of used into line with those used by other members of three banks.
In doing so the Group has increased the size The Groups 2012 ICAAP was approved by the Board in The Group and Company Financial Statements are presented the Group.
of the overall facility to 200.0 million and established a January 2013.
There have been no capital requirement in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand longer-term liquidity funding arrangement.
Of the total breaches during the financial year.
The Group also regularly Non-controlling interests pounds 000, except where otherwise indicated.
facility 120.0 million is available for a period of one year undertakes three-year stress and scenario testing of its Where the Group and a non-controlling shareholder enter and 80.0 million is available for three years respectively Going concern main financial and operational risks to project its future into a forward contract symmetrical put and call options from the facility signing date.
The Directors have prepared the Financial Statements on capital and liquidity adequacy requirements.
under which the Group is required to purchase the nona going concern basis which requires the Directors to have controlling interest for its fair value formulae based The Groups Pillar 3 Disclosures are published on a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate 40.
AUTHORIsATION OF FINANCIAL valuation at the forward date, the Group continues to its website www.
com and these provide resources to continue in operational existence for the sTATEMENTs AND sTATEMENT OF recognise the non-controlling interest at the proportionate additional information on the Groups enterprise-wide foreseeable future.
COMPLIANCE WITH IFRs share of the acquirees identifiable net assets, until expiry Risk Management Framework and its management of The Financial Statements of IG Group Holdings plc the of the arrangement.
The forward liability is also recognised Basis of consolidation regulatory capital on a consolidated and solo entity basis.
Company and its subsidiaries together the Group for the for managements best estimate of the present value of the The Group Financial Statements consolidate the Financial year ended 31 May 2013 were authorised for issue by the redemption amount with a corresponding entry in equity.
Capital resources Statements of IG Group Holdings plc and the entities it Board of the Directors on 23 July 2013 and the statements The accretion of the discount on the liability is recognised as The Group had significant surplus regulatory capital controls its subsidiaries made up to the reporting date as of financial position signed on the Boards behalf by a finance charge in the consolidated income statement.
The resources over the Pillar 1 regulatory capital resources listed in note 16.
IG Group Holdings plc is a public liability is remeasured to the final redemption amount with requirement throughout the year.
An analysis of the limited company incorporated and domiciled in England any periodic changes to the estimated liability recognised Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their Groups consolidated capital resources and capital and Wales.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on in the consolidated income statement.
On expiry of the acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains resources requirement is provided in the Operating and the London Stock Exchange.
forward, the liability is eliminated as paid and any difference control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that Financial Review.
in the value of the non-controlling interest to the exercise such control ceases.
Control comprises the power to govern The Group and Company Financial Statements have price deducted from equity.
The following table summarises the Groups capital the financial and operating policies of the investee so as been prepared in accordance with International Financial adequacy on a consolidated basis.
to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European On an acquisition by acquisition basis, non-controlling interests direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: currently Union EU and IFRIC interpretations as they apply to the are measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling exercisable or convertible potential voting rights, or by way Financial Statements of the Group and of the Company for interest proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
The Financial Statements of the the year ended 31 May 2013 and applied in accordance subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Group Financial Statements are prepared for the same reporting as transactions with equity owners of the Group.
For and Company Financial Statements have been prepared year as the parent company and are based on consistent purchases from non-controlling interests, the difference accounting policies.
All intercompany balances and between any consideration paid and the relevant share transactions between Group entities, including unrealised acquired of the carrying value of the non-controlling interest profits arising from them, are eliminated on consolidation.
144 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 145 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTEs TO THE FINANCIAL sTATEMENTs continued Property, plant and equipment goodwill and is not amortised.
To the extent that the net fair Intangible assets with a finite life are amortised over their 41.
ACCOUNTING POLICIEs CONTINUED Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less value of the acquired entitys identifiable assets, liabilities expected useful lives, as follows: Losses applicable to the non-controlling shareholder accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment and contingent liabilities is greater than the cost of the in a consolidated subsidiarys equity may exceed the losses.
Cost comprises the aggregate amount paid and the investment, a gain is recognised immediately in the income non-controlling interest in the subsidiarys equity.
The Development costs straight-line basis over three years fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the statement.
Any goodwill asset arising on the acquisition of excess, and any further losses applicable to the nonSoftware and licences straight-line basis over the contract asset and includes costs directly attributable to making the equity accounted entities is included within the cost of controlling shareholder, are allocated against the majority term of up to five years asset capable of operating as intended.
interest, except to the extent that the non-controlling Trade names sum of digits method over two years shareholder has a binding obligation and is able to make an C lient lists and sum of digits method over Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any additional investment to cover the losses.
If the subsidiary customer three to five years equipment at rates calculated to write off the cost, less accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value subsequently reports profits, such profits are allocated to relationships estimated residual value based upon estimated useful lives.
being reviewed for impairment, at least annually and the majority interests until the non-controlling shareholders Domain names straight-line basis over 10 years Estimated residual value and useful lives are reviewed on whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that share of losses previously absorbed by the majority has an annual basis and residual values are based on prices the carrying value may be impaired.
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for prevailing at the statement of financial position date.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis over the allocated to the related cash-generating units monitored indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
In loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the expected useful lives as follows: by management, usually at business segment level or addition, the carrying value of capitalised development Group and is presented within equity in the consolidated statutory company level as the case may be.
Where the expenditure is reviewed for impairment annually before statement of financial position, separately from parent Leasehold improvements over the lease recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than being brought into use.
term of up to its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment loss 15 years Impairment of assets is recognised in the income statement.
Foreign currencies Office equipment, fixtures and fittings over five years At least annually, or when impairment testing is required, The functional currency of each company in the Group is Computer and other equipment over two, three or The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cashthe Directors review the carrying amounts of the Groups that of the country of incorporation as disclosed in note 16 five years generating unit is taken into account when determining property, plant and equipment and intangible assets to as this is consistent with the primary economic environment the gain or loss on disposal of the unit, or of an operation determine whether there is any indication that those assets in which the entity operates.
The Groups most significant within it.
have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication functional currency is Sterling.
Transactions in other The carrying values of property, plant and equipment exists or at least annually for goodwill, the recoverable currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency are reviewed for impairment when events or changes Intangible assets amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the by applying spot exchange rates prevailing on the dates in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does of the transactions.
At each statement of financial position recoverable, and are written down immediately to their amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
not generate cash flows that are independent from other date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign recoverable amount.
assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
exchange prevailing on the same date.
Non-monetary assets carried initially at cost.
An intangible asset acquired as upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in part of a business combination such as a trade name or The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the customer relationship is recognised at fair value outside selling costs and value-in-use.
In assessing value-in-use, the The gain or loss arising on derecognition of an asset is date when the fair value was determined.
Gains and losses goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present determined as the difference between the sale proceeds arising on translation are taken to the income statement, or other legal rights and its fair value can be measured values using a pre-tax discount rate.
This rate reflects current and the carrying amount of the asset and is included in the except for exchange differences arising on monetary assets reliably.
Expenditure on internally developed intangible market assessments of the time value of money as well as income statement in the period of derecognition.
and liabilities that form part of the Groups net investment in assets, excluding development costs, is taken to the income the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of a foreign operation.
These are taken directly to equity until statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Development Goodwill future cash flows have not been adjusted.
the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset only after Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess recognised in profit or loss.
all the following criteria are met: If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less of the cost of acquisition fair value of consideration paid than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups The projects technical feasibility and commercial viability reduced to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a business at overseas operations are translated into Sterling at exchange can be demonstrated recognised as an expense immediately.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset rates prevailing on the statement of financial position date.
The availability of adequate technical and financial and is allocated to cash-generating units for purposes of Income and expense items are translated at the average resources and an intention to complete the project have An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether impairment testing.
Cash-generating units represent the exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences been confirmed there is any indication that previously recognised impairment smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash arising, if any, are classified as equity and taken directly The correlation between development costs and future losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from to a translation reserve.
Such translation differences are revenue has been established indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated.
A other assets or groups of assets.
recognised as income or as expenses in the period in previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if which the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value Following initial recognition, the historic cost model there has been a change in the estimates used to determine Business combinations are accounted for using the adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity is applied, with intangible assets being carried at cost the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss purchase method.
Any excess of the cost of the business are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and less accumulated amortisation and accumulated was recognised.
If that is the case, the carrying amount of the combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value translated at the closing rate.
asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have is recognised in the statement of financial position as 146 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 147 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTEs TO THE FINANCIAL sTATEMENTs continued Level 1: Valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active to clients and brokers are netted against other assets The amount of segregated client funds held at year-end is 41.
ACCOUNTING POLICIEs CONTINUED markets for identical financial instruments and liabilities with the same counterparty where a legally disclosed in note 19 to the Financial Statements.
The return been determined, had no impairment loss been recognised Level 2: Valued using techniques where a price is derived enforceable netting agreement is in place and where it is received on managing segregated client funds is included for the asset in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss based significantly on observable market data.
For anticipated that assets and liabilities will be netted within net operating income.
is recognised as income immediately, although impairment losses relating to goodwill may not be reversed.
example, where an active market for an identical financial on settlement.
Title transfer funds are held by the Group under a Title instrument to the product offered by the Group to its Trade receivables represent balances with counterparties Transfer Collateral Arrangement TTCA by which a client Investments in subsidiaries clients or used by the Group to hedge its market risk does and clients where the combination of cash held on account agrees that full ownership of such monies is unconditionally Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less not exist and the valuation of financial derivative open positions result transferred to the Group.
Title transfers funds are accordingly accumulated impairment losses.
Level 3: Valued using techniques that incorporate in an amount due to the Group.
A provision for impairment held on the Groups statement of financial position with a information other than observable market data that is Operating leases is established where there is objective evidence of noncorresponding liability to clients within trade payables.
significant to the overall valuation Leases are classified as operating leases where the lessor collectability.
Reference is made to an aged profile of debt retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership Financial investments and the provision is subject to management review.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities of the asset.
Lease payments under an operating lease Financial investments are held as available-for-sale and are A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over Trade payables represent balances with counterparties and non-derivative financial assets that are not classified as held the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled the lease term unless another systematic basis is more clients where the combination of cash held on account and for trading, designated at fair value through profit or loss, or or expires.
representative of the time pattern of the users benefit.
the valuation of financial derivative open positions results in loans and receivables.
Financial investments are recognised an amount payable by the Group.
They are initially recognised at fair Financial assets Financial instruments value plus directly related transactions costs.
They are A financial asset is derecognised where the rights to receive Prepayments and other receivables The Group determines the classification of its financial subsequently carried at fair value.
Fair value is the quoted cash flows from the asset have expired, the Group retains Prepayments and other receivables are non-derivative instruments at initial recognition in accordance with the market price of the specific investments held.
the right to receive cash flows from the asset but has financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that categories outlined below and re-evaluates this designation assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading Financial investments available-for-sale are carried at fair at each financial year-end.
When financial instruments are delay to a third party under a pass-through arrangement, assets and have not been designated as fair value through value.
Unrealised gains or losses are reported in equity in recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, being or the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows profit and loss.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost the available-for-sale reserve and in other comprehensive the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets and from the asset and either a has transferred substantially using the effective interest method if the time value of income, until such investments are sold, collected or financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss, all the risks and rewards of the asset, or b has neither money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognised in otherwise disposed of, or until any such investment is directly attributable transaction costs.
Financial instruments transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and income when the receivables are derecognised or impaired, determined to be impaired.
On disposal of an investment, are disclosed in note 36 to the Financial Statements.
rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
and when economic benefit is consumed.
A provision for the accumulated unrealised gain or loss included in equity Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value impairment is established where there is objective evidence is recycled to the income statement for the period and Where the Group has transferred its rights to receive through profit or loss of non-collectability.
Gains and losses on disposal are cash flows from an asset and has neither transferred nor Financial assets and financial liabilities classified as held for determined using the average cost method.
retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset trading, or designated as such on inception, are included Cash and cash equivalents nor transferred control of the asset, the asset is recognised in this category and relate to the financial derivative Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits which Interest on financial investments is included in interest using to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement in open positions included in trade receivables due from may be accessed without penalty.
Cash equivalents comprise the Effective Interest Rate EIR method.
Continuing involvement that takes the form of brokers and trade payables due to clients as shown short-term highly liquid investments that are readily a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts in the statement of financial position and related notes.
convertible into known amounts of cash and which are lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the estimated future cash payments or receipts through Financial instruments are classified as held for trading if they subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
For the maximum amount of consideration that the Group could be the expected life of the financial instrument or, when are expected to settle in the short-term.
The Group uses purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, net cash required to repay.
appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount derivative financial instruments, in order to hedge derivative and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as of the financial asset or financial liability.
When calculating exposures arising from open client positions, which are also defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Financial liabilities the effective interest rate, the Group estimates cash flows classified as held for trading.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation The Group holds money on behalf of clients in accordance considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
with the client money rules of the UK Financial Conduct for example, prepayment, call and similar options but shall All financial instruments at fair value through the profit or Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another Authority FCA and other regulatory bodies.
Such monies not consider future credit losses.
The calculation includes loss are carried in the statement of financial position at from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the are classified as either cash and cash equivalents or all fees and points paid or received between parties to the fair value with gains or losses recognised in revenue in the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such segregated client funds in accordance with the relevant contract that are an integral part of the effective interest consolidated income statement.
an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition regulatory requirements.
Segregated client funds comprise rate see IAS 18 Revenue, transaction costs, and all other of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, Determination of fair value individual client funds held in segregated client money premiums or discounts.
such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts Financial instruments arising from open client positions and accounts or money market facilities.
Segregated client together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in the Groups hedging positions are stated at fair value and At the year-end date the Group considers whether there is money accounts hold statutory trust status restricting the profit or loss.
disclosed according to the valuation hierarchy required by objective evidence that a financial investment available-forGroups ability to control the monies and accordingly such IFRS 7.
Fair values are predominantly determined by reference sale is impaired.
In the case of such evidence, it is considered amounts and are not held on the Groups statement of Trade receivables and trade payables to third party market values bid prices for long positions and impaired if its cost exceeds the recoverable amount.
Assets or liabilities resulting from profit or losses on open offer prices for short positions as detailed below: recoverable amount for a quoted financial investment positions are carried at fair value.
Amounts due from or available-for-sale is determined by reference to the market 148 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 149 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTEs TO THE FINANCIAL sTATEMENTs continued Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary Revenue recognition Operating profit 41.
ACCOUNTING POLICIEs CONTINUED differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and Trading revenue represents gains and losses arising on client Operating profit is the sum of the results of the principal price.
A quoted financial investment available-for-sale is associates, except where the Group is able to control the trading activity primarily in financial spread betting, contracts activities of the Group after charging depreciation of considered impaired if objective evidence indicates that reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that for difference or binary bets and the transactions undertaken property, plant and equipment, amortisation of intangible the decline in market price has reached such a level that the temporary difference will not reverse in the to hedge the risk associated with client trading activity.
assets, operating lease rentals on land and buildings, foreign recovery of the cost value cannot be reasonably expected foreseeable future.
Open client and hedging positions are carried at fair market exchange differences, profit or loss on sale of property, plant within the foreseeable future.
value and gains and losses arising on this valuation are and equipment and other administrative expenses.
If a financial investment available-for-sale is determined The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at recognised in revenue as well as gains and losses realised on to be impaired, the cumulative unrealised loss previously each statement of financial position date and reduced to the Exceptional items positions that have closed.
The policies and methodologies recognised in equity is recycled to profit for the period and extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable Exceptional items are those items of income and expense associated with the determination of fair value have been reported in other income.
profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to that the Group considers are material and or of such a discussed above under Financial Instruments.
nature that they merit separate presentation in order to aid a revenue also includes spread, commission and funding Other payables readers understanding of the Groups financial performance.
charges made to clients in respect of the opening, holding Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an Non-trading financial liabilities are recognised initially at and closing of financial spread bets, contracts for difference undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to Finance costs and interest expense on segregated fair value and carried at amortised cost using the effective or binary bets.
apply when the related asset is realised or liability is settled, client funds interest rate method if the time value of money is significant.
based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted Finance costs and interest expense on segregated client Revenue is recognised when it is probable that economic Provisions at the statement of financial position date.
Deferred tax is funds are accrued on a time basis by reference to the benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present charged or credited in the income statement, except when principal amount charged at the effective interest rate Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it relates to items credited or charged directly to equity, in applicable.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Trading revenue also includes member fees charged by the discounts the future expected cash flows to the carrying to settle the obligation, and the amount can be reliably Groups regulated futures and options exchange.
Issue costs are included in the estimated.
Provisions are in respect of onerous leases.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they determination of the effective interest rates.
relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority Trading revenue is reported gross of introductory broker Taxation and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and commission as these amounts are directly linked to trading Interest expense on segregated client funds is disclosed The income tax expense represents the sum of tax currently liabilities on a net basis.
Introductory broker commission, along with betting within operating profit as this is consistent with the nature of payable and movements in deferred tax.
duties paid, are disclosed as an expense in arriving at net the Groups operations.
Classification of shares as debt or equity operating income.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the When shares are issued, any component that creates a Retirement benefit costs period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in financial liability of the Group is presented as a liability in Finance revenue and interest income on segregated The Group operates defined contribution schemes.
the income statement because it excludes items of income the statement of financial position, measured initially at fair client funds is accrued on a time basis, by reference to Contributions are charged to the income statement as or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods value net of transaction costs and thereafter at amortised the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate and when they become payable according to the rules of and it further excludes items that are never taxable or cost until extinguished on conversion or redemption.
The effective interest rate is the rate which the schemes.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated corresponding dividends relating to the liability component exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts over the using tax rates in the respective jurisdictions that have Dividends are charged as interest expense in the income statement.
expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying been enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of Dividend distribution to the companys shareholders is amount.
Interest income on segregated client funds is financial position date.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded recognised as a liability in the Groups Financial Statements disclosed within revenue and therefore operating profit as as the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Equity in the period in which the dividends are approved by the this is consistent with the nature of the Groups operations.
Deferred tax is accounted for on all temporary differences instruments are classified according to the substance of the Companys shareholders.
between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument Net trading revenue, disclosed on the face of the Discontinued operations Financial Statements and the corresponding tax basis used is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets consolidated income statement and in the notes to the Discontinued operations consist of a single major line of in the computation of taxable profit.
In principle, deferred of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Financial Statements, represents trading revenue from business or a geographical area that have either been tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences financial instruments carried at fair value through profit Own shares held in Employee Benefit Trusts closed or sold during the period or are classified as held for and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is and loss and has been disclosed net of introductory broker Shares held in trust by the Company for the purposes of sale at the year-end.
The financial performance and cash probable that taxable profits will be available, against which commission as this is consistent with the management employee share schemes are classified as a deduction flows of discontinued operations are separately reported in deductible temporary differences may be utilised.
Such information received by the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
from shareholders equity and are recognised at cost.
note 11. assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary Consideration received for the sale of such shares is Dividends receivable are recognised when the shareholders difference arises from goodwill or negative goodwill In the year ended 31 May 2012 the Groups Sport business also recognised in equity, with any difference between right to receive the payment is established.
or from the initial recognition other than in a business was disclosed as a discontinued operation.
There were no the proceeds from the sale and the original cost being combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction discontinued operations in the year ended 31 May 2013. taken to revenue reserves.
No gain or loss is recognised that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Please refer to note 11 for additional detail.
in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
150 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 151 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTEs TO THE FINANCIAL sTATEMENTs continued Segment information New and amended standards adopted by the Group Amendment to IAS 28 Investment in Associates and Joint 41.
ACCOUNTING POLICIEs CONTINUED The Groups segmental information is disclosed in a manner The Group has early adopted the following new or amended Ventures effective 1 January 2013 Share-based payments consistent with the basis of internal reports regarding standards as of 1 June 2012: The Company operates two employee share plans: a Share Amendment to IFRS 7 Disclosures Offsetting Financial components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by Incentive Plan and a value-sharing plan.
Previously the Group Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of items of Other Assets and Financial Liabilities effective 1 January 2013 operated a Long Term Incentive Plan the last award of which the Chief Operating Decision Maker, who for the Group Comprehensive Income effective for periods beginning was made in 2009, all of which are all equity-settled.
are the Executive Directors CODM in order to assess the Amendment to IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements after 1 July 2012 performance and to allocate resources to those operating effective 1 January 2013 For market-based vesting conditions, the cost of these segments.
The Group has therefore determined its Other new standards, amendments and interpretations, awards is measured at fair value calculated using option operating segments based on the management information Amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits including those listed below, have been issued but are pricing models refer to note 31 for additional detail of received on a regular basis by the Executive Directors of effective 1 January 2013 not effective for accounting periods beginning 1 June the models and assumptions used for the various award the IG Group Holdings plc Board as they are considered to 2012 and have not been early adopted by the Group: schemes and are recognised as an expense in the income The new standards and amendments above are not expected be the CODM.
Operating segments that do not meet the statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period to have a material impact on the Group or Company.
quantitative thresholds required by IFRS 8 are aggregated.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, issued in November based on the Companys estimate of the number of shares 2009, amended 2010.
This standard is the first step in The Group envisages that the reportable segments may that will eventually vest.
the process to replace IAS 39, Financial Instruments, change as overseas businesses move towards operational For non-market based vesting conditions, at each statement recognition and measurement.
IFRS 9 introduces new maturity, breaking through the quantitative thresholds of of financial position date before vesting, the cumulative requirements for classifying and measuring financial IFRS 8.
The segments are therefore subject to annual review expense is calculated representing the extent to which the assets.
The standard is not applicable until 1 January 2015 and the comparatives restated to reflect any reclassifications vesting period has expired and managements best estimate and has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
The Group has within the segmental reporting.
of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions yet to assess the impact of IFRS 9 determining the number of equity instruments that will Changes in accounting policies IFRS 13 Fair value measurement ultimately vest.
The movement in cumulative expense The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of effective 1 January 2013 since the previous statement of financial position date is Financial Statements are consistent with those followed in recognised in the income statement as part of administrative the preparation of the Groups Annual Report for the year IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements expenses, with a corresponding entry in equity.
ended 31 May 2012. effective 1 January 2013 The grant by the Company of options over its equity IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements instruments to employees of the subsidiary undertakings in effective 1 January 2013 the Group is treated as a capital contribution.
The fair value of the employee services received is recognised over the IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities vesting period as an increase in the investment in subsidiary effective 1 January 2013 undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity.
IAS 19 revised 2011 Employee benefits effective 1 January 2013 Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures effective 1 July 2013 IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation effective 1 January 2014 152 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 153
