110 Glossary Short form Definition Term Assets under AUM Value of all funds and assets managed by the FMC.
management Carried Interest Carry Share of profits that the fund manager is due once it has returned cost of investment and agreed preferred return to investors.
Cash core income CCI Profit before tax excluding fair value movement on derivatives, unrealised capital gains, impairments and unrealised rolled up interest.
Catch up fees Fees not previously accrued on basis of income being uncertain or fees payable bymezzanine fund investors for periods prior to current close.
Collateralised CDO Investment grade security backed by pool of non mortgage based bonds, loans DebtObligation and other assets.
CDO values and payment are derived from a portfolio of fixed income underlying assets.
Collateralised CLO CLO is a type of CDO, which is backed by a portfolio of loans.
LoanObligation Close A stage in fundraising whereby fund is able to release or draw down the money raised to that date, to enable it to begin investing.
Employee Benefit Trust EBT Special purpose vehicle used to purchase ICG plc shares which is used to satisfy share options and awards granted under the Groups employee share schemes.
Financial Conduct FCA Successor to the FSA which regulates conduct by both retail and wholesale Authority financial service firms in provision of services to consumers.
Financial Reporting FRC UKs independent regulator responsible for promoting high quality corporate Council governance and reporting to foster investment.
Fund Management FMC Groups operating vehicle, which sources and manages investments on behalf Company ofthe IC and third party funds.
High Yield Sub investment grade bond that have higher risk of default but pays higheryields.
Investment Company IC The investment unit of ICG plc.
It co-invests alongside third party funds.
Leveraged Buy Out LBO Acquisition which is financed by a significant amount of borrowed money.
Assetsof the acquired company will usually be used as collateral for loans.
Our business Business review Funds and portfolio Governance Financial statements Intermediate Capital Group plc 2 17 18 37 38 45 46 76 77 112 Annual Report 2013 111 Short form Definition Term Medium Term Incentive MTIS Old incentive scheme closed in FY12.
Scheme Mezzanine Mezzanine refers to a subordinated debt or preferred equity instrument that represents a claim on a companys assets which is senior only to equity.
Payment in Kind PIK Also known as rolled up interest.
PIK is to be interpreted as interest accruing untilmaturity or refinancing, without any cash flows until that time.
Performance fees Incentive fees based on the performance of CDO assets and carried interest income based on the performance on mezzanine funds.
Pre-incentive cash profit PICP Profit before tax adjusted for non cash items, fair value movement of derivatives, unrealised capital gains and unrealised rolled up interest.
Return on equity ROE Profit after tax divided by average shareholders funds for the period.
Seed equity Initial funding into the fund usually prior to third party commitments.
Turnbull Committee Guidance published by the FRC setting out best practice on internal control guidance forUK listed companies.
UK Corporate Governance The Code Sets out standards of good practice in relation to board leadership and Code effectiveness, remuneration, accountability and relations with shareholders.
