Annual Report 2013: Consolidated financial statements Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Directors responsibility statement financial statements in accordance with applicable law and The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: regulations.
The financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs, give Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors are required to profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with the consolidation taken as a whole: and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also 2.
The management report, which is incorporated into the Directors chosen to prepare the parent Company financial statements under report, includes a fair review of the development and performance IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Under Company law, the Directors must of the business and the position of the Company and the not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these that they face.
financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires By order of the Board that Directors: Jeremy Darroch Andrew Griffith properly select and apply accounting policies: Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that 25 July 2013 25 July 2013 provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
60 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
