Annual Report 2013: Glossary of terms Glossary of terms Useful Definitions Description 21st Century Fox UK Following the split of the News Corporation companies on 28 June 2013, News UK Nominees Limited has been Nominees Ltd renamed 21st Century Fox UK Nominees Limited ADSL2 The type of broadband supplied over Skys own data network offering end-users increased speeds compared to the original ADSL technology ADSL2 typically offers download speeds of up to 15 mbps Bonus channel A channel provided to a TV customer in addition to one or more subscription channels, but at no incremental cost to the TV customer BSkyB or the British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Company Churn The number of total customers over a given period that terminate their subscription in its entirety, net of former customers who reinstated their subscription in that period where such reinstatement is within a 12-month period of the termination of their original subscription, expressed as an annualised percentage of total average customers for the period CO e Carbon dioxide equivalent.
This expresses the global warming potential of different greenhouse gases for example 2 methane, nitrous oxide in terms of the equivalent amount of carbon dioxide, measured in tonnes DSL Digital Subscriber Line DTH Direct-to-Home: the transmission of satellite services and functionality with reception through a minidish.
DTH customer means a subscriber to one or more of our retailed packages of television channels made available via DTH DTT Digital Terrestrial Television: digital signals delivered to homes through a conventional aerial, converted through a set-top box or integrated digital television set EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation is calculated as operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets EPG Electronic Programme Guide ESOP Employee Share Ownership Plan ESPN Entertainment and Sports Programming Network broadcasting the ESPN, ESPN Classic, ESPN America and ESPN HD Channels Fiscal year or fiscal Refers to the twelve months ended on the Sunday nearest to 30 June of the given year Freeview The free-to-air DTT offering available in the UK Freesat The free-to-air DTH joint venture between the BBC and ITV GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles The Group BSkyB and its subsidiary undertakings HD High Definition television HMRC Her Majestys Revenue and Customs IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards IP Internet Protocol: a mechanism by which data packets may be routed between computers on a network IPTV Internet Protocol Television LLU Local Loop Unbundling: a process by which BTs exchange lines are physically disconnected from BTs network and connected to other operators networks.
This enables operators other than BT to use the BT local loop to provide services to customers Minidish Satellite dish required to receive digital satellite television MMDS Multipoint Microwave Distribution Service MPF Metallic Path Facilities which occur where a single communications provider uses the local loop to provide both broadband and voice services over its network Multiroom Installation of an additional set-top box in the household of an existing DTH customer NOW TV The Groups internet streaming service available to anyone in the UK with an internet connection regardless of ISP.
This service is currently available on PC, Mac, the XBox 360, PlayStation 3, YouView and Roku set-top boxes, and selected Android devices NVN New Voice Network Ofcom UK Office of Communications On Demand Skys On Demand service offering a selection of content from across the Sky platform available for customers to watch whenever they want.
The full On Demand service is available to customers that have an active broadband connection.
118 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Annual Report 2013: Glossary of terms Useful Definitions Description PL Premier League Premium Channels The Sky Premium Channels and the Premium Sky Distributed Channels Premium Sky Distributed MUTV, Chelsea TV and MGM HD Channels PVR Personal Video Recorder: satellite decoder which utilises a built-in hard disk drive to enable viewers to record without videotapes, pause live television and record one programme while watching another RCF Revolving Credit Facility Set-top box Digital satellite equipment, responsible for receiving, converting and sending the picture and sound of a broadcast to the associated television set Sky British Sky Broadcasting Group plc and its subsidiary undertakings Sky Skys fully-integrated PVR and satellite decoder Sky HD High Definition box with PVR functionality Sky Basic Channels Sky 1, Sky 2, Pick TV, Challenge, Sky News, Sky Sports News, Sky Arts 1 and Sky Arts 2, Sky Poker.
com, Sky Living, Sky Living It and Sky Atlantic and their multiplex versions and their simulcast HD versions Sky Bet Skys betting services, provided through set-top boxes, the internet and via phone Sky Broadband Home broadband service previously provided exclusively for Sky digital customers but now extended to customers who do not take a television service from Sky Sky Box Office Our pay-per-view service offering movies, sporting events and concerts generally offered at scheduled times on our 36 dedicated linear channels Sky Channels Television channels wholly-owned by the Group, being the Sky Basic Channels and Sky Premium Channels Sky Distributed Television channels owned and broadcast by third parties, retailed by the Group to TV Customers Channels Sky Go Skys retailed packages of television channels and on demand content made available via a broadband connection, including the version made available to mobile devices via a wireless or 3G connection Sky Go Extra Selected content included within Skys retailed packages of television channels and on demand content made available to download, enabling customers to watch the content when and wherever they want, without the need for a broadband, wireless or 3G 4G connection.
Sky Mobile Skys retailed packages of television channels made available to mobile devices via a wireless or 3G connection and our Sky Mobile TV platform Sky Premium Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2, Sky Sports 3, Sky Sport 4, Sky Sports F1, Sky Movies Premiere, Sky Movies Showcase, Sky Channels Movies Comedy, Sky Movies Family, Sky Movies Action & Adventure, Sky Movies 007, Sky Movies SciFi & Horror, Sky Movies Drama & Romance, Sky Movies Crime & Thriller, Sky Movies Disney and Sky Movies Select and their multiplex versions and their simulcast HD versions and Sky 3D Sky Store Our pay-per-view, on demand movies rental service available via Sky On Demand and Sky Go Sky Talk Home telephony service provided for Sky digital subscribers and now extended to customers who do not take a television service from Sky Sky WiFi Skys seamless wireless internet access provided at over 20,000 The Cloud hotspots in the UK SMPF Shared Metallic Path Facility Standalone home Skys retailed packages of broadband, talk and line rental when taken without a television subscription package communications Transponder Communication devices on satellites which send programming signals to mini dishes TV Customer A paying subscriber to one or more of our TV services, principally DTH and NOW TV Twenty-First Century Following the split of the News Corporation companies on 28 June 2013, News Corporation has been renamed Fox, Inc. Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc.
Viewing share Number of people viewing a channel as a percentage of total viewing audience VM Virgin Media References to US dollars, dollars, US$, $ and are to the currency of the United States US, references to euro and are to the currency of the participating European Union EU countries, and references to pounds sterling, pence, and p are to the currency of the UK.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 119 Annual Report 2013 Further information Accessibility If you would like advice regarding accessibility of this document, please contact the Accessible Customer Service team on 0844 241 0333 or TextPhone on 0844 241 0535.
Customers in ROI should use telephone number 0818 71 98 09 and Textphone number 0818 71 98 49.
The 2013 BSkyB Annual Review and Annual Report are available to view To find out more about how we are building a better and more sustainable or download at sky.
com corporate business for the long term, visit sky.
com biggerpicture and download the Seeing the bigger picture Summary Report 2013.
120 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc This report is printed on Heaven 42 and Revive 100 paper which is FSC Certified.
Designed and produced by Salterbaxter.
pureprint are ISo14001 certified, Carbon Neutral, Alcohol Free, FSC and pEFC chain of custody certified.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Grant Way, Isleworth Middlesex TW7 5QD Telephone 0333 100 0333 Facsimile 0333 100 0444 sky.
com Registered in England No.
02247735 Annual Review 2013 Sky is Britain and Irelands leading home entertainment and communications provider.
Our business was launched in the belief that people wanted a better choice of TV.
Ever since, we have constantly strived to improve that choice and to find new ways to better serve our customers.
Today, we are a valued part of life in over 11 million homes.
As we have grown, we have developed three core capabilities: content, technology and customers.
The success of our business today, and the strong position we hold for the future, comes from the unique way in which we bring these Content strengths together in the products and service we offer.
Customers choose Sky for great We also believe the way we do business is as important television and we always aim to offer them the best viewing as what we do.
Our Believe in better ethos means doing experience.
Increasingly, this means the right thing and taking responsibility for our actions commissioning our own original day to day.
It also means reaching beyond our business programming as well as working to make a positive contribution to a more sustainable with partners to find the very best content from around the world.
We call this seeing the bigger picture and it is fundamental to our success.
The 2013 BSkyB Annual Review and To find out more about how we are building a better Annual Report are available to view and more sustainable business for the long term, or download at sky.
Technology Technology enhances the viewing experience with Sky, giving customers the flexibility to watch TV on their terms.
It also provides us with Customers opportunities to extend our business into new areas.
Everything that we do starts with the customer.
The insight that we gain from our direct relationships with millions of homes helps inform the decisions that we make, from the content we put on screen and the products we design to the delivery of our customer service.
Contents 02 Chairmans statement 28 Financial review 03 How we contribute to Britain and Ireland 31 Our business model 04 Chief Executives statement 32 Our performance 34 Board of Directors 36 Summary Directors report Governance 08 Content 38 Summary report on Directors remuneration 14 Technology 18 Customers 46 Summary financial statement 53 Glossary of terms 22 Bigger picture 54 Independent Auditors statement 26 Our people 55 Shareholder information British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 01 Annual Review 2013 Chairmans statement Nick Ferguson, CBE Chairman Over the past year, there have been a number of changes 2013 has been a year of significant progress for Sky.
Jacques Nasser, Tom Mockridge and Lord Building on our consistent track record of growth, Wilson of Dinton all stepped down in the course of the year.
On behalf of the entire Board, I would like to thank the Company continued to deliver a strong all of them for the considerable contribution they have performance, both operationally and financially.
made to Sky over many years.
They have been replaced by Dave Lewis, President, Personal The fact that Sky has continued to outperform over a period Care for Unilever, who joined the Board in November: Chase when household budgets have been under sustained pressure Carey, President and Chief Operating Officer of 21st Century is testament to the robustness of our customer-focused Fox who joined the Board in January: and Andy Sukawaty, strategy and the outstanding way in which management has the Executive Chairman of Inmarsat, who joined us in June.
While the economic climate I am also delighted that Adine Grate, an experienced finance remains uncertain, the Board is confident that the Company and investment professional, joined the Board on 17 July.
is well placed with a clear plan to deliver future growth and value creation for shareholders.
After a period of change, I am confident that the Board reflects the right blend of skills and experience to guide the Company As Sky has become more successful as a business, its impact in the best interests of shareholders.
on our industry and the wider UK economy has grown.
For example, we are the biggest commercial supporter of Finally, in light of the Companys strong performance, the the UK creative industries, with a commitment to grow our Board proposes an 18% increase in the full-year dividend annual spend on UK production to 600 million by 2014. to 30.0 pence, the ninth consecutive year of growth.
We also Sky also makes a significant and growing contribution to intend to seek shareholder approval for a further 500 million the wider UK economy, contributing over 5.9 billion to of share repurchases.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank shareholders Alongside this, Skys position as a leading broadcaster in for their continued support and all of our 24,000 colleagues millions of homes allows us to reach beyond our business to at Sky for their commitment and their invaluable contribution inspire people to make a positive difference.
A good example to another excellent year for the business.
is Sky Sports Living for Sport, our schools initiative that uses sports stars and skills to boost confidence and improve life skills in young people.
In its tenth year, the initiative reaches one third of all secondary schools in Britain and has just launched in Ireland.
We are proud of the work that we do in this area and are committed to doing more in the future.
02 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc How we contribute to Britain and Ireland Sky has grown rapidly since its launch in 1989.
As our business has grown, so too has the economic and social contribution that we make to Britain and Ireland.
This year, we again commissioned research from the independent In addition, our initiatives like Sky Sports Living for Sport, Sky Skills Studios consultants, Oxford Economics, to measure the scale of Skys impact and our partnership with British Cycling all have a very positive impact on the UK economy.
This shows that Sky makes a significant contribution, on the wider communities in which we operate.
And, at a time when the economic recovery Taken together, this demonstrates the contribution that a successful remains uncertain, this contribution is increasing.
and growing British company like Sky can make.
And we have an appetite Sky is also making a growing social contribution.
We provide home to do even more in the future.
entertainment and communications services that enrich peoples lives and connect them with each other and to the wider world.
24,000 Sky employees 1 in 3 UK secondary schools now taking part in Sky Sports Living for Sport 50,000 Visitors to Sky Arts Ignition: Doug Aitken The Source, our collaboration with Tate Liverpool 2.7bn Total annual tax contribution 121,000 Number of jobs in the UK 800 that depend on Sky New jobs created in Ireland in the last year 9,500 Students that have taken part in the Sky Skills Studios experience since launch 5.9bn Skys contribution to UK GDP 1m More people cycling regularly as a result of our partnership with British Cycling British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 03 Annual Review 2013 Chief Executives statement In a fast-changing and increasingly complex environment, we believe it is the combination of these three strengths that gives us our edge.
And our continued focus and investment in them provides us with a durable source of value and competitive advantage.
What weve delivered Looking back on the last year, our results show that our approach is delivering for customers and for shareholders.
In what has remained a challenging consumer environment, we sold more products to more customers and grew the amount they spend with us.
Over the year, we added 3.3 million new subscription products, taking our total base of paid-for products past the 30-million mark for the first time to 31.6 million.
This is more than double the level of five years ago.
That growth came from across our product set.
In home communications, for example, Sky this year became the Jeremy Darroch UKs second-largest broadband provider, with more than Chief Executive 4.9 million customers.
This was a result of strong organic growth combined with the acquisition of O2s consumer Our aim is to build a business that is durable for the broadband and fixed-line telephony business.
long term: one which creates value for shareholders Overall, customers now take an average of 2.8 products from and also acts responsibly in the interests of the wider us, with more than one in three now taking all three of TV, broadband and telephony.
This helped us to grow ARPU communities in which we operate.
We believe that to a record level of 577, an increase of 29 on a year ago.
those businesses that achieve sustainable success At the same time, we continued to add new customers.
have an appetite for change and a commitment to We closed the year with 11.2 million customers, up 547,000 constant renewal in all that they do.
on last year, making Sky the choice of around 40% of households across Britain and Ireland.
At Sky, our success is rooted in three core strengths: content, Building on our strengths technology and customers.
We have built these capabilities We know that to keep attracting new customers and to over many years and we believe that the unique way in which add even more value to our existing customers we need we have brought them together has been fundamental to continually to look for new ways to improve what we offer them.
While other companies may be strong in one of these areas or seek to extend into another, Sky uses its This year, we significantly improved our content offering, understanding of customers to provide great content and securing long-term agreements on key rights, bringing innovative technology in a way that competitors are unable outstanding new talent to Sky and attracting record audiences to match.
In sport, we reinforced our leadership with our strongest year yet.
Europes victory in For us, everything starts with the customer.
We have established the Ryder Cup, Andy Murrays first Grand Slam at the US Open direct, long-term relationships with over 11 million homes and the British and Irish Lions tour of Australia all provided across Britain and Ireland.
These relationships give us a deep momentous sporting occasions.
With back-to-back Ashes understanding of what our customers want and dont want series, live and exclusive Formula 1 racing and the biggest-ever and enable us to stay focused on providing the services that season of Premier League football all to come, next year could best meet their needs.
In movies, we renewed our relationship with four Because we understand our customers, we know that the of the six major studios in the course of the year, strengthening main reason they join Sky, and then stay with us, is for great our portfolio and developing our offering to give customers TV.
Our job is to ensure that we find and produce the very more of the top movies to watch in more ways than ever before.
best content to keep offering them a better choice of the We have continued to bring our customers the best content television they love.
from around the world whilst increasing the amount that And it is the strength and scale of our customer relationships we spend on original production.
We are on track to reach that enable us to develop innovative technology that is simple our target of an annual spend of 600 million on British and easy to use.
Our products have transformed the viewing programming across our channels by the end of 2014. experience for our customers by giving them greater choice Our strategy to increase investment in this area enabled us and flexibility in the way they access and enjoy our content.
to bring more great shows to customers, including the multi 04 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Excellent financial performance Our strong operational performance, combined with a Products Revenue EPS continued focus on cost control and efficiency, has translated into excellent financial performance and increased returns to shareholders.
Total revenue increased by 7%, adjusted 31.6m 7.2bn 60.0p operating profit was up by 9% to 1,330 million, while adjusted basic earnings per share were 60.0 pence, an increase of 18% 3.3m 7% 18% on last year and almost two and a half times the level of five years ago.
In light of this, the Board has proposed a dividend of 30.0 pence, Year to 30 June 2013.
which represents an increase of 18% year on year and the ninth consecutive year of growth.
Our programme to return 500 million to shareholders through a share buy-back also award-winning Hunderby written by Julia Davis, Chris ODowds continues.
In addition, we intend to seek shareholder approval  Moone Boy and the third series of the at the Companys AGM in November for a further 500 million critically-acclaimed Mad Dogs.
Satisfaction also reached new of share repurchases.
As with previous programmes, highs with Sky 1, Sky Living and Sky Atlantic all named amongst 21st Century Fox formerly known as News Corporation has customers top five must-have pay TV channels.
agreed to participate in the buy-back, with the effect that there will be no change in its economic or voting interests We strengthened our leadership in customer technology by in the Company as a result of the share buy-back programme.
driving rapid take-up and usage of new connected TV services over the year.
The growth in the number of connected boxes Skys financial performance demonstrates the way in which to reach 25% of customers, combined with the launch of our successful transition to more broadly-based growth has the UKs most comprehensive catch up TV service, drove a created a bigger, more profitable business and increased fivefold increase in the number of average weekly On Demand returns to shareholders.
Having more ways to grow has also downloads.
At the same time, Sky Go, our mobile video service, served us well at a time when household budgets have been had 3.3 million quarterly unique users by the end of the year.
We will continue to focus on growing our overall product sales as the best way to deliver sustainable value to In addition, we gave people a new way to access our content shareholders.
We see considerable headroom for growth and with the launch of NOW TV, our internet TV service.
Having believe that our unique combination of strengths makes us started with Sky Movies, we added Sky Sports to the service best-placed to deliver the TV and communications services later in the year offering customers access to all six Sky Sports that customers want.
channels through a new 24-hour day pass.
This is the first time we have made Sky Sports available outside a monthly Seeing the bigger picture subscription and it represents an exciting, new opportunity At Sky, we recognise that creating a durable business also for us to grow.
means looking beyond our immediate commercial priorities to consider the impact that we have on the wider communities Over the past year, we also continued to offer great quality and value home communications products.
In January, we launched in which we operate.
We call this seeing the bigger picture.
the Sky Switch Squad, a dedicated team of customer service Sky makes a significant and growing economic and social advisors to make switching to Sky Broadband and Sky Talk contribution to Britain and Ireland.
We provide choice for easier.
We also continued to build Britains leading public customers in entertainment and communications, were the WiFi network, now with over 20,000 hotspots and growing.
biggest commercial supporter of the UK creative industries In addition, we took a significant step to extend our footprint and were a long-term supporter of British sport.
And the by launching home communications in Ireland.
more successful we are, the more we contribute to Britain and Ireland as a whole.
Exceptional customer service remains integral to what we do.
In January, we opened a new customer contact centre in Dublin We believe that being successful commercially goes hand to provide dedicated support for our Irish customers, creating in hand with acting responsibly so we think carefully about 800 new jobs.
We also created 550 new jobs over the course how we go about doing business day to day.
One area where of the year across our UK retail team and at our Newcastle we have made significant progress this year is online safety, customer contact centre.
And in a further step in our drive to where we offer tools to help parents protect their children improve the effectiveness of our home service operation, we at home and on the move.
are bringing 700 engineers in-house at the end of the summer.
The quality of our customer service delivery was again recognised in Ofcoms customer satisfaction survey.
This ranked Sky first for customer service in TV, fixed broadband and landline.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 05 Annual Review 2013 Chief Executives statement continued As a leading broadcaster, we also know that we have an a unique learning experience that takes young people behind opportunity to make a wider impact, engaging directly the scenes at Sky and gives them the chance to work with with our customers to inspire them to make a difference.
the latest technology to make their own news reports on Over the last year, we reached a number of significant subjects they are studying at school.
By the end of June, milestones.
In sport, a third of all secondary schools are now over 9,500 young people had already taken part in the taking part in Sky Sports Living for Sport, our programme that Sky Skills Studios experience.
uses the power of sport to improve life skills in young people.
We are committed to continuing to do more in all of these areas, In addition, over a million more people are now cycling regularly which is why we are particularly delighted that David Beckham as a result of our partnership with British Cycling.
We hope has joined us as a Sky ambassador to help us get even more that Chris Froomes success in the Tour fide France in July 2013 people involved in sport.
will inspire even more people to get on their bikes.
Of course, activities like these are the right thing for a business In the arts, we have worked with some of the UKs leading arts like Sky to do.
But acting responsibly in the interests of all of our organisations to bring innovative new art works to the public.
stakeholders also gives people more reasons to feel positively Our award-winning collaboration with Tate Liverpool was about Sky, which is an important part of how we continue to visited by almost 50,000 people this year.
At our broadcasting be successful and grow.
facility in West London, we also opened Sky Skills Studios, Highlights Over of the year Over the last year, we have strengthened 700,000 our content offering, extended our watch the Ryder Cup unfold via Sky Go leadership in consumer technology and continued to improve the quality of service we offer to customers.
We have also made a growing contribution to life in Britain and Ireland.
Here are some of the highlights Sky Skills Studios open 1m Sky and British Cycling reach their target of getting 1 million more Our internet TV service, people cycling regularly NOW TV, launches Jul 12 Aug 12 Sep 12 Oct 12 Nov 12 Dec 12 06 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc As always, we couldnt have achieved any of this without our In August 2013, we were shocked by the news that Mick Deane, people.
They are vital to our success and every one of our a Sky News Cameraman, was shot and killed in Egypt covering 24,000 colleagues plays their part.
We work hard to attract the unrest in Cairo.
Mick had worked for Sky for the last 15 years the very best people to Sky and to create a culture that in a distinguished career spanning four decades.
He was a encourages them to do their best work and fulfil their potential.
brilliant cameramen and journalist and an inspiring mentor to Whether by improving the training that we provide or promoting many at Sky.
His death is an untimely reminder of the bravery internal moves to broaden individuals knowledge of the business, and commitment that our colleagues in Sky News and other ensuring that we continue to develop our people effectively news organisations demonstrate each and every day.
I would like to thank the whole team for their hard work and This year, the Sky community was devastated by the tragic enthusiasm over the last year.
With their continued drive and loss of Nick Milligan, Managing Director of Sky Media, and determination, we can continue to deliver for our customers, his daughter Emily.
Nick was a widely respected member our communities and our shareholders, building a bigger and of our team and his legacy will endure for many years.
better business for the years to come.
More importantly, he was a great friend and a devoted family man who will be sorely missed by all who had the This paragraph was included after the audited accounts were approved privilege to know him.
Sky and Disney launch a ground-breaking new channel, Sky Movies Disney Sky becomes the UKs secondbiggest broadband provider 199m On Demand downloads in the year 1,500 Game of Thrones, The number of schools taking Alan Partridge and part in Sky Sports Living for Sport Girls win at the BAFTA reaches 1,500 and David Beckham Television Awards joins Sky as an ambassador Jan 13 Feb 13 Mar 13 Apr 13 May 13 Jun 13 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 07 Annual Review 2013 Content More than anything else, customers choose Sky for a better choice of TV.
Our job is to bring together the very best content from Britain and around the world and to keep offering customers a better, richer TV viewing experience.
In the last year, we have invested Weve also continued to develop 2.5 billion on screen more the second-screen experiences than any other UK broadcaster.
that we offer Sky Sports customers As well as building our traditional as part of our Sky Sports for strengths of sport, movies and iPad app.
All this helps viewers 24-hour news, we have developed to get even more value from a valuable fourth leg to our their subscription.
content offering in entertainment Over the year, we took further programming.
This is another area steps to secure the breadth of where we believe we can bring our offering, completing a total of customers content that feels fresh 23 rights agreements in 12 months.
and different and one where we These new deals include coverage are increasingly focused on our own of Home Nations and Republic of UK commissions and productions.
Ireland qualification matches from In sport, we have an unrivalled UEFA EURO 2016 and the 2018 FIFA breadth and depth of live action.
World Cup, European Tour and With six channels, broadcasting in Ryder Cup golf, and cricket from HD in the home and on the move South Africa, Australia, India, via mobile and tablet devices, we New Zealand and the West Indies.
offer something for every sports With more than 90% of our sports fan.
As well as outstanding live rights now secured for the next coverage, this also includes Sky three years, our customers can Sports News, which provides all be confident that Sky Sports the latest news, views and analysis, will continue to offer them the and a wealth of dedicated support best line-up of sporting action.
programming including Soccer AM, Soccer Saturday and the Rugby Club.
Box Sets on demand basically means bring on the Game of Thrones marathon!
Hayden, a Sky customer 08 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 2.3m 1m Views of Game of Thrones On Demand downloads of Season 3 on Sky Go Game of Thrones Season 3 Taking the Throne The epic fantasy series, Game of Thrones, typifies our commitment to bringing customers the best TV from around the world.
Thanks to our partnership with HBO, Sky customers enjoyed new episodes of the dramatic third season less than 24 hours after they were broadcast in the US and their response has been phenomenal.
Game of Thrones this year picked up the BAFTA Radio Times Audience Award, the only category voted for by the public.
The success of Game of Thrones illustrates the growing variety of ways in which our customers now choose to watch.
More than 1.6 million Sky customers watched the opening episode of Game of Thrones Season 3.
Of these, around half a million saw it live on Sky Atlantic, a further 750,000 recorded it on their Sky HD box to watch later, 130,000 downloaded the show through On Demand and another 230,000 saw it via Sky Go.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 09 Annual Review 2013 Content Sky Movies aims to be the only customers can choose the movie movie service film fans will need, they want to watch through our with the best choice of films, On Demand service.
This has available on the widest variety expanded its selection from 600 of devices.
We made more good films at the start of the year to progress in the last 12 months, more than 800 and is still growing.
renewing long-term agreements In addition, we gave customers with four of the big six studios, greater flexibility by launching including NBCUniversal and Sky Movies on NOW TV over a Warner Bros. wide variety of devices, including the PS3 and the Roku box.
This means we will continue to offer customers the very best movies Elsewhere, Sky News once again over a year before they appear earned its reputation for combining on any other subscription service.
speed of coverage on breaking As well as our linear channels, major news with insight and analysis on the latest stories.
Our best year of sport yet The variety and excitement of our coverage during the last year demonstrates that there has never been a better time to be a Sky Sports subscriber.
Whether it was Andy Murrays first Grand Slam win at the US Open, Europes thrilling comeback in the Ryder Cup or the British and Irish Lions tour of Australia, 2012 13 was a year to remember for sports fans.
But next year promises to be even better thanks to an unrivalled line-up of sporting events.
Highlights include back-to-back Ashes series, every race live in the Formula 1 season, the Heineken Cup and, of course, our biggest-ever Premier League season with 116 live games in total.
In the early part of the season, well have every match between last seasons top four, as well as every club at least twice by December.
On top of this, Sky has the UEFA Champions League, Football League and La Liga, reinforcing Sky Sports place as the home of live sporting action for all fans, across Britain and Ireland.
10 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc I am thrilled to get the opportunity to work on such rich source material with such fantastically talented A new home people whose work I greatly respect, and to continue the relationship for magical movies with Sky who have taken such good care of Mad Men since acquiring it.
This year saw the launch of a ground-breaking new channel, Jon Hamm Sky Movies Disney.
It became the home of new and classic Disney and DisneyPixar movies in Britain and Ireland and is the first time that Disney has been involved in a co-branded movie channel anywhere in the world.
Showing recent hits like Brave and Wreck-It Ralph in their first pay TV window, alongside favourites such as Monsters, Inc. Cars and Pinocchio, Sky Movies Disney quickly became a hit with customers.
Over the launch weekend at Easter, Disney titles accounted for more than 40% of the total number of Sky Movies downloads.
Sky Movies Disney was just one example of how we package great movies in a new way to engage customers and add value to their subscription.
To coincide with the theatrical release of Skyfall, we made the entire James Bond collection available live and on demand with Sky Movies 007.
More than 5 million viewers tuned in over the initial one-month run in October, adding even more value to the Sky Movies subscription.
What the doctor ordered A comedy drama based on the memoirs of a doctor working in a remote village at the dawn of the Russian Revolution might not be the obvious home for Jon Hamm and Daniel Radcliffe.
But the actors share a passion for the works of Russian author Mikhail Bulgakov and Sky Arts offered them the chance to bring his short stories to life.
The resulting four-part series, A Young Doctors Notebook, attracted 2.7 million viewers in a record for the channel.
Off the back of this success, weve announced that were going to be making a second series, to be called A Young Doctors Notebook & Other Stories.
In all, Sky Arts now reaches more than 6 million viewers a month.
Another highlight this year was the new series of the exclusive comedy and drama strand, Playhouse Presents, involving some of the UKs greatest writing and directing talent.
Golden-Globe winning actor Idris Elba made his directorial debut with Pavement Psychologist, while Kylie Minogue appeared in her first project for Sky, a dark comedy drama called Hey Diddly Dee.
From original British drama to the stunning opera productions of The Met or the passion of theatre, Sky Arts 1 and 2 are making more art accessible to more people, in all its guises.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 11 Annual Review 2013 Content At home, Sky News coverage Over the year, we built on our ranged from the shocking attack comedy strand through returning on soldier Lee Rigby in Woolwich, shows like Stella, written by and to major public events such as starring Ruth Jones, and new the funeral of Baroness Thatcher.
shows like Julia Davis Hunderby Getting Abroad, we were on the ground and Chris ODowds Moone Boy.
everywhere from the re-election of We also announced a major new President Obama to the unfolding commitment to British drama.
And throughout, the This will involve a range of behind the Sky News coverage was available new commissions across our across all platforms, including the entertainment channels and Sky News app which has registered bring more world-class talent more than 8 million downloads to Sky.
headlines to date on a range of devices.
In addition, we maintained our In entertainment, we continued position as the home of the best to increase our investment in of the US with a number of our key UK commissioning and production, acquisitions performing particularly working with more of the countrys strongly in the year.
For example, leading writers, producers and Arrow on Sky 1 became the most actors to bring great new ideas successful US drama in pay TV to screen.
We remain on track history with an average of 1.5 million to meet our commitment to viewers per episode.
Overall, spend 600 million a year on the focus that we have put into original British programmes building out our entertainment across our channels by 2014. programming is delivering greater value to our customers with Sky Living, Sky Atlantic and Sky 1 all now in the top five must-have pay channels for customers.
With so much focus on the economy, Budget Day 2013 was Great British drama always going to be a major news story.
Once again, Sky News Following the success of our new British comedy strand last year, we are now had all the angles covered.
making a big push into British drama.
A big news event like this plays to Sky News strengths.
As well Among the new commissions is Sky 1s The Smoke, which will follow the adrenalineas bringing customers full live coverage, our team of experts fuelled lives of the crew of a London fire station.
Dracula is a new ten-part series provided in-depth previews of what to look out for, as well that will be shown on Sky Living starring Golden-Globe winner Jonathan Rhys as analysis following the Chancellors speech.
There were Meyers being produced in partnership with NBCUniversal.
Were also working live outside broadcasts to gauge responses in the City and with Canal on The Tunnel, a thrilling crime drama in both French and English.
And our multi-platform approach allowed Meanwhile, Mamma Mia star Dominic Cooper takes the lead role in Fleming, a fourviewers to watch on the move or to get even more detail on part drama about the life of the celebrated James Bond creator, Ian Fleming.
the stories they were most interested in.
12 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 107m 500 Homes reached by Sky News Staff working for Sky News across 118 countries across the world Getting behind the headlines British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 13 Annual Review 2013 Technology Our technology brings great content to life and makes it easier for customers to watch it wherever and whenever they want.
From the improved picture quality of High Definition to the convenience and flexibility of Sky Go, were constantly looking for new ways to harness the latest technology to give customers greater value from their subscription.
Having given customers We are also using technology to unprecedented control through help us to extend our reach into Sky and enhanced picture quality new segments of the market.
with High Definition, we are now At the start of the year, we leading the way in on demand launched NOW TV, our internet and mobile video services.
Taking advantage of 3.3 million quarterly unique users, the rapid growth in broadbandSky Go is the worlds leading connected devices, NOW TV multi-platform mobile TV service.
provides an exciting new way for Meanwhile, Sky On Demand now millions of people to access and offers Sky customers the most enjoy Skys content.
The service complete catch up TV service in launched across a wide range of Britain along with an expanding connected devices, including PC, choice of TV Box Sets and movies Mac and selected Android devices, to download and rent.
The response offering unlimited access to Sky from customers has been very Movies through a monthly pass positive, with average weekly with no ongoing commitment.
downloads increasing fivefold Weve continued to develop NOW TV over the year.
over the year, rolling it out to more devices and adding new content with the launch of Sky Sports on NOW TV in the spring.
I think this is a wonderful technology.
Its great for working away from home and has given me extra value.
Gina, Sky Go customer 14 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 19% 16 Increase in quarterly New live channels added unique users of Sky Go to Sky Go in the year Go!
We have seen rapid growth in take-up and usage of our mobile TV service Sky Go with more than 600 million content views through the service over the year, an increase of 40% on the previous year.
Over 700,000 people followed the excitement of the Ryder Cup in September via Sky Go, while a record 319,000 watched Manchester United take on Real Madrid in the UEFA Champions League in March.
Movies have proved a big hit too.
The launch of Sky Movies Disney at Easter, with over 100 movies available to watch on demand, attracted almost 700,000 views on Sky Go in a single weekend.
As the service has grown in popularity, more people have also used it to access entertainment programming.
The third series of Sky 1s An Idiot Abroad attracted more than 850,000 on demand views on Sky Go.
Were constantly adding more content to Sky Go weve added another 16 live streaming channels in the year.
Were also extending it to more devices.
And this year we launched a new subscription service, Sky Go Extra, that lets customers download a selection of the latest movies and entertainment shows to watch offline over a maximum of four devices for just 5 a month.
This got off to a great start, attracting a total of 166,000 paying customers within the first five months of launch.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 15 Annual Review 2013 Technology More customers are also choosing From a standing start in 2006, Catch Up TV to switch to Sky for home Sky became the UKs second-biggest communications as they respond to broadband provider this year with The UKs most comprehensive Catch the outstanding quality and value close to 5 million customers following Up TV service features programmes that we offer.
Sky provides truly the acquisition of O2s consumer from the BBC, ITV, Channel 4 and unlimited broadband as standard broadband and fixed-line telephony Channel 5, as well as Sky channels with no usage caps, even at peak business.
We also reached another and partner channels such as times.
We also help customers significant milestone by launching Nickelodeon and Nat Geo.
get online when they are out and our home communications products about with free WiFi on the move at in Ireland.
TV Box Sets One-third of all customers now All this has helped us maintain our take all three of their TV, position as the fastest-growing Customers who prefer to broadband and telephony from home communications provider.
That means theres plenty can download a whole series more growth still to come.
at a time through our TV Box Sets, including such shows as Game of Thrones, The Sopranos and Stella.
In demand In the last year, Sky customers watched more TV on demand than ever before.
By the end of the year, average weekly downloads had increased to 6.2 million with the total number of downloads for the year hitting 199 million, compared to 41 million last year.
This is partly due to the increase in the number of people who have connected their Sky HD boxes to broadband 2.7 million customers at the end of the year, more than 25% of all Sky TV homes.
Alongside the growth in connected boxes, we are constantly expanding the line-up of on demand programming.
We now offer the most complete catch up TV service in the UK, full series Box Sets, more than 800 subscription movies from Sky Movies and more than 1,000 movies to rent through Sky Store.
Over the last year, there were over 12.2 million movie rentals through Sky Store and Sky Box Office up 17% on the previous year.
16 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Movies Our best-ever Sky Movies customers can download hundreds of movies to watch on demand wireless router whenever they want.
Sky Broadband got even better this year with the launch of the Sky Hub, our best-ever wireless router.
Designed and built by Skys in-house Sky Store engineering team, the Sky Hub uses Smart Signal technology to select the optimum The latest DVD movie releases are available wireless channel, giving the best and most reliable connection.
It also offers improved through our movie rental service, Sky wireless range meaning customers can get online in parts of their home they couldnt Store, in a few clicks of the remote control.
And it uses intelligent power consumption to save energy when not in use.
With its additional capabilities to diagnose and fix faults remotely, the Sky Hub is just one of the steps that we have taken in the year to improve the reliability of our customer technology.
Play as you go Sky Sports has always offered customers a better choice of high-quality live sport.
Now, theres a brand new way to watch it.
After launching our internet TV service NOW TV at the start of the year with Sky Movies, we expanded the offering in the spring with the addition of Sky Sports.
For just 9.99, customers can enjoy instant, commitment-free access to all six Sky Sports channels for 24 hours.
So whether its a Premier League match, a Grand Prix or a Test Match, millions more can now enjoy the great action and analysis that Sky Sports offers.
We believe this is an exciting new way for us to reach sports fans who dont yet take pay TV.
Our next step will be to add on our entertainment offering so that even more people can enjoy channels such as Sky 1 and Sky Living.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 17 Annual Review 2013 Customers At Sky, we never forget that customers always have a choice.
We know that to be successful, we need to offer the very best choice of TV and products that help them to get the most from their subscription, all supported by exceptional customer service.
The direct relationships that we service team, 800 of whom support have with millions of households our first dedicated customer up and down the country are service centre in Dublin which fundamental to our business.
This is part of They give us a deep understanding an ongoing programme to bring of what our customers want and, more of our customer service importantly, what they dont want.
teams in-house, giving us greater This insight informs the decisions control over the service we deliver.
that we take as a business, We are taking another big step ensuring that we focus on those in the coming months when we areas where customers see the bring a further 700 engineer jobs greatest value.
This will help us in the work that we are doing to better I especially love going Over the past year, weve continued coordinate our customer call centre straight through to a voice, to focus on making improvements teams with our engineers out in no menus, what a relief.
to the quality of the service that the field something that we are Valerie, Sky One Service customer customers receive.
More than 1,150 calling our One Service model.
people have joined our customer 18 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 1,150 2 seconds People joined our The average time to answer a customer customer service team call in our One Service pilot One-stop shop Our One Service model is about joining up every element of the customer service experience so that the customer enjoys one simple, seamless journey from start to finish.
One Service means that if a customer calls us with a problem, he or she is put straight through to a customer service expert who is trained and empowered to take responsibility for their case right from the start, through to when the issue has been resolved.
It also means good coordination between the customer call centre staff and the engineers in the field.
If we need to send an engineer out, its at a time that best suits the customer.
Engineers are also trained to demonstrate products and services like On Demand and Sky Go to help the customers get the very best value from their subscription.
Results from the pilot have been excellent.
First-time resolution scores are up 10%, customer satisfaction has reached its highest-ever level and our net promoter score, a key measure of customer advocacy, is three times higher.
Our next step is to roll it out more widely.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 19 Annual Review 2013 Customers Of course, another important The work that we have done to aspect of great service is working improve the quality of service hard to prevent things going wrong that we offer our customers in the first place.
Our Sky HD box, was recognised by Ofcom in its our most reliable box yet, is now customer satisfaction survey in more than 70% of homes.
This published this year, which ranked has helped us to drive down the Sky top for customer service in number of annual service visits all three of TV, fixed broadband to its lowest level for nine years, and landline.
We also received despite the significant growth recognition from the consumer in both customers and products group uSwitch, winning four over that period.
awards including best technical support and most recommended broadband provider.
On top of their game We know that to offer the best service, we need to have the very best people and ensure that they remain on top of their game.
A vital part of how we do this is by ensuring they have the opportunities to improve their skills and expertise.
Across our Customer Service Group as a whole, we delivered more than 600,000 hours of training over the year.
This included multi-skill training for customer service advisors to make sure that they are equipped to handle customer enquiries across the full range of our products.
We also built on the success of our  training course, Aspire, by rolling it out to our customer service advisors as well as our sales advisors.
In addition, we introduced a large-scale training and development programme at our new site in Dublin to support the 800 new customer service advisors that have joined us in the last 12 months.
Were committed to improving the service we offer because we know that better service makes for happier customers.
20 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Making moving easier Moving home can be one of the most stressful experiences in life.
With so much to sort out, we want to do our bit to make things easier.
Thats why weve set up a dedicated new team to take care of the TV and home communications bit of the move.
Our National Home Move Centre in Livingston is staffed by over 450 people whose sole job it is to make the process of moving house as smooth as possible.
Customers planning a move go straight through to one of the team, who then manages the transfer of all their Sky services from start to finish.
All that we require from the customer is that first telephone call, giving us all the necessary information.
We do the rest, giving the customer more time to deal with everything else.
S ky has had a leading approach to accessibility for many years.
Its clear they value their blind and partially-sighted customers.
Lesley-Anne Alexander, CBE, RNIB Royal National Institute of Blind People Inclusive and accessible We are committed to making sure that everyone can enjoy our products and services, including those with disabilities.
Our dedicated Accessible Customer Service team provides expert support to customers with disabilities.
We also offer a range of features to help them get the most out of our products.
We provide over 390,000 hours of subtitling a year and we invest in the British Sign Language Broadcasting Trust, which produces independent content presented in British Sign Language.
For the visually-impaired, we provide audio description on more than a quarter of our programming and have developed the Sky Talker 390,000 device.
Designed in conjunction with the Royal National Hours of subtitling Institute of Blind People, the Sky Talker vocalises channel and programme information, as well as the Sky functions.
This enables our visually-impaired customers to get the most from their Sky service.
Br Bri it ti is sh h S Sk ky y Br Bro oa ad dc ca as st ti in ng g Gr Gro ou up p p pl lc c 21 21 Annual Review 2013 Seeing the bigger picture Our Believe in better ethos means As a result of our success in the At Sky, we know that simply being good for a commitment to constant renewal past year, we contributed almost Sky is not enough.
To achieve sustainable and improvement in everything we 6 billion to GDP, supported do.
And it is through this approach 121,000 jobs and generated more success, we must also be good for our that we build a better business that than 2.7 billion in tax revenues.
customers, our people, our partners and is durable for the long term.
We understand that how we do the communities in which we live and work.
Over the past year, we have made business is as important as what We call this seeing the bigger picture and a significant and growing economic we do.
We are committed to being and social contribution.
The home a responsible business with high it is fundamental to Skys success.
entertainment and communications ethical, environmental and social services we provide enrich peoples standards.
This means being clear lives and connect them with each about the culture and values that other and to the wider world.
We want are also the biggest commercial our values to be reflected by supporter of the creative industries the actions of our people and in the UK.
to be widely recognised outside our business.
We know that future success, not just for Sky, but also for society as a whole, depends on equipping young people with the skills they need for a changing world.
Sky Skills Studios is our dedicated facility offering a free learning experience that takes schools behind the scenes at Sky.
Opened in September 2012, Sky Skills Studios is based in our broadcasting facility in West London.
The experience gives young people aged 8 to 18 the opportunity to work with our state-ofthe-art equipment to research, film and edit their own TV reports on subjects theyve been studying at school.
The aim is that the different and new environment inspires young people to learn more about TV production, as well as helping them develop and build important life skills like creativity, communication and teamwork.
We are on track to meet our target of working with 12,000 young people in the first academic year, with over 9,500 taking part since it opened.
One primary school teacher that visited From the Sky Skills Studios this year said: Sky Skills Studios is a fantastic initiative.
The enthusiasm of the students to use the technology there to make their own classroom TV report helped to spark their learning about environmental issues and to improve their teamwork.
It was the best trip Ive ever been on.
I wanted to get a job at Sky after going there.
to the studio 22 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc S ky understands the critical role that education plays in ensuring safe internet use, and has also made a strong commitment by offering tools that help its customers protect their families both in and out of the home.
Will Gardner, Chief Executive, Childnet Better, more sustainable products An important part of making our products better is making Playing safe them more sustainable.
The addition of features like a power-off mode and auto stand-by mean that our new Sky HD boxes are now 30% TV and the internet offer lots of opportunities for entertainment and learning more energy efficient equivalent to over 90,000 tonnes but we know our customers are also concerned about the risks, so we see of carbon dioxide a year and 20 million worth of savings it as our responsibility to help parents and children use them safely.
for customers on their energy bills.
Were designing energy efficiency into all our products, including our new energyMarket-leading parental control features on the Sky HD box enable customers smart Sky Hub router, which uses less power when its not to set a bespoke watershed, filter age-inappropriate content and restrict access being actively used and returns to full power as soon as to specific channels altogether.
Last year, Sky became the first public WiFi provider to block inappropriate content As well as making better products, weve cut down on by default across 20,000 hotspots.
And earlier this year, we announced new packaging, manuals and cables and made it easier for broadband filtering for all devices within our customers homes which will be customers to return their old equipment to us for recycling ready to implement in autumn 2013.
By pre-ticking the default settings, weve or repair.
Were now reusing or recycling almost all of the made it easier for parents to protect their families.
Because we know that technology doesnt have all the answers, weve also worked with teachers to develop a special module on cyberbullying and social networking to help teach children about safe internet use as part of our Sky Skills Studios experience.
It also means minimising the But we want to go further.
environmental impact of our As an entertainment and products and our operations.
communications company with We are on track to meet a new a presence in more than 11 million target of halving our emissions homes, we believe we have an relative to revenue by 2020 and opportunity to reach beyond to reducing our carbon intensity our business and make a positive by a third from 2008 09 as a impact and a valuable contribution result of long-term investments to a more sustainable society.
We choose to focus our activities on four areas that we are passionate about: sport, arts, skills and the environment.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 23 Annual Review 2013 Seeing the bigger picture These are areas where we believe We never forget that our that Sky can make a difference business is built on long-term and inspire people to take action: relationships and that the trust Arts improving lives through sport: of our customers, viewers, championing creativity and opening employees and partners is vital up the arts: helping young people to us.
We believe that by acting matters to build skills for a changing world: responsibly and consistently with and taking action to protect all of our stakeholders in mind, the environment.
we will create more reasons for people to feel positively towards Sky.
And this will build a better business for the long term.
Starting in June 2013, Sky has worked with the V&A and the author Hari Kunzru to create an immersive new exhibition, Sky Arts Ignition: Memory Palace.
This is the second Sky Arts Ignition project in which we partner with a leading arts organisation, investing up to 200,000 to create new art works which we then bring to life on screen and online.
In September 2012, we launched an award-winning first collaboration with Tate Liverpool to create Sky Arts Ignition: Doug Aitken The Source, which was viewed by over 50,000 people.
As well as investing in the creation of new art works, were also helping to develop new talent.
This year, Tackling we selected another five winners of the Sky Arts Ignition Futures Fund, each of whom receive a bursary of 30,000 and mentoring from senior climate Sky staff and arts industry experts to help develop their commercial skills and knowledge.
change Alongside our two television channels, Sky Arts 1 and Sky Arts 2, showcasing the best of arts and culture, this makes Sky one of the biggest corporate supporters of the arts in Britain and Ireland.
Deforestation is one of the most pressing environmental concerns of our times.
Its also something we know our customers care about.
Thats why we began Sky Rainforest Rescue, our partnership with WWF to help save a billion trees in the Amazon rainforest.
This year, model and environmentalist Lily Cole has helped us to raise awareness in the UK about deforestation.
Lily travelled to the Brazilian Amazon to see our project in action and to create a film capturing her journey, which aired on Sky Arts 1 HD as part of a week of rainforest-related programming.
She also designed a range of jewellery made out of sustainably-sourced rubber from the project area.
Weve made great progress towards our goal to raise another 2 million by 2015, having already raised 2 million in the first phase of the campaign.
With Sky match-funding customer donations pound for pound, it brings the overall amount raised so far to over 6 million.
Altogether, Sky Rainforest Rescue has worked with over 1,200 local families to give them the support they need to make a fair living from the rainforest.
24 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Improving lives through sport Bedford Academys Wayne Instrell was named Sky Sports Living for Sport Student of the Year 2012.
Sky Sports Living for Sport gave Wayne something to focus on when he was having a tough time.
Despite not being able to swim and being frightened of water, Wayne was given the chance to take part in a swimming project.
Through his hard work and dedication, he learnt to swim and built new-found confidence.
This translated to the classroom where he turned things around and is now making great progress.
Wayne is one of the tens of thousands of young people that take part in Sky Sports Living for Sport.
A third of all secondary schools 1,500 in total are now participating in the initiative.
In May, we launched the initiative in Ireland and Irish Olympic Gold Medallist Katie Taylor joined a team of over 70 athlete mentors and ambassadors that also includes David Beckham, Jessica Ennis-Hill and Darren Campbell.
I have seen first-hand how much of an impact Sky Sports Living for Sport is having on young people throughout the UK says Darren.
Its fantastic to hear how students P eople look at my career and attitudes, like Waynes, can be shifted towards both sport find that inspiring.
at Wayne and listen to him talk, thats more inspiring than anything personally Ive been through.
David Beckham, Sky ambassador, speaking on a visit to Bedford Academy British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 25 Annual Review 2013 Our people Our peoples performance is a We believe that a diverse workforce Our people are critical to our success so its key driver of our growth.
As well creates a stronger business and vital that we attract the best to Sky.
We aim as creating career development we work closely with a range of through internal job moves, external partners to support our to create a culture where our people can we provide opportunities for work in diversity.
do their best work and fulfil their potential.
employees to build their experience We also work hard to encourage and skills through a wide range of talented people to join Sky, development and skills training.
particularly as weve grown our This includes our Development employee base by 1,150 over the Studio which is open to all staff past year.
In addition we aim to and provides access to a wide provide opportunities for young range of learning resources and people to experience working at courses.
Last year, this delivered Sky.
More than 500 young people over 104,000 training days and participated in one of our schemes over 160,000 hours of e-learning over the course of the year.
Learning and earning Priscilla Ossai, Apprentice Software Developer E ver since I was young, Ive wanted to work in technology and specifically software engineering.
I always thought Id have to go to university to do it.
But when I heard about the Sky Technology Apprenticeship Programme, I saw a different way for me to realise my dream.
The best thing about the Programme is the combination of valuable work experience with study.
I can learn about all the latest web technologies and work towards a professional qualification, whilst also seeing how theyre applied in real-life products like Sky Go.
Sk y is a really exciting company to work for its also definitely a company with one eye on the future.
26 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc These range from a weeks work & Supply.
In addition, we recruited experience to a years paid around 100 university leavers, and placement.
We are also increasing have improved representation of Giving young the number of apprenticeship women and ethnic minorities thanks opportunities to around 100 across to an on-campus university campaign the business.
This includes brand to promote greater diversity.
people a start new schemes in Marketing, Sky Production Services, Technology, in TV Contact Centres and Home Service Over the last year, Sky has again sponsored 12 young people from minority and disadvantaged backgrounds as part of our partnership with the charity, MAMA Youth Project.
The aim of the scheme is to help increase diversity within the TV production industry.
Each of the participants, who range in age from 16 to 25, start the scheme with 12 weeks of intensive training.
This gives them skills in production research, camera and sound operation and video editing.
This is followed by a paid placement at one of the major independent production companies working on a Sky production.
Sky provides further support to the young people through the provision of mentors from our own production teams and additional training in core employment skills such as: communication skills, computer literacy, CV writing and interview technique.
This year, the project resulted in the production of Whats Up, a youth-culture magazine show broadcast nationwide on our Pick TV channel.
Two-thirds of those who have taken part in the scheme are now in work, with half of these Making moves employed in the media.
In a business like Sky, there are lots of opportunities for our people to develop their careers.
Some choose to specialise but others enjoy gaining new skills and experience.
One such person is Michele Swaine, Business Director, Sky Creative.
I have been at Sky for almost nine years now my first job was in product development, says Michele.
It was very project orientated, working on a whole host of really exciting and important products for Sky, like our new on demand services and launching a new TV guide.
Through talking to a mentor, I realised there was so much more I could do at Sky.
I was fortunate enough to have the opportunity to take a new role leading our retention team, making sure that customers didnt want to leave us.
Most recently, after coming back from maternity leave, Ive moved to our internal advertising agency, Sky Creative again a very different job.
Effectively, Ive had three different careers at Sky.
Who knows where number four will take me?
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 27 Annual Review 2013 Financial review 1 Financial performance Revenue Group revenue increased by 7% to 7,235 million 2012: 6,791 million, with good growth in both retail and wholesale operations and improvement in the more cyclical operations in advertising and Sky Business pubs and clubs.
Retail subscription revenue grew by 6% to 5,951 million 2012: 5,593 million, reflecting continued product and customer growth and the benefit of the price rise which came into effect in September 2012.
Sky Business returned to growth in the second half to achieve revenue growth of 1% for the full year.
We delivered a strong performance in wholesale subscription revenue which increased by 13% to 396 million 2012: 351 million.
Although the volume of wholesale subscribers was flat year on year, we continue to benefit from greater take-up of Sky premium channels on other platforms.
Andrew Griffith Advertising revenue was flat year on year at 440 million 2012: Chief Financial Officer 440 million, despite the impact of the Olympics in our first quarter.
Sky Media gained market share across the year to Sky has once again delivered a very strong performance reach 22.2%, with the majority of this growth underpinned by for the year, with good operating growth translating into increased ratings for our media partner channels, with whom we share revenue upside.
AdSmart, our tailored advertising another record set of financial results.
A 7% increase product, is on track to launch early in 2013 14 with good in revenues, combined with a continued focus on cost interest from potential advertisers.
efficiency, led to an 8% increase in adjusted EBITDA Installation, hardware and service revenue of 87 million and an 18% growth in adjusted basic earnings per share.
was lower year on year 2012: 98 million driven by improved product reliability, an increased number of customer The strength of our financial performance reflects our self-installations, and higher right-first-time engineer visits.
successful transition to more broadly-based growth Other revenue increased by 17% to 361 million 2012: 309 and sustained investment to create a better service million due to continued strong performance from Sky Bet which saw an increase in unique users in the year, and growth and a wider range of products for customers.
in international programme sales due to more original commissions.
Successful transition to more broadly-based growth In all, we added 3.3 million subscription products in the year: Direct costs 2.6 million product sales organically and a further 706,000 Programming costs increased by 8% to 2,486 million 2012: through the acquisition of O2s consumer broadband and 2,298 million in line with our expectations.
Sports accounted fixed-line telephony business O2.
This took the year end for the majority of the absolute increase due to the inclusion total to 31.6 million, more than double the level of five years of Formula 1, Ryder Cup and Lions costs not in the prior year.
Customers now take an average of 2.8 paid-for products Movie costs increased and included investment in expanded from Sky.
rights agreements to support new product offerings such as Sky Go Extra and NOW TV.
Entertainment costs saw the largest We saw good growth across all products.
We added another percentage increase 15% year on year as we continued to 443,000 HD customers and 166,000 Sky Go Extra customers invest in new and exclusive UK-commissioned content across in the five months since launch in January 2013.
communications continued to grow well.
Before accounting for the acquisition of O2, we added 505,000 customers in Our work on network efficiency within our communications broadband, 580,000 in telephony and 648,000 in line rental.
operations resulted in excellent operating leverage in direct The acquisition of O2 added a further 400,000 broadband network costs, up only 6% to 715 million 2012: 676 million subscribers and 153,000 each of telephony and line rental.
despite a 15% increase in organic home communications In all, 35% of our customer base now take all three of TV, product volumes.
telephony and broadband from Sky, up from 32% last year.
1 Unless otherwise stated, all figures and growth rates exclude exceptional items.
Adjusting items are detailed on page 50 of the Summary financial statement.
28 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 1.7bn 1bn EBITDA 13% increase in free cash flow In July 2013, Chris Froome became the second successive Team Sky rider to win the Tour fide France.
As part of our support for the sport at all levels, Team Sky is inspiring a whole new generation of cyclists through its success.
Other operating costs Profits and earnings We continued to focus on costs and once again delivered a EBITDA of 1,692 million was up strongly at 8%.
Depreciation strong performance, with other operating costs reducing as a and amortisation of 362 million increased 5% year on year, percentage of sales by 80 basis points.
Within other operating largely due to new products being depreciated for the first costs, every cost line reduced as a percentage of sales year on time and a higher proportion of intangible capital expenditure year, continuing our approach of seeking efficiency in our cost on assets with shorter economic lives.
Operating profit of base to improve margins and reinvestment where customers 1,330 million was up 9%.
Profit before tax was 1,264 million 2012: 1,148 million, which included the Groups share of joint ventures and associates Marketing costs of 1,116 million 2012: 1,064 million reduced by 30 basis points as a percentage of sales.
Lower cost profits of 37 million 2012: 32 million and a net interest charge of 103 million 2012: 107 million.
Taxation for the route-to-market sales and lower acquisition volumes helped to offset additional advertising spend to support the launch period was 295 million 2012: 273 million.
Our adjusted effective tax rate was 23% 2012: 24%, benefiting from the of NOW TV and a national broadband campaign which included the launch of fibre in the second half of the year.
reduction in the rate of UK corporation tax on 1 April 2012 from 26% to 24%.
Subscriber management and supply chain costs were up 4% at 647 million 2012: 621 million driven largely by higher Profit after tax for the year was 969 million 2012: 875 volume of set-top box sales to Sky Italia and our own higher million, generating earnings per share of 60.0 pence 2012: broadband volumes.
Over the year the weighted average number of shares excluding those held by the Employee Share Ownership Transmission, technology and fixed network costs increased Plan ESOP for the settlement of employee share awards was by a net 2% to 401 million 2012: 395 million due to the 1,614 million 2012: 1,721 million.
The number of shares, excluding increased transmission of additional content from the Formula 1 the ESOP shares, at the end of the year was 1,573 million 2012: channel, Sky Go, NOW TV and On Demand largely offset by 1,658 million.
Administration costs were up 5% at 540 million 2012: 514 million reflecting the biennial phasing of our share incentive plans.
Excluding this, administration expenses would have been flat on last year.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 29 Annual Review 2013 Financial review continued Adjusting items The ex-dividend date will be 13 November 2013 and, subject Reported profit after tax of 979 million 2012: 906 million to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting to includes a net exceptional gain of 10 million.
This comprises be held on 22 November 2013, the final dividend of 19.0 pence of the net impact of two exceptional credits from the positive will be paid on 6 December 2013 to shareholders appearing settlement of former supplier disputes, the benefit of which on the register at the close of business on 15 November 2013. we have passed back to customers via two one-time initiatives.
Finally, we will continue to look to deploy our balance We also incurred a 15 million charge related to the acquisition sheet strength in a disciplined way to enhance returns for of O2s consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony shareholders via acquisitions, should attractive opportunities business, and 33 million from a corporate efficiency present themselves, or share repurchases.
To this end, we programme including the redundancy of approximately intend to seek shareholder approval at the Companys AGM 250 head office employees.
Other adjusting items were a for a further 500 million of share repurchases.
23 million gain relating to mark to market values of derivative financial instruments, a 9 million gain on our sale of our Dividend per share interest in MUTV and a 17 million gain relating to the tax exceptionals and the tax effect on all adjusting items.
30.0p Cash flow and financial position 30.0p 25.4p Adjusted free cash flow was 13% higher at 1,028 million 23.3p 2012: 910 million reflecting strong growth in adjusted 20.0p EBITDA, a positive working capital movement, lower interest and capital expenditure.
10.0p Capital expenditure of 454 million 2012: 457 million was slightly lower than last year.
Phasing of spend throughout 0 the year picked up in the fourth quarter as we started the construction of a new building on our main site and FY11 FY12 FY13 commenced the integration of O2 broadband customers.
Net debt increased to 1,183 million 2012: 876 million primarily as a result of the share buy-back and dividend growth.
Gross debt was 2,593 million, with 1,410 million of cash and equivalents at 30 June 2013.
The Groups liquidity and headroom remain comfortable.
Uses of capital and distributions to shareholders Our policy on use of capital continues to focus on four consistent areas: organic growth, regular dividends, acquisitions and share repurchases.
The investment of around 60 to 70 million in organic growth during 2013 14 is a good example of such an opportunity.
At the same time, we understand the value our shareholders place on a growing regular return and have once again increased our ordinary dividend in line with earnings growth, maintaining a sector-leading payout ratio of 50%.
The Directors proposed final dividend of 19.0 pence per share takes the total dividend payable in respect of the financial year to 30.0 pence per share, an increase of 18% over prior year and almost double the level of six years ago.
We have shown through our past successful investments in both Broadband and HD that our financial flexibility enables us to balance both investment in growth and cash returns to shareholders.
Consequently, looking to the year ahead we anticipate continued growth in the ordinary dividend.
30 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Our business model Sky is Britain and Irelands leading home entertainment and communications provider.
As at 30 June 2013, we had 11.2 million customers taking a total of 31.6 million products.
Our business Our strategy We retail pay TV services to residential customers both in We have a clear and consistent growth the home and on the move.
We connect our customers with strategy: to sell more products and broadband and telephony products, including DSL, fibre and services to our customers: to attract WiFi.
We also retail our TV services to commercial customers and new customers to Sky: and to develop operate adjacent businesses distributing our programmes and our adjacent businesses.
channels, selling advertising on our own and on partner channels, and offering a range of betting and gaming services.
Our approach To achieve our broadly-based growth strategy, we invest in the customer experience while improving the efficiency of our operations.
Through our strong focus on quality, flexibility, value and service we can grow in a variety of ways, create value for shareholders, and make a broader contribution to society.
Invest in standout Add value through Grow in home Scale other Increase operating content innovation communications businesses efficiency We invest in high Through continually We have an We deploy our content We focus on quality, differentiated innovating around our infrastructure which investments to operating efficiency content to give products and services, allows us to provide support growth in our to deliver the best customers a greater we extend our reach into customers with great adjacent wholesale, service, underpin choice of the TV they new markets, distribute value, high quality and advertising, data and investment in future are passionate about.
our content more broadly, reliable communications betting and gaming growth and increase improve the experience services.
profit, cash flow and add more value for and returns.
Develop long-term capability We invest in developing our brand, our people and our infrastructure as key components of long-term success Our people Seeing the bigger picture How we manage risk The Group has a formal The talent, hard work and We are committed to building enthusiasm of our people a better and more sustainable risk management framework embedded are critical to Skys success.
We do this by We want to ensure we growing our economic within the business to support the identification attract the best people and and social contribution: create a culture and an environment where taking responsibility for doing the right thing and effective management of risk across the Group.
they can perform at their best and achieve day to day: and reaching beyond our business their full potential.
to inspire people to take action to make a positive difference.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 31 Annual Review 2013 We have identified a number of key performance indicators that we use to assess the Groups performance against its core strategic priorities.
Operational key performance indicators Products & customers Churn Customers taking each of TV, million % broadband and telephony Total customers Total products % 2013 11.2 31.6 2013 10.8% 2013 35% 2012 10.6 28.4 2012 10.2% 2012 32% 2011 10.3 25.4 2011 10.4% 2011 27% Description Description Description A customer is defined as a subscriber to one of our TV Churn represents the number of total customers The percentage of customers taking one of our TV packages or standalone home communications services.
over a given period who terminated their subscriptions, products and both a Sky Broadband and a Sky Talk Total products is defined as the total of all subscription net of former customers who reinstated their product.
Customers may also opt for our line products taken by our customers and includes TV, HD, subscription within 12 months of terminating their rental product.
Multiroom, Sky Go Extra, Broadband, Telephony and original subscription, expressed as a percentage Analysis Line Rental.
This is an important measure for our business, Analysis Analysis with higher penetration positively impacting ARPU Total customers and products are both key determinants Churn is a good measure of customer satisfaction, and customer loyalty.
At 30 June 2013, 3.9 million of the Groups value.
Our strategy is to continue adding which is a key driver of value for our business.
customers chose each of TV, broadband and telephony, customers and selling more products to our existing Churn for the year 2013 was relatively stable at 10.8%.
In 2013, we added 547,000 new customers and grew the total products taken by 11% to 31.6 million.
Carbon intensity Employee engagement Per m of revenue % We also have over 25 independently Gross CO e emissions t m Target reduction Sky engagement UK National Norm 2 assured key performance indicators 20.7 that we use to measure our 94% 19.1 2013 83% sustainability performance.
com biggerpicture 2012 81% 86% 2011 81% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Description Description Carbon intensity is one of ten new key performance To measure employee engagement we undertake an indicators we use to measure our environmental internal survey of our employees and benchmark their performance see sky.
As part of a broad array of topics gross CO e emissions include emissions from premises surveyed, employees are asked a series of questions 2 and company-owned vehicles Scope 1 and 2. designed to quantify engagement.
Analysis Analysis We independently assure our carbon footprint each Employee engagement is a good indicator of how our year and use the results to drive reductions across the employees feel about the Company.
As well as reaching business.
Our absolute gross CO e emissions were stable a high performance indicator for employee engagement, 2 in 2013 while we grew as a business.
Our carbon intensity we have improved on last year and performed better than fell to 13.8, 33% less than our 2008 09 baseline.
We are an independent external benchmark of other blue-chip on track to meet our new target set in 2012 to halve our companies in each of the last three years.
carbon emissions relative to revenue CO e t m by 2020.
2 32 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Financial key performance indicators ARPU Revenue Adjusted operating profit 1 2 1, 2 m m 2013 577 2013 7,235 2013 1,330 2012 548 2012 6,791 2012 1,223 2011 538 2011 6,597 2011 1,073 Description Description Description Average revenue per user ARPU is calculated by taking Revenue includes revenue from retail subscription, Adjusted operating profit for the Group excludes items the amount spent by the Groups residential customers wholesale subscription revenue, advertising and that may distort comparability.
ex-VAT, divided by the average number of residential installation, hardware and service revenue.
Analysis Adjusted operating profit is a key measure of the Analysis Revenue is a key measure of how the Group is delivering underlying business performance.
It increased by ARPU is impacted by the type of subscription package on its strategy to grow the business.
In 2013, revenue grew 9% in 2013. taken by a customer, as well as the number of products.
by 7% with good growth in retail and wholesale operations ARPU increased by 29 as customers rewarded us with and a recovery in the more cyclical operations.
Adjusted basic earnings per share Adjusted free cash flow Total shareholder return 2, 3 1, 2 p m % BSkyB FTSE 13% 2013 60.0p 2013 1,028 5 Yr CAGR 5% 18% 2012 50.8p 2012 910 1 Yr CAGR 16% 2011 41.6p 2011 869 Description Description Description Adjusted basic EPS is the profit after tax for the year, Adjusted free cash flow is defined as cash generated Total shareholder return TSR represents the change in value of a share held for a 12-month period to 30 June, excluding adjusting items and related tax effects, divided from operations after the impact of capital expenditure, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares.
net interest and tax paid, cash flows to and from joint assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase additional shares at the closing price applicable on ventures, excluding adjusting items.
The value of the share is based Adjusted basic EPS provides a measure of shareholder Analysis on the average share price over the three months return that is comparable over time.
Adjusted basic Free cash flow is an important measure of the Groups prior to 30 June.
The chart above illustrates the TSR EPS increased by 18% to reach a record level of 60.0p.
success in converting profits to cash flow and of the performance for the 12 months to 30 June 2013 and underlying health of the business.
Adjusted free cash an average annual performance compounded over flow increased by 13% to over 1 billion for the first time.
Analysis TSR represents a comparable measure of shareholder return over time.
BSkyB shares outperformed the FTSE 100 index by 2 percentage points in the year to 30 June 2013 and by 8 percentage points over five years.
1 For a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures, see page 50.
3 For further details of profit after tax excluding adjusting items and related tax effects, see note 1 of the Summary financial statement.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 33 Annual Review 2013 Board of Directors 1.
Chase Carey Chairman Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 15 06 2004 Appointed to the Board: 30 01 2013 Nationality: British Nationality: American Committee membership Skills and experience An executive with extensive media and Member of the Remuneration and Corporate Governance & Nominations Committees pay TV experience.
Chase is President and Chief Operating Officer of Twenty-First Skills and experience Century Fox, Inc. and Chairman of the Extensive experience in leadership roles Supervisory Board of Sky Deutschland AG.
Co-founder and Former President and Chief Executive instrumental in the development of Schroder Officer of DIRECTV, Inc. where he led the Ventures the private equity group which operations and strategic direction of the later became Permira of which he served Direct TV Group.
Prior to joining DIRECTV, Inc. as Chairman from 1984 to 2001.
Prior to his he was Co-Chief Operating Officer of News appointment as Chairman of the Company Corporation subsequently renamed on 3 April 2012, he served as Deputy Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. and Chairman and Senior Independent Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Director.
Chairman of Alta of the Fox Television Group.
Advisers Limited, an investment advisory firm, since January 2007.
Tracy Clarke of the Courtauld Institute of Art for ten years 4 5 6 Independent Non-Executive Director before retiring in July 2012.
Chairman of SVG Capital plc, a public quoted private equity Appointed to the Board: 11 06 2012 group, from April 2005 to November 2012.
Jeremy Darroch Member of the Remuneration Chief Executive Officer and the Bigger Picture Committees Appointed to the Board: 16 08 2004 Skills and experience Nationality: British An experienced banking and human Skills and experience resources professional.
Group Head, People, Jeremy joined the Company as Chief Compliance, Communications and Culture Financial Officer CFO in 2004 and was 7 8 9 at Standard Chartered Bank, Tracy has spent appointed CEO in December 2007.
He has most of her career in banking roles both extensive experience in the retailing and in the UK and in Hong Kong.
A former fast-moving consumer goods sectors.
Prior Non-Executive Director of SC First Bank to joining the Company, Jeremy was Group in Korea 2005-2007 and Non-Executive Finance Director of DSG International plc Director of Eaga plc 2007-2011, where DSG, formerly Dixons Group plc and prior to she chaired the Remuneration Committee.
DSG, he spent 12 years at Procter & Gamble Tracy is a trustee of the charity, WORKing in a variety of roles in the UK and Europe.
A member of the Institute Until June 2013, Jeremy was Non-Executive of Financial Services and a Fellow of Director and the Chairman of the Audit the Chartered Institute of Personnel Committee of Marks and Spencer Group plc.
10 11 12 Jeremy is a Board Member of the charity, Youth Sport Trust and is a Business Member 6.
David F. DeVoe of the National Centre for Universities Non-Executive Director and Business.
Appointed to the Board: 15 12 1994 Nationality: American 3.
Andrew Griffith Skills and experience Chief Financial Officer A finance professional with extensive Appointed to the Board: 07 04 2008 experience in the media sector.
From July Nationality: British 2013, David will serve as Senior Advisor to Skills and experience the Board of Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. An experienced finance professional.
formerly known as News Corporation 13 14 15 Andrew joined the Company in 1999 and having served as CFO from 1990 to June 2013 held a number of senior finance roles prior and as a Senior Executive Vice President to his appointment as CFO in April 2008. from 1996 to June 2013.
David is a Director of In addition to his role as CFO, Andrew has Shine Limited and has previously served as executive responsibility for Skys commercial a Director of Gemstar-TV Guide 2001-2008 businesses, including advertising, data and as a Director of DIRECTV 2003-2008. services and broadcasting to licensed premises.
Andrew joined the Company from Rothschild, the investment banking organisation, where he provided financial and strategic advice to corporate clients in the technology, media and telecommunications sector.
He has a degree in law from Nottingham University and is a member of the 100 Group of Finance Directors and Advisory Board of the Oxford University Centre for Business Taxation.
34 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 7.
Danny Rimer Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 29 11 2011 Appointed to the Board: 16 11 2012 Appointed to the Board: 07 04 2008 Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: Swiss Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Member of the Audit, Corporate Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee and member of the Remuneration Committee Governance & Nominations and the and member of the Corporate Governance Bigger Picture Committees & Nominations Committee Skills and experience Experienced finance professional and Skills and experience Skills and experience entrepreneur and CEO of Aberdeen Asset Experienced executive with strong Investment finance professional and Management PLC, the fund management operational expertise.
Dave is President, entrepreneur with extensive experience group that he co-founded in 1983.
He is Personal Care for Unilever plc, where he also of building investment businesses a member of the Scottish Governments sits on the Unilever Leadership Executive.
Specific sector knowledge Financial Services Advisory Board.
Martin Joining Unilever as a graduate trainee in and skills focus include internet is former Chairman of Chaucer PLC and 1987, he has held a variety of senior roles in infrastructure software and services, was Non-Executive Director of Dynmark Europe, South America and Asia, including technology, communications, e-commerce, International Limited.
He is a Director President for the Americas and Chairman and media business.
General Partner of of a number of investment trusts and of Unilever UK and Ireland.
the venture capital firm Index Ventures is Chairman of Firstgroup plc.
James Murdoch Prior to joining Index Ventures, he was a General Partner of The Barksdale Group.
Adine Grate Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Danny serves on a number of boards Appointed to the Board: 13 02 2003 including Etsy, Inc. First Dibs, Inc. Flipboard, Appointed to the Board: 17 07 2013 Nationality: American Inc. FON Wireless Limited, Nasty Gal, Inc.
Nationality: Swedish Committee membership RightScale Inc. and Viagogo.
Skills and experience Chairman of the Bigger Picture Committee An executive with extensive finance and 14.
Arthur Siskind Skills and experience investment management experience.
An experienced media executive who Non-Executive Director Adine has operated at the top tiers of Nordic has held a number of senior leadership Appointed to the Board: 19 11 1991 based international business for the past roles within Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc.
Chairperson of NASDAQ formerly known as News Corporation.
OMX Swedish Listing Committee and Vice Committee membership He has been a Director of the Company since Chairperson of AP7, a Swedish pension Member of the Corporate Governance 2003, having served as CEO from November and savings asset management company.
& Nominations Committee 2003 until December 2007 and Chairman A Board member of: Three Scandinavia, from December 2007 until April 2012.
Skills and experience a mobile telecommunications and broadband James is Deputy Chief Operating Officer, Highly experienced legal practitioner and operator: SOBI AB, an international speciality Chairman and CEO, International at member of the Bar of the State of New healthcare company: Sampo OY, a leading Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. James is York since 1962.
Senior Advisor to the financial and insurance institution and a member of the Board of Directors and Chairman since January 2005 and Director Swedavia AB, an airport operator.
Formerly Executive Committee at Twenty-First Emeritus since October 2012 of Twenty-First Executive Vice President and Managing Century Fox, Inc. and a member of the Century Fox, Inc. formerly known as Director of Investor AB, owner of a number Board of News Corporation, Inc.
Arthur served at News of Nordic based international companies.
2000 and 2003, he was Chairman and CEO Corporation as an Executive Director from Adine is Chairperson of Base23 and Friends of Star Group Limited.
James is a former 1991 to October 2012, Group General Counsel of a DesignMuseum.
Non-Executive Director of GlaxoSmithKline from 1991 to December 2004, as a Senior plc 2009-2012 and Sothebys 2010-2012.
Executive Vice President from 1996 to 9.
Andy Higginson December 2004 and as an Executive Senior Independent 12.
Matthieu Pigasse Vice President from 1991 to 1996.
Adjunct Non-Executive Director Professor of Law at the Cornell Law School Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 01 09 2004 2007-2009 and Adjunct Professor Appointed to the Board: 29 11 2011 Nationality: British of Law at Georgetown University Law Nationality: French Center 2005-2007.
Committee membership Committee membership: Chairman of the Corporate Governance Member of the Audit Committee 15.
Andy Sukawaty & Nominations Committee and member Independent Non-Executive Director of the Audit Committee Skills and experience Leading investment banking professional Appointed to the Board: 01 06 2013 Skills and experience and former civilian administrator of the Nationality: American A former Director of Tesco plc having spent French Ministry of Economy and Finance.
15 years at the company, first as Finance Committee membership In 2002 he joined investment banking firm and Strategy Director, and latterly as Member of the Remuneration Committee Lazard.
Matthieu is Deputy CEO of Lazard Chief Executive of their Retailing Services in France and Vice Chairman of Lazard in Skills and experience business.
His early career was with Unilever, Europe.
He is also the owner of a French Executive Chairman of Inmarsat plc, global Guinness, Laura Ashley and the Burton publishing group, Les Inrockuptibles and mobile satellite communications provider.
He is a member of the 100 Group a co-controlling shareholder of the leading Andy has previously held a number of Finance Directors.
Andy is Chairman newspaper publisher Le Monde and the of senior management positions in the of Poundland Limited and N Brown plc and French edition of the Huffington Post.
telecommunications industry including: a Non-Executive Director of Woolworth SA A Board member of Groupe Lucien Chief Executive and President of Sprint and the Rugby Football Union.
Barrire, Derichebourg and Relax News.
PCS and Chief Executive of NTL UK and roles at US West and AT&T.
Andy is Non-Executive Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Ziggo N. V. a Dutch national media and communications company.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 35 Annual Review 2013 Summary Directors report Governance Directors report Role of the Board A more detailed Directors report is included in the Companys Annual The Board has collective responsibility for the management, direction and Report which can be downloaded from the Companys corporate website performance of the Company and provides leadership within a framework at sky.
com corporate of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be appropriately assessed and managed.
The Board sets the strategic direction, ensuring Charitable contributions through our that the necessary resources are in place for the Company to meet its community and environmental activities objectives and deliver sustainable performance.
The Seeing the bigger picture Summary Report 2013, which does not form part of the Annual Review, will be made available online at Board and Committee framework sky.
com biggerpicture and outlines our vision, initiatives and performance over the year.
Board During the financial year, we contributed 5,788,768 to our key charity partners including: the National Film and Television School, the Media Trust, Youth Sport Trust, British Cycling, WWF, Global Action Plan, Ideas Tap, Tate Audit Remuneration Liverpool and the Victoria and Albert Museum.
We also supported a number Committee Committee of charities through our employee matched fundraising and payroll giving activities and our volunteering initiatives.
Bigger Picture Corporate Governance & Corporate governance Committee Nominations Committee The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance in its management of the Group and when accounting to shareholders.
The Company values its dialogue with both institutional and private investors.
For the benefit of private investors, the Company Appointments to the Board and succession planning produces this short form Annual Review which contains the information The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee keeps the Boards believed to be of most interest to them.
A more detailed corporate balance of skills, knowledge, experience and the length of service of governance report is included in the Companys Annual Report which individuals under constant review.
In respect of succession planning and is available for download from the Companys corporate website at supplementing the skill set of the Board, there is an established procedure sky.
com corporate for the appointment of Directors.
In brief, the Committee identifies the set of skills and experience required and, with the assistance of external search Directors agencies, selects individuals to take Board positions on review of their The Board currently comprises 15 Directors, made up of two Executive individual merits.
The names and biographical details of the Directors of the Company are given on pages 34 and 35.
Board and committee changes during the year At the Companys 2013 Annual General Meeting AGM, all current At the Companys AGM on 1 November 2012, Jacques Nasser retired Executive and Non-Executive Directors will retire and offer themselves from the Board and also as a member of the Remuneration Committee.
The Directors interests in the ordinary shares and Following the AGM, Martin Gilbert was appointed as Chairman of the options of the Company are disclosed within the report on Directors Audit Committee in place of Andy Higginson who remains a member.
On 16 November 2012, Dave Lewis was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
On 30 January 2013, Dave Lewis was appointed as a member of the Audit Committee and the Bigger Picture Committee and on 11 June 2013 he was appointed as a member of the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee.
On 30 January 2013, Thomas Mockridge resigned and Chase Carey was appointed as a Non-Executive Director.
On 1 June 2013, Lord Wilson of Dinton retired from the Board and as a member of the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee and the Bigger Picture Committee.
On 1 June 2013, Andy Sukawaty was appointed as an Independent NonExecutive Director.
On 11 June 2013, Andy Sukawaty was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee.
On 17 July 2013, Adine Grate was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
36 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Board diversity The Board has noted the findings on the Davies Review and has published a statement on its intention to increase female representation on the Board.
This statement can be found on the Companys corporate website.
The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee is responsible for succession planning and further information of the work of the Committee during the year can be found in the Companys Annual Report.
Annual General Meeting The notice convening the AGM, to be held at the Edinburgh International Conference Centre, The Exchange, Edinburgh EH3 8EE on 22 November 2013 at 11.00am, is available for download from the Companys corporate website at sky.
com corporate Dividends The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2013 of 19.0 pence per ordinary share which, together with the interim dividend of 11.0 pence paid to shareholders on 23 April 2013, will make a total dividend for the year of 30.0 pence 2012: 25.40 pence.
Subject to approval at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 6 December 2013 to shareholders appearing on the register at the close of business on 15 November 2013.
Shareholder communications Presentations and webcasts on the development of the business are available to all shareholders on the Companys corporate website.
The Company also uses email alerts and actively promotes downloading of all reports enhancing speed and equality of shareholder communication.
The Company has taken full advantage of the provisions within the Companies Act 2006 allowing the website to be used as the primary means of communication with shareholders where they have not requested hard copy documentation.
The shareholder information section on page 55 contains further details on electronic shareholder communications together with more general information of interest to shareholders which is also included on the Companys corporate website.
By order of the Board Chris Taylor Company Secretary 25 July 2013 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 37 Annual Review 2013 Summary report on Directors remuneration Dear Shareholder This is the year in which the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP or Plan awards On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our report on Directors made in 2010 and 2011 are due to vest, in line with our biennial vesting remuneration for the year ended 30 June 2013.
At Sky we are clear that schedule.
In light of our outstanding performance, these awards vested in our executive remuneration policy is key to the successful execution of full.
Over the three-year period of the plan shareholders have benefited from our business plan, our growth strategy, and the delivery of value to our excellent performance: revenue has increased by 1.5 billion 27%, we have shareholders.
The current remuneration framework continues to serve added 460 million to operating profit 53% and almost doubled EPS from the Company and its shareholders well.
We set tough performance targets just over 30 pence to 60 pence per share.
In addition, we have returned, via commensurate with a growth business in a highly-competitive sector.
dividends and share buy-backs, 2.5 billion to shareholders, whilst our share Fixed pay is set low compared to market but achievement of stretching price using the undisturbed share price of 5.40 preceding the proposed targets delivers significant but appropriate rewards for our Executive News Corporation subsequently renamed Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. Directors through the annual bonus, the Long-Term Incentive Plan, and offer has risen by 50%.
As previously stated our Plan is atypical, vesting Co-Investment Plan awards.
This has been an outstanding year for Sky every other year as opposed to every 12 months, therefore total and we believe that our remuneration policy aligns executive performance remuneration for this year will spike when compared to last year.
The Remuneration Committee has decided to increase the base salaries of the CEO and CFO by 2.75% and 5% respectively.
This is the first increase Our Long-Term Incentive Plan is atypical, vesting every second year breaking the annual vesting cycle.
A consequence of this is that the value of the since July 2011 and for Andrew Griffith reflects an increase in responsibility for Skys commercial businesses.
The base pay of the CEO still remains lower remuneration delivered to executive directors will spike every other year.
The Committee reviewed the vesting schedule and concluded that it than that of his predecessor in 2007.
The overall pay increase for employees is 2.75% increasing to 3.75% for those earning less than 50,000 per year.
continues to support the overall strategy of the business.
Individual pay awards range from 0% to over 5%.
Over the last two years for When taking decisions on executive pay we take account of the prevailing employees earning less than 50,000 per year the average increase is 8%: facts and circumstances and the guidelines that are set for all employee considerably in excess of average pay increases in the UK and reflective of remuneration across the Company.
In this way we manage risk and the significant contribution that all our employees make to the continued best protect Sky and its shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee success of our business.
Our disciplined approach to the management continues to retain discretion to change remuneration either up or down of fixed pay and our firm belief in rewarding for performance means that to appropriately reflect Company or individual performance which we the ratio of fixed to variable pay of 14%:86% for our Executive Directors believe is in the best interests of our shareholders.
compares favourably to the average of 26%:74% for our comparator group.
In what has remained a tough consumer environment, we sold more During the next financial year, the Committee will continue to review and products to more customers and increased the amount they spend with take into account the revised remuneration reporting regulations provided us.
Over the year, we added organically 2.6 million new subscription products, by the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills.
We continue to refine and with the acquisition of the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line and develop the structure of our report to provide greater clarity and telephony business, we will finish the year with a total base of paid-for transparency and welcome feedback from our shareholders on its contents.
As a result of our strong performance in communications we became Finally, I would like to announce that I will be stepping down as Chairman the UKs second-largest broadband provider, with more than 4.9 million of the Committee immediately after the Companys AGM in November 2013 customers, achieving this milestone less than seven years after launching and Tracy Clarke will be taking over as Chair.
We ended the year with 11.2 million customers, up Danny Rimer 547,000 on last year, making Sky the choice of well over 40% of households Chairman of the Remuneration Committee across Britain and Ireland.
This strong operational performance, combined with our continued focus on cost control and efficiency, has translated into excellent financial performance and increased returns to shareholders.
Total revenue increased by 7%, adjusted operating profit was up by 9% to 1,330 million while adjusted basic earnings per share was 60.0 pence, an increase of 18% on last year and almost two and a half times the level of five years ago.
In light of this, the Board has proposed a full-year dividend of 30.0 pence, an increase of 18% which represents the ninth consecutive year of growth.
On the strength of the Groups overall performance, annual bonuses were paid out close to maximum levels.
38 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc This is a summary of the full Directors remuneration report included in the Companys Annual Report which can be downloaded from the Companys corporate website at sky.
com corporate Skys remuneration policy and structure Element How it supports Skys strategy Annual opportunity Structure, operation and other details Basic salary Attracts and retains Executive Directors CEO 935,000 Reviewed annually, effective from 1 July.
CFO 573,500 Set relatively low versus our peer group the 20 companies in the FTSE 100 above and below Sky by market capitalisation.
On 1 July 2013 increases of 2.75% and 5% respectively for the CEO and CFO.
Annual bonus Drives and rewards the delivery 200% of salary CEO Performance measures and weightings are reviewed each year.
of annual performance goals 150% of salary CFO Currently three equally weighted measures: Operating profit growth measures operational efficiency Operating cash flow shows ability to generate and manage cash Product net growth critical measure to execute our strategy Stretching performance targets are set annually.
Maximum bonus is paid only if targets are achieved or exceeded.
Bonus payouts for performance below the targets set are at the discretion of the Committee.
Co-Investment Plan Encourages personal investment and Executive Directors may Awards granted during the year: shareholder alignment: rewards long-term invest up to half of their Executive Directors may invest up to half of their earned annual focus and performance achievement earned annual cash cash bonus in shares.
The investment shares are matched on a bonus in shares.
gross basis and vest based on three-year compound annual EPS The maximum annual growth as follows: opportunity is: - Below RPI 3% no matching shares vest - 150% of basic salary - RPI 3% shares vest 1 for 1 CEO - RPI 6% the shares vest in full - 112.5% of basic salary For awards in 2013 14, the only change to the above is that RPI 6% CFO has been changed to RPI 5%.
Long-Term Rewards longer-term value creation and 600,000 shares CEO For awards vesting in 2013: Incentive Plan aligns Executive Director interests with 320,000 shares CFO 100% subject to three-year operational targets of EPS, Operating those of shareholders cash flow and Revenue growth.
For awards in 2013 14: 70% of the award is based on achievement of operational targets equally weighted on EPS, operating cash flow and revenue growth.
30% of the award is based on TSR relative to the FTSE 100.
Awards are based on number of shares: this avoids the flow through effect of salary increases when awards are determined as a percentage of salary.
Further details of the vesting structure are on pages 41 and 42.
Pension and Attracts and retains Executive Directors CEO receives a cash Benefits are broadly in line with those for all employees.
other benefits supplement in lieu Defined contribution pension with cash supplement for amounts of pension in excess of the Annual Allowance and cash in lieu of employer CFO receives a contributions where Lifetime Allowance is reached.
cash supplement Income protection for all members of up to two-thirds of salary.
in excess of Annual Insured death in service of up to one-third of salary, which can be Allowance taken entirely as a pension, or 50% lump sum and 50% pension, or entirely as a lump sum, subject to the lifetime allowance.
Healthcare, 4x base salary life cover, use of a company car and 30 days holiday.
Notes i Operating profit, operating cash flow, EPS and revenue growth are generally defined as adjusted operating profit, adjusted operating cash flow, adjusted EPS and adjusted revenue growth.
However the Committee will review the measures and may amend definitions at its discretion.
ii The performance standards for the Co-Investment Plan and the Long-Term Incentive Plan are set in the light of the business plan for each year and the longer-term strategy.
iii The tight link between pay and performance coupled with the Remuneration Committee practice of exercising its judgement when determining whether payouts are justified under Skys incentives plans creates an in-built malus provision: the Committee retains the discretion to withhold or vary downwards the vesting of shares based on its review of performance.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 39 Annual Review 2013 Summary report on Directors remuneration continued The key elements of our executive remuneration structure of fixed pay, The maximum award of matching shares is 1.5 times the gross equivalent annual and deferred pay, long-term incentives and pensions and other of the investment.
Matching shares vest at one times once a threshold benefits are described in further detail below.
performance of RPI plus 3% is achieved and thereafter on a straight line basis up to a maximum of 1.5 times at RPI plus 5% 2013 scheme or 6% Basic salary 2012 scheme.
We expect 2013 awards to be granted in August 2013.
Basic salaries for the Executive Directors are reviewed annually on 1 July in Matching shares vest after three years only if three-year EPS growth line with all employees.
When reviewing salaries the Committee takes into exceeds the minimum levels of average annual growth.
account the overall employee salary review budget, the range of salary The table below sets out performance thresholds under the 2012 scheme: increases based on performance, market comparisons, the performance and experience of the individual, behaviours, the size and scope of the role and the value of total remuneration.
EPS growth performance Match awarded annual average growth number of matching shares over three-year term awarded per deferred share Annual bonus plan Less than RPI 3% 0.0 The annual bonus drives the achievement of annual financial and strategic RPI 3% 1.0 business goals.
The plan, which is the same for senior executives, is based RPI 4% 1.17 on three equally-weighted measures which are key performance indicators RPI 5% 1.33 for our business: RPI 6% 1.5 adjusted operating profit More than RPI 6% 1.5 adjusted operating cash flow Straight-line interpolation between points i. e. on an equivalent gross basis net product growth Executive Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP The annual bonus plan encourages Executive Directors to focus on achieving We operate an LTIP for our Executive Directors and other senior executives demanding performance standards that are aligned to our growth strategy.
to reward long-term focus and performance achievement, which in turn The maximum bonus may be payable if these standards are achieved or drives the growth strategy of the business, delivering long-term value exceeded.
The Committee can use its discretion to vary the bonus payment to each The key features of the Plan are as follows: Executive Director up or down based on its assessment of factors which it considers to be of material importance in determining the final outcome Awards of shares are made annually at the discretion of the Remuneration both those which the Committee considers to be in the control of the Committee.
Executive Directors, and those which are outside of their influence.
The The grants are awarded as a number of shares rather than as a Committee makes its assessment of performance in the context of a percentage of salary or monetary value in order to provide greater number of circumstances for example: alignment with shareholders.
The value of an Executives award is The general economic environment and the impact on consumer therefore linked to the share price and avoids the perverse effect of spending power a fall in the share price resulting in an increase in the number of shares under award.
It also avoids the compounding effect on LTIP awards as Skys performance relative to its competitors a result of increases in basic salaries.
The competitive landscape including entry and exit of competitors The Committee reviews the number of shares to be granted to the Significant over or under performance of one or more of the three Executive Directors annually and retains discretion to vary the number key metrics awarded.
The number of shares granted annually has remained Personal performance of the Executive Directors unchanged over the past five years, with the exception of 2011 when additional awards were made due to the potential News Corporation The Committee also considers Skys underlying performance.
subsequently renamed Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. bid.
The maximum bonus opportunities for 2013 14 are unchanged at 200% The LTIP operates over a three-year performance cycle.
Unlike other and 150% of basic salary for the CEO and CFO respectively.
An explanation companies which grant the full award at the start of year one, we make of the performance outturn for 2012 13 against the measures and the the award in two tranches, one at the beginning of the cycle and one in resulting payouts under the annual bonus is shown on page 42. the second year.
Awards are made annually but there is a two-year interval between vesting dates rather than the 12 months that is typical of the Co-Investment Plan UK market.
The LTIP awards for the performance period July 2010 to June The Co-Investment Plan CIP offers Executive Directors and invited senior 2013 vest in July 2013.
The next vesting, for the performance period July executives the opportunity to invest up to half their annual bonus in the 2012 to June 2015, will be in July 2015.
In plans with annual vesting, realised Companys shares and earn performance-related matching shares in awards year-on-year are broadly similar.
Our approach breaks the annual return for their investment.
This plan is central to our pay policy in that vesting cycle and leads to significant variation in realised pay with zero it encourages personal long-term investment and shareholder alignment, vesting in one year followed by a large vesting the following year.
and rewards long-term focus and performance achievement.
Participation To ensure an outcome that is fair to both shareholders and executives, is voluntary but encouraged.
Fixed pay is relatively low and executives can the Committee has discretion to determine how shares should be treated contribute to the CIP to maximise their pay opportunity.
in the event of change of control.
40 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Performance measures for 2012 13 awards TSR vesting schedule TSR Vesting Schedule The Committee regularly reviews the measures under the LTIP to ensure Payout TSR Payout % of grant they align to the strategic objectives of the business.
The performance Performance 30 measures for the 2012 and 2013 awards, which may vest in 2015, are Below Median 0% as follows: 50% 10% Operational targets 70% of the award 55% 14% There are three equally weighted operational performance measures, 10 each of which is a key indicator of Skys continued success: 60% 18% EPS growth: measures our bottom line performance 65% 22% Operating cash flow: measures our ability to generate and manage cash 70% 26% Revenue growth: key to our growth strategy 75% 30% Below 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 Points are awarded for performance on the three operational measures Median 100% 30% Final TSR rank % as follows: For EPS, two points are awarded for growth of RPI 3% per year, with TSR calculations are conducted independently by Towers Watson, appointed the maximum ten points awarded for RPI 5% per year or more as advisors to the Committee in 2013.
For operating cash flow and revenue growth, one point is awarded for 75% achievement of target on a sliding scale up to ten points for 105% or more Pension and other benefits One point equates to 10% of the award vesting, with maximum vesting for We operate a defined contribution plan for all eligible employees, the BSkyB 21 points or more, vesting on a straight-line basis between these points Pension Plan Pension Plan.
The Company has no legacy defined benefit plans.
With effect from 1 July 2013 all eligible employees are automatically Performance measures for the period July 2012 and June 2015 are shown enrolled into the Pension Plan.
in further detail in the table below: Individuals whose pension contributions exceed the Annual Allowance or the Average EPS growth Operating cash flow Revenue growth Lifetime Allowance for pension tax relief are paid a cash supplement.
Jeremy Performance Performance Darroch became a deferred member of the Pension Plan on 1 July 2012 on Performance Points achieved Points achieved Points reaching the Lifetime Allowance.
He was paid a cash supplement during the achieved awarded % of target awarded % of target awarded year of 158,564 in lieu of pension contributions.
Andrew Griffith received a 105% 105% cash supplement of 36,986 in lieu of pension contributions in excess of the RPI 5% p. a.
10 or more 10 or more 10 Annual Allowance.
6 95% 6 95% 6 The Pension Plan has income protection of up to two-thirds salary, and RPI 3.5% p. a.
4 90% 4 90% 4 insured death in service of up to one-third salary, which can be taken entirely RPI 3% p. a.
2 85% 2 85% 2 as a pension, or 50% lump sum and 50% pension, or entirely as a lump sum, Less than subject to the lifetime allowance.
The Pension Plan also has Life Assurance RPI 3% p. a.
0 75% 1 75% 1 cover up to two times for employees who are auto-enrolled, increasing to Less than Less than four times for members who joined prior to 1 July 2013 and for auto enrolled 75% 0 75% 0 members who choose to increase their contributions.
All employees are eligible to receive private medical insurance.
In addition, the Executive The top end of the EPS growth range was set for awards in 2012 and 2013 at Directors have the use of a company car.
This is equivalent to growth in earnings of 26% over three years if RPI is 3% a year.
This level of growth in earnings was set at a level which What other share schemes do we operate?
exceeded consensus research analysts estimates.
Management Long-Term Incentive Plan MLTIP Relative TSR performance 30% of the award The Company also operates a MLTIP for selected employees excluding the Relative TSR was reintroduced as a measure for the 2012 and 2013 awards, Executive Directors and senior executives who participate in the LTIP.
having been excluded in the awards made in 2010 and 2011 which vest in Awards under this scheme are made at the discretion of the CEO, within July 2013, due to the impact on our share price of the possible bid from the parameters agreed with the Remuneration Committee.
The MLTIP News Corporation subsequently renamed Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc.. mirrors the LTIP in design in order to ensure alignment between participants The Companys TSR performance is measured relative to the TSR of the to both schemes.
If the Companys TSR performance is below Executive Share Option Schemes Executive Schemes median, the TSR element of the award lapses in full.
For median performance, Sky has in place Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Schemes 10% of an award may vest, with the full 30% vesting for upper quartile under HMRC guidelines.
No options have been granted since 2004.
Vesting is on a straight-line basis, between these points Griffith was granted awards under the Executive Schemes prior to his as shown below.
appointment as an Executive Director.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 41 Median Upper Quartile Annual Review 2013 Summary report on Directors remuneration continued Sharesave Scheme Annual bonus payouts The Sharesave Scheme is open to UK and Irish employees.
Options are Based on our relative performance against the key bonus measures normally exercisable after either three or five years from the date of grant.
and competition, the Committee has decided to award near maximum The price at which options are offered is not less than 80% of the middlebonus payouts of 195% of base salary for the CEO and 145% for the market price on the dealing day immediately preceding the date of invitation.
CFO, which compared to maximum possible payouts of 200% and It is the policy of the Company to make an invitation to employees to 150% respectively.
participate in the scheme following the announcement of the year end Co-Investment Plan results.
Currently approximately 6,100 employees participate in these The Remuneration Committee has agreed that the matching shares under schemes.
Jeremy Darroch and Andrew Griffith each have options granted the CIP will vest in full on 31 August 2013.
The average adjusted EPS growth under the Sharesave Scheme.
rate of 23% per year over the three-year period exceeds the threshold for maximum vesting.
Details of the performance targets which apply What are the key elements of the Executive Directors service contracts?
Executive Directors service contracts contain a maximum notice period are included in the policy section above.
of one year and a non-compete provision of one year.
In the event of Outstanding awards under this plan are shown in the table on page 45. termination, Executive Directors may be entitled to up to one years salary and benefits which may be payable in lieu of notice by the Company.
LTIP vesting and awards No bonus is payable in respect of any notice period not worked by the Performance measures for 2010 11 awards individual.
In the event of termination for cause, salary and benefits The awards made in 2010 and 2011 are dependent on operational would be payable only up to the date of termination.
TSR was not included as a performance measure given the Companys share price at the time of grant being materially Jeremy Darrochs initial service contract on appointment as CFO commenced impacted by the possible News Corporation subsequently renamed on 16 August 2004.
The contract was revised on 7 December 2007 when he Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. bid.
Points have been awarded for became CEO.
Andrew Griffiths service contract was revised on 7 April 2008 performance on three operational measures as follows: when he was appointed CFO.
Average EPS growth Operating cash flow Revenue growth Copies of the Executive Directors service contracts are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Companys registered Performance Performance Performance Points achieved Points achieved Points office on any business day and will be available at the place where the achieved awarded % of target awarded % of target awarded AGM is being held from 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
105% 105% Do the Executive Directors have any external appointments?
10 or more 10 or more 10 Outside appointments for Executive Directors are considered by the RPI 7% p. a.
8 100% 8 100% 8 Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee to ensure they would not RPI 6% p. a.
6 95% 6 95% 6 cause a conflict of interest and, if not, are then approved by the Chairman RPI 5% p. a.
It is the Companys policy that remuneration earned RPI 4% p. a.
2 85% 2 85% 2 from such appointments may be retained by the individual.
1 75% 1 75% 1 ended 30 June 2013 Jeremy Darroch served as a Non-Executive Director Less than Less than Less than and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Marks and Spencer Group plc RPI 3% p. a.
Jeremy stepped down from both appointments on 19 June 2013.
Actual points awarded Average EPS growth Operating Cash Flow Revenue growth Performance and awards Actual points awarded Actual points awarded Actual points awarded As shown on pages 28 to 30, we delivered excellent financial results in a tough consumer environment.
Customers continue to recognise the 10.00 10.00 8.07 great value we offer by choosing Sky over other providers and buying Over the three-year period of the plan, shareholders have benefited from more services from us.
excellent performance: almost double EPS from just over 30 pence to Against this background we set out below the outcomes for the key 60 pence per share, returning via dividends and share buy-backs 2.5 billion elements of our remuneration programmes.
to shareholders, and the share price rising by 50%.
We are delighted that Company performance has been exceptional, creating significant Basic salary shareholder value and resulting in 100% vesting for LTIP awards made The Remuneration Committee has decided to increase the base in 2010 and 2011, based on the number of points awarded exceeding 21. salaries of the CEO by 2.75% and the CFO by 5%, reflecting his increase The vesting date is 29 July 2013. in responsibilities.
This is their first increase since July 2011, and is in the context of an overall pay increase for employees of 2.75% increasing 2013 Award to 3.75% for those earning less than 50,000 per year.
Over the last The Committee has agreed that Jeremy Darroch will be granted an award two years for employees earning less than 50,000 per year the typical of 600,000 shares and Andrew Griffith will be granted an award of 320,000 increase is 8%: considerably in excess of average pay increases in the shares on 26 July 2013.
This is the Year 2 award of the 2012-2015 Plan, and is UK and reflective of the significant contribution that our employees the same number of shares as was awarded at the start of the performance make to the continued success of our business.
These awards will normally vest on 26 July 2015 subject to the performance measures being achieved.
42 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc The operational performance conditions of the LTIP award in 2013 will Directors interests remain the same as for those made in 2011 and 2012.
These are EPS growth, The Company encourages the Non-Executive Directors to build up a operating cash flow and revenue growth and 70% of the award will vest holding in the Companys shares and has introduced a facility whereby dependent on these measures see page 41.
The EPS growth target for Non-Executive Directors can elect to receive a portion of their fees in the maximum award of 10 points has been set at RPI 5% p. a. equivalent BSkyB shares.
Shares are purchased on a monthly basis in the market.
to 26% growth in earnings over three years if RPI is 3% p. a..
This level of The Directors who are deemed to be affiliated with Twenty-First Century growth in earnings was set at a level which exceeds consensus research Fox, Inc. formerly known as News Corporation, James Murdoch, Chase analysts estimates.
Carey, David DeVoe and Arthur Siskind, are not permitted to participate in this facility.
This is due to the fact that under Rule 9 of the Takeover Code In addition, 30% of the award will vest dependent on relative TSR they would be deemed to be acting in concert with Twenty-First Century Fox, performance please refer to page 41.
Inc. if they were to purchase shares in the Company and this would place Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. under an obligation to make a mandatory TSR performance offer for all of the issued share capital of the Company.
The graph below shows the Companys TSR for the six years to 30 June 2013, measured as the value of a 100 holding in ordinary shares at the start of The interests of all serving Directors in the ordinary share capital of the the period.
The performance is shown relative to the FTSE 100 and FTSE Company during the year were: Media 350 indices, which represent the broad market indices within which Sky shares are traded.
At 30 June At 30 June 2013 2012 200 187 Sky Jeremy Darroch 354,575 296,157 180 FTSE 100 Andrew Griffith 114,452 87,533 FTSE 350 Media 181 160 i Chase Carey 140 Tracy Clarke 895 David DeVoe 120 130 Nick Ferguson 22,128 14,966 100 Martin Gilbert 2,281 971 80 Andy Higginson 6,571 5,639 60 i Dave Lewis 705 40 James Murdoch 20 Matthieu Pigasse 2,477 1,058 Danny Rimer 21,122 15,836 0 Jun-08 Jun-09 Jun-10 Jun-11 Jun-12 Jun-13 Arthur Siskind Source: DataStream Return Index i Andy Sukawaty 95 i D ave Lewis, Chase Carey and Andy Sukawaty were appointed respectively to the Board on Non-Executive Directors fees 16 November 2012, 30 January 2013 and 1 June 2013 Non-Executive Directors fees are reviewed annually.
The current fees are set out in the table below: Adine Grate was appointed on 17 July 2013 and does not have any beneficial 2013 14 2012 13 holdings in the Company.
No other Director held any interest in the share Fee category per annum capital, including options, of the Company, or of any subsidiary of the Chairman 462,375 450,000 Company, during the year.
All interests at the date shown are beneficial i Deputy Chairman 30,000 30,000 and there have been no changes between 1 July and 25 July 2013.
Basic fee 60,000 58,000 During the year ended 30 June 2013, the share price traded within the range Committee Chairman 25,000 25,000 of 677.5 and 899.5 pence per share.
The middle-market closing price on the Committee Members 10,000 10,000 last trading day of the financial year was 792 pence.
Senior Independent Director 40,000 40,000 i The role of Deputy Chairman is not required to be filled at the present time.
Membership of the Remuneration Committee During the year ended 30 June 2013, the Committee chaired by Danny Rimer The Committee has agreed to increase the Chairmans fee by 2.75% and met three times.
Tracy Clarke, Nick Ferguson, Martin Gilbert and Andy Non-Executive Directors NED basic fees to 60,000 per annum, effective Sukawaty are members of the Committee.
Each NED is engaged by the Company for an initial term of three Nasser retired from the Board and as a member of the Committee.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors Sukawaty joined the Committee on 11 June 2013.
Each members attendance submit themselves for annual reappointment.
is set out in the Corporate Governance report in the Annual Report.
Share ownership The full terms of reference for the Committee are available on the Companys Sky has no formal share ownership requirement but, as the Directors corporate website.
interests table shows opposite, the Executive Directors have both increased their level of share holdings in the Company during the year.
The holdings for the CEO and CFO are 354,575 and 114,452 respectively, the equivalent on 30 June 2013 of holdings with a value of three 3x times salary and one and a half 1.5 times salary respectively based on the close share price of 7.92 on 28 June 2013.
Notes i J eremy Darroch was given a pension cash supplement of 158,564 and Andrew Griffith was given a pension cash supplement of 36,986 during the financial year.
See page 41 for further information.
During the year, Jeremy Darroch received a taxable benefit of 16,018 regarding use of a company car.
ii Jeremy Darroch is a deferred member of the Pension Plan having reached his lifetime allowance, effective 1 July 2012. iii T homas Mockridge resigned from the Board and as Deputy Chairman on 30 January 2013.
Chase Carey was appointed on 30 January 2013. iv Jacques Nasser retired from the Board and its Committees on 1 November 2012. v Lord Wilson of Dinton retired from the Board and its Committees on 1 June 2013. vi D ave Lewis was appointed to the Board on 16 November 2012 and became a member of the Audit Committee and the Bigger Picture Committee on 30 January 2013 and a member of the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee on 11 June 2013. vii Andy Sukawaty was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2013 and became a member of the Remuneration Committee on 11 June 2013. viii Total emoluments for the year ended 30 June 2012 includes former Directors of the Company who no longer serve as Directors.
Notes a 570,000 LTIP awards were exercised and subsequently disposed of at 7.06112 per share with the remaining 10,000 sold at 7.075 pence per share.
i The aggregate value received by the Directors on exercise of the LTIP before tax was 4,095,588 2012: 8,692,338. ii See performance conditions for LTIP on pages 40 and 41. iii Following the vesting of awards, participants continuing to be employed by the Company have five years to exercise their award.
Notes See performance conditions for the Co-Investment Plan on page 40. a The aggregate value received by Andrew Griffith on exercise of the CIP before tax was 575,061 2012: nil.
i Jeremy Darroch holds 59,662 shares as a match under this award.
ii Jeremy Darroch holds 66,011 shares as a match under this award.
iii Jeremy Darroch holds 58,518 shares as a match under this award.
iv Andrew Griffith holds 22,601 shares as a match under this award.
v Andrew Griffith holds 30,440 shares as a match under this award.
vi Andrew Griffith holds 26,919 shares as a match under this award.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 45 Annual Review 2013 Summary financial statement Summary consolidated income statement for the year ended 30 June 2013 2013 2012 m m Revenue 7,235 6,791 Operating expense 5,944 5,548 Operating profit 1,291 1,243 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 46 39 Investment income 28 18 Finance costs 108 111 Profit before tax 1,257 1,189 Taxation 278 283 Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 979 906 Earnings per share from profit for the year in pence Basic 60.7p 52.6p Diluted 59.7p 52.2p Summary consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 30 June 2013 2013 2012 m m Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 979 906 Other comprehensive income Amounts recognised directly in equity Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 2 Gain on revaluation of available-for-sale investments 186 8 Loss gain on cash flow hedges 27 99 Tax on cash flow hedges 7 23 166 86 Amounts reclassified and reported in the income statement Loss on cash flow hedges 48 29 Tax on cash flow hedges 11 7 37 22 Other comprehensive income for the year net of tax 129 64 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 1,108 970 46 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Summary consolidated balance sheet as at 30 June 2013 2013 2012 m m Non-current assets Goodwill 999 956 Intangible assets 718 523 Property, plant and equipment 1,041 948 Investments in joint ventures and associates 164 156 Available-for-sale investments 422 228 Deferred tax assets 38 16 Programme distribution rights 17 Trade and other receivables 17 17 Derivative financial assets 360 390 3,776 3,234 Current assets Inventories 548 456 Trade and other receivables 591 621 Short-term deposits 595 710 Cash and cash equivalents 815 464 Derivative financial assets 20 24 2,569 2,275 Total assets 6,345 5,509 Current liabilities Borrowings 11 8 Trade and other payables 2,023 1,855 Current tax liabilities 176 189 Provisions 94 43 Derivative financial liabilities 13 3 2,317 2,098 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 2,909 2,398 Trade and other payables 63 27 Provisions 14 12 Derivative financial liabilities 29 29 Deferred tax liabilities 1 1 3,016 2,467 Total liabilities 5,333 4,565 Share capital 797 837 Share premium 1,437 1,437 Reserves 1,222 1,330 Total equity attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 1,012 944 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 6,345 5,509 This summary financial statement has been approved by the Board of Directors on 25 July 2013 and was signed on its behalf by: Jeremy Darroch Andrew Griffith Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 47 Annual Review 2013 Summary financial statement continued Summary consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 30 June 2013 2013 2012 m m Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations 1,877 1,737 Interest received 29 17 Taxation paid 300 254 Net cash from operating activities 1,606 1,500 Cash flows from investing activities Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 43 39 Net funding to joint ventures and associates 4 6 Proceeds on disposal of an investment 4 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 203 228 Purchase of intangible assets 251 229 Purchase of subsidiaries net of cash and cash equivalents purchased 197 15 Purchase of available-for-sale investments 9 5 Decrease increase in short-term deposits 115 280 Net cash used in investing activities 502 724 Cash flows from financing activities Net proceeds from borrowings 498 Repayment of obligations under finance leases 1 1 Proceeds from disposal of shares in Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP 15 10 Purchase of own shares for ESOP 69 161 Purchase of own shares for cancellation 627 546 Interest paid 128 125 Dividends paid to shareholders 441 410 Net cash used in financing activities 753 1,233 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 351 457 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 464 921 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 815 464 48 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Summary consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 30 June 2013 AvailableTotal Other Retained shareholders Share Share ESOP Hedging for-sale capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserves earnings equity m m m m m m m m At 30 June 2011 876 1,437 107 14 157 358 1,700 1,035 Profit for the year 906 906 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 2 2 Revaluation of available-for-sale investments 8 8 Recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges 70 70 Tax on items taken directly to equity 16 16 Total comprehensive income for the year 54 8 2 906 970 Share-based payment 5 80 85 Tax on items taken directly to equity 10 10 Share buy-back programme Purchase of own shares for cancellation 39 39 546 546 Financial liability for close period purchases 10 10 Dividends 410 410 At 30 June 2012 837 1,437 112 68 165 399 1,850 944 Profit for the year 979 979 Revaluation of available-for-sale investments 186 186 Recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges 75 75 Tax on items taken directly to equity 18 18 Total comprehensive income for the year 57 186 979 1,108 Share-based payment 35 61 26 Tax on items taken directly to equity 8 8 Share buy-back programme Purchase of own shares for cancellation 40 40 617 617 Financial liability for close period purchases 16 16 Dividends 441 441 At 30 June 2013 797 1,437 147 11 351 439 1,876 1,012 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 49 Annual Review 2013 Summary financial statement continued Non-GAAP measures All continuing operations Note 1 Reconciliation from profit for the year to adjusted profit for the year 2013 2012 m m Reconciliation from profit for the year to adjusted profit for the year Profit for the year 979 906 Credit received following final settlement of disputes with a former manufacturer of set-top boxes 33 Costs relating to a corporate efficiency programme 33 Credit received following an Ofcom determination 32 Costs relating to one-off upgrade of set-top boxes 31 Costs relating to programme to offer wireless connectors to selected Sky Movies customers 25 Costs relating to the acquisition and integration of the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business 15 Net recovery of costs in relation to News Corporation subsequently renamed Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. proposal 31 Costs relating to a restructuring exercise 11 RCF fee write-off 5 Remeasurement of all derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting and hedge ineffectiveness 23 19 Profit on disposal of joint venture 9 7 Tax adjusting items and the tax effect of above items 17 10 Adjusted profit for the year 969 875 Reconciliation of operating profit to adjusted operating profit and adjusted EBITDA for the year ended 30 June 2013 2013 2012 2011 m m m Operating profit 1,291 1,243 1,073 Credit received following final settlement of disputes with a former manufacturer of set-top boxes 33 Costs relating to a corporate efficiency programme 33 Credit received following an Ofcom determination 32 Costs relating to one-off upgrade of set-top boxes 31 Costs relating to programme to offer wireless connectors to selected Sky Movies customers 25 Costs relating to the acquisition and integration of the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business 15 Net recovery of costs in relation to News Corporation subsequently renamed Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. proposal 31 15 Costs relating to a restructuring exercise 11 Living TV restructuring costs 26 Recovery of import duty on set-top boxes 41 Adjusted EBITDA 1,692 1,567 1,405 Depreciation and amortisation 362 344 332 Adjusted operating profit 1,330 1,223 1,073 50 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Reconciliation of cash generated from operations to adjusted free cash flow for the year ended 30 June 2013 2013 2012 2011 m m m Cash generated from operations 1,877 1,737 1,569 Interest received 29 17 7 Taxation paid 300 254 219 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 43 39 29 Net funding to joint ventures and associates 4 6 4 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 203 228 197 Purchase of intangible assets 251 229 226 Interest paid 128 125 124 Free cash flow 1,063 951 835 i Receipt following final settlement of disputes with a former manufacturer of set-top boxes 10 Cash paid relating to a corporate efficiency programme 4 i Receipt following an Ofcom determination 28 i Cash paid relating to one-off upgrade of set-top boxes 7 i Cash paid relating to programme to offer wireless connectors to selected Sky Movies customers 1 Cash paid relating to the acquisition and integration of the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business 4 i Net recovery of costs in relation to News Corporation subsequently renamed Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. proposal 13 2 Cash paid relating to restructuring exercise 3 6 i Recovery of import duty on set-top boxes 25 i Receipt on disposal of joint venture 13 6 Living TV restructuring costs 26 Adjusted free cash flow 1,028 910 869 i Net of applicable corporation tax Average Revenue Per User ARPU for the year ended 30 June 2013 2013 2012 2011 ARPU as previously reported n a 548 539 i Impact of standalone home communications 5 ii Benefit of zero-VAT magazine related income 3 iii Elimination of timing difference related to magazine closure 7 ARPU 577 548 538 i We have restated ARPU to include standalone home communications customers.
ii We previously recognised the benefit arising from the zero rated VAT treatment on a small portion of customer revenue attributable to the Sky magazine.
Following closure of the magazine we have restated the comparatives to present on a like-for-like basis.
iii Following our decision to close the Sky customer magazine, a one-off timing upside was reversed which related to revenue recognition of the magazine element of subscription revenue.
This equated to a 7 reduction to ARPU in 2011.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 51 Annual Review 2013 Summary financial statement continued Summary financial statement Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such The summary financial statement, summary Directors report and summary forward looking statements are reasonable, these statements and all other report on Directors remuneration contained within this document are forward looking statements contained in this document are not guarantees only a summary of the information provided in the consolidated financial of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other statements and Directors report contained within the Annual Report.
factors, some of which are beyond our control, are difficult to predict and The auditors report on the Companys annual accounts was unqualified.
could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or The information has been prepared in accordance with the accounting implied or forecast in the forward looking statements.
These factors include, policies as set out in the Annual Report.
These summaries do not contain but are not limited to, those risks that are highlighted in the Annual Report sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results and in the section entitled Directors report Business review Principal risks state of affairs of the Group as would be allowed by the Annual Report, & uncertainties, and information on the significant risks and uncertainties which contains more detail.
A copy of the Annual Report can be obtained, associated with our business is described therein.
free of charge, by writing to the Company Secretary at Grant Way, Isleworth, No part of these results constitutes, or shall be taken to constitute, an Middlesex TW7 5QD or it can be downloaded from the Companys website invitation or inducement to invest in the Company or any other entity at sky.
To elect to receive the Annual Report for future and must not be relied upon in any way in connection with any investment years, write to Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, decision.
All forward looking statements in this document are based on West Sussex BN99 6DA.
information known to us on the date hereof.
Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation publicly to update or revise any forward looking Whilst the financial information included in this summary financial statement has been prepared in accordance with International Financial statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, this summary Use of measures not defined under IFRS financial statement does not itself contain sufficient information to comply This Annual Review contains certain information on the Groups financial with IFRS.
position, operating results and cash flows that have been derived from The Group maintains a 52 or 53-week fiscal year ending on the Sunday measures calculated in accordance with IFRS.
This information should not nearest to 30 June in each year.
In fiscal 2013, this date was 30 June 2013, be read in isolation of the related IFRS measure.
this being a 52-week year fiscal year 2012: 1 July 2012, 52-week year.
For convenience purposes, the Group continues to date its consolidated financial statements as at 30 June and to refer to the accounting period as a year for reporting purposes.
Forward looking statements This document contains certain forward looking statements with respect to our financial condition, results of operations and business, and our strategy, plans and objectives.
These statements include, without limitation, those that express forecasts, expectations and projections, such as forecasts, expectations and projections with respect to new products and services, the potential for growth of free-to-air and pay television, fixed line telephony, broadband and bandwidth requirements, advertising growth, Direct-to-Home DTH customer growth, Over-the-top OTT customer growth, Multiroom, On Demand, NOW TV, Sky Go, Sky, Sky HD and other services, churn, revenue, profitability and margin growth, cash flow generation, programming costs, subscriber management and supply chain costs, administration costs and other costs, marketing expenditure, capital expenditure programmes and proposals for returning capital to shareholders.
52 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Glossary of terms Useful definitions Description Adjusted basic earnings per share EPS Adjusted profit after tax for the year divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares.
Adjusted operating profit Operating profit excluding exceptional items.
Adjusted operating margin is stated as a percentage of adjusted and margin revenue.
Adjusted profit for the year Profit for the year adjusted to remove exceptional items and related tax effects.
Adjusting items Items that arise from events or transactions that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group, but which management believes should be separately identified to help explain underlying performance.
ARPU Average Revenue Per User: the amount spent by the Groups residential customers in the quarter, divided by the average number of residential customers in the quarter, annualised.
Churn The number of total customers over a given period that terminate their subscription in its entirety, net of former customers who reinstated their subscription in that period where such reinstatement is within a 12-month period of the termination of their original subscription, expressed as an annualised percentage of total average customers for the period.
DTH Direct-to-Home: the transmission of satellite services and functionality with reception through a minidish.
DTH customer means a subscriber to one or more of our retailed packages of television channels made available via DTH.
EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation is calculated as operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
Free cash flow The amount of cash generated by Sky after meeting obligations for interest and tax, after all capital expenditure and net cash flows relating to joint ventures and associates.
Multiroom Installation of an additional set-top box in the household of an existing DTH customer.
Net debt Borrowings net of cash and cash equivalents, short-term deposits, and borrowings-related derivative financial instruments.
NOW TV The Groups internet streaming service available to anyone in the UK with an internet connection regardless of ISP.
This service is currently available on PC, Mac, the XBox 360, Playstation 3, YouView and Roku set-top boxes, and selected Android devices.
On Demand Skys On Demand service offering a selection of content from across the Sky platform available for customers to watch whenever they want.
Sky Go Skys retailed packages of television channels and on demand content made available via a broadband connection, including the version made available to mobile devices via a wireless or 3G connection.
Sky Go Extra Selected content included within Skys retailed packages of television channels and on demand made available to download, enabling customers to watch the content when and wherever they want, without the need for a broadband, wireless or 3G 4G connection.
Sky HD High Definition box with PVR functionality.
Sky Store Our pay-per-view, on demand movies rental service available via Sky On Demand and Sky Go.
Standalone home Skys retailed packages of broadband, talk and line rental when taken without a television subscription package.
communications Triple play Customers taking all three of TV, broadband and telephony.
Following the split of the News Corporation companies on 28 June 2013, News Corporation has been renamed Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 53 Annual Review 2013 Independent Auditors statement to the members of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc We have examined the summary financial statement for the year ended We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review 30 June 2013 which comprises the Summary Consolidated Income as described in the contents section, and consider the implications Statement, Summary Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements Summary Consolidated Balance Sheet, Summary Consolidated Cash Flow or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Statement, Summary Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 2008 3 issued by the Note 1, Summary Directors Report and the Summary Directors Auditing Practices Board.
Our report on the companys full annual financial Remuneration Report.
statements describes the basis of our audit opinion on those financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in statements, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Directors Report.
accordance with section 428 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our work has Opinion been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those In our opinion, the summary financial statement is consistent with the matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for full annual financial statements, the Directors Report and the Directors no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept Remuneration Report of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc for the year or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the ended 30 June 2013 and complies with the applicable requirements Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006, and the regulations for our audit report, or for the opinion we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor William Touche Senior Statutory Auditor The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review in accordance For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP with applicable United Kingdom law.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the London, United Kingdom summary financial statement within the Annual Review with the full annual 25 July 2013 financial statements, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006 and the regulations made thereunder.
54 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Shareholder information Annual General Meeting Electronic shareholder communication The Companys AGM will be held on 22 November 2013 at 11:00am at the In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Edinburgh International Conference Centre, The Exchange, Edinburgh EH3 8EE.
Companys articles of association, the Company is permitted to use its corporate website as the main way to communicate with shareholders, Financial calendar sending out Annual Reports only to those who have opted to receive a Results for the financial year ending 30 June 2014 will be published: paper copy.
This reduces our impact on the environment, minimises waste and reduces costs.
It also enables shareholders to keep updated 17 October 2013 with developments at Sky as they happen by accessing our website.
30 January 2014 1 May 2014 Shareholders who have opted to receive shareholder communications 25 July 2014 in paper form are encouraged to receive these electronically in future Provisional dates by registering at www.
Shareholders can also change their instructions at any time by contacting Equiniti Limited.
The Sky website Shareholders are encouraged to visit the Sky website sky.
com which has Dividends a wealth of information about the Company.
There is a section designed Shareholders can have their dividends paid directly into a UK bank specifically for investors at sky.
com corporate where investor and media or building society account with the tax voucher sent directly to information can be accessed.
This years Annual Report and Annual Review their registered address.
Please contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2091 and prior year documents can be viewed there.
The Company operates a consolidated tax voucher service for shareholders Share price information who have chosen to receive dividends directly into their bank account.
The Companys share price can be found on the Companys corporate A single consolidated tax voucher will be mailed by the end of November website at sky.
com corporate each year, to coincide with the final dividend payment.
Full details are available at corporate.
com Shareholder enquiries The Companys shareholder register is maintained by its Registrar, Equiniti.
ShareGift Information on how to manage your shareholdings can be found at Shareholders who only have a small number of shares whose value makes help.
The pages at this web address provide the following: it uneconomic to sell them may wish to consider donating them to charity Answers to commonly asked questions regarding shareholder through ShareGift, the independent charity share donation scheme registration: registered charity no.
Further information about ShareGift Links to downloadable forms, guidance notes, and Company history may be obtained from Equiniti or from ShareGift on 020 7930 3737 or at fact sheets: www.
There are no implications for capital gains tax purposes A choice of contact methods via email, phone, or writing.
no gain or loss on gifts of shares to charity and it is also possible to claim income tax relief.
Alternatively, shareholders can contact Equiniti in relation to all administrative enquiries relating to their shares, such as a change Shareholder fraud of personal details, the loss of a share certificate or an out-of-date Fraud is on the increase and many shareholders are targeted every year.
If you have any reason to believe that you may have been the target of a fraud, or attempted fraud in relation to your shareholding, please contact Shareholders can contact Equiniti at: Equiniti immediately.
For more information please see protect your Equiniti Limited shareholding in the shareholder information section of our website at Aspect House corporate.
com Spencer Road Lancing Companys registered office West Sussex Grant Way BN99 6DA Isleworth Middlesex Telephone: 0871 384 2030 Telephone number from outside the UK: 44 121 415 7047 TW7 5QD C alls to the above number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Telephone 0333 100 0333 Other telephony providers costs may vary.
Lines are open from 8:30am to 5:30pm Overseas 44 333 100 0333 Monday to Friday.
Company registration number 02247735 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 55 Annual Review 2013 Further information Accessibility If you would like advice regarding accessibility of this document, please contact the Accessible Customer Service team on 0844 241 0333 or TextPhone on 0844 241 0535.
56 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc This report is printed on Heaven 42 paper which is FSC Certified.
Pureprint are ISO14001 certified, Carbon Neutral, Alcohol Free, FSC and PEFC chain of custody certified.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 57 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Grant Way, Isleworth Middlesex TW7 5QD Telephone 0333 100 0333 Facsimile 0333 100 0444 sky.
