Business review Financial review Governance Shareholder information Glossary of terms Financial statements Annual Report 2013: Consolidated financial statements Consolidated financial statements Consolidated income statement for the year ended 30 June 2013 2013 2012 Notes m m Revenue 2 7,235 6,791 Operating expense 3 5,944 5,548 Operating profit 1,291 1,243 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 13 46 39 Investment income 4 28 18 Finance costs 4 108 111 Profit before tax 5 1,257 1,189 Taxation 7 278 283 Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 979 906 Earnings per share from profit for the year in pence Basic 8 60.7p 52.6p Diluted 8 59.7p 52.2p The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated income statement.
All results relate to continuing operations.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 30 June 2013 2013 2012 m m Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 979 906 Other comprehensive income Amounts recognised directly in equity Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 2 Gain on revaluation of available-for-sale investments 186 8 Loss gain on cash flow hedges 27 99 Tax on cash flow hedges 7 23 166 86 Amounts reclassified and reported in the income statement Loss on cash flow hedges 48 29 Tax on cash flow hedges 11 7 37 22 Other comprehensive income for the year net of tax 129 64 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 1,108 970 All results relate to continuing operations.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 63 Annual Report 2013: Consolidated financial statements Consolidated financial statements continued Consolidated balance sheet as at 30 June 2013 2013 2012 Notes m m Non-current assets Goodwill 10 999 956 Intangible assets 11 718 523 Property, plant and equipment 12 1,041 948 Investments in joint ventures and associates 13 164 156 Available-for-sale investments 14 422 228 Deferred tax assets 15 38 16 Programme distribution rights 16 17 Trade and other receivables 17 17 17 Derivative financial assets 21 360 390 3,776 3,234 Current assets Inventories 16 548 456 Trade and other receivables 17 591 621 Short-term deposits 21 595 710 Cash and cash equivalents 21 815 464 Derivative financial assets 21 20 24 2,569 2,275 Total assets 6,345 5,509 Current liabilities Borrowings 20 11 8 Trade and other payables 18 2,023 1,855 Current tax liabilities 176 189 Provisions 19 94 43 Derivative financial liabilities 21 13 3 2,317 2,098 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 20 2,909 2,398 Trade and other payables 18 63 27 Provisions 19 14 12 Derivative financial liabilities 21 29 29 Deferred tax liabilities 15 1 1 3,016 2,467 Total liabilities 5,333 4,565 Share capital 23 797 837 Share premium 24 1,437 1,437 Reserves 24 1,222 1,330 Total equity attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 24 1,012 944 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 6,345 5,509 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated balance sheet.
These consolidated financial statements of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc, registered number 02247735, have been approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 25 July 2013 and were signed on its behalf by: Jeremy Darroch Andrew Griffith Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 64 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Governance Shareholder information Glossary of terms Financial statements Annual Report 2013: Consolidated financial statements Consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 30 June 2013 2013 2012 Notes m m Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations 25 1,877 1,737 Interest received 29 17 Taxation paid 300 254 Net cash from operating activities 1,606 1,500 Cash flows from investing activities Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 43 39 Net funding to joint ventures and associates 4 6 Proceeds on disposal of an investment 4 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 203 228 Purchase of intangible assets 251 229 Purchase of subsidiaries net of cash and cash equivalents purchased 197 15 Purchase of available-for-sale investments 9 5 Decrease increase in short-term deposits 115 280 Net cash used in investing activities 502 724 Cash flows from financing activities Net proceeds from borrowings 498 Repayment of obligations under finance leases 1 1 Proceeds from disposal of shares in Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP 15 10 Purchase of own shares for ESOP 69 161 Purchase of own shares for cancellation 627 546 Interest paid 128 125 Dividends paid to shareholders 441 410 Net cash used in financing activities 753 1,233 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 351 457 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 464 921 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 815 464 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated cash flow statement.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 65 Annual Report 2013: Consolidated financial statements Consolidated financial statements continued Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 30 June 2013 AvailableTotal Share Share ESOP Hedging for-sale Other Retained shareholders capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserves earnings equity m m m m m m m m At 1 July 2011 876 1,437 107 14 157 358 1,700 1,035 Profit for the year 906 906 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 2 2 Revaluation of available-for-sale investments 8 8 Recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges 70 70 Tax on items taken directly to equity 16 16 Total comprehensive income for the year 54 8 2 906 970 Share-based payment 5 80 85 Tax on items taken directly to equity 10 10 Share buy-back programme see note 24 : Purchase of own shares for cancellation 39 39 546 546 Financial liability for close period purchases 10 10 Dividends 410 410 At 30 June 2012 837 1,437 112 68 165 399 1,850 944 Profit for the year 979 979 Revaluation of available-for-sale investments 186 186 Recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges 75 75 Tax on items taken directly to equity 18 18 Total comprehensive income for the year 57 186 979 1,108 Share-based payment 35 61 26 Tax on items taken directly to equity 8 8 Share buy-back programme see note 24 : Purchase of own shares for cancellation 40 40 617 617 Financial liability for close period purchases 16 16 Dividends 441 441 At 30 June 2013 797 1,437 147 11 351 439 1,876 1,012 For a description of the nature and purpose of each equity reserve, see note 24.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated statement of changes in equity.
66 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Governance Shareholder information Glossary of terms Financial statements Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements the Groups interest in an associate or joint venture has been reduced 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES to nil because the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in the British Sky Broadcasting Group plc the Company is a limited liability associate or joint venture, the Group only provides for additional losses company incorporated in the United Kingdom UK and registered in to the extent that it has incurred legal or constructive obligations to England and Wales.
The consolidated financial statements include the fund such losses, or where the Group has made payments on behalf of Company and its subsidiaries together, the Group and its interests the associate or joint venture.
Where the disposal of an investment in in associates and jointly-controlled entities.
an associate or joint venture is considered to be highly probable, the investment ceases to be equity accounted and, instead, is classified as a Statement of compliance held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS d Goodwill as adopted by the European Union EU, the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard IAS Business combinations that have occurred since 1 July 2004, the date Regulations.
In addition, the Group also complied with IFRS as issued of transition to IFRS the Transition Date, are accounted for by by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
applying the purchase method of accounting.
Following this method, goodwill is initially recognised on consolidation, representing the b Basis of preparation difference between the fair value cost of the business combination and the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going assets and liabilities assumed.
concern basis as set out in the Directors Report and on an historical cost basis, except for the remeasurement to fair value of financial In respect of business combinations that occurred prior to the instruments as described in the accounting policies below.
The Group Transition Date, goodwill has been included at the amounts has adopted the new accounting pronouncements which became recognised under the Groups UK Generally Accepted Accounting effective this year, none of which had any significant impact on the Principles UK GAAP accounting policies on the Transition Date.
On Groups results or financial position.
disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of profit or loss on The Group maintains a 52 or 53 week fiscal year ending on the Sunday disposal, except for goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP nearest to 30 June in each year.
In fiscal year 2013, this date was 30 prior to the Transition Date, which is not reinstated and is not included June 2013, this being a 52 week year fiscal year 2012: 1 July 2012, 52 in determining any subsequent gain or loss on disposal.
For convenience purposes, the Group continues to date its consolidated financial statements as at 30 June and to refer to the Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses and is tested, at accounting period as a year for reporting purposes.
The Group has least annually, for impairment, based on the recoverable amounts of the classified assets and liabilities as current when they are expected to cash generating unit to which the goodwill has been allocated.
Any be realised in, or intended for sale or consumption in, the normal impairment identified is recognised immediately in the income operating cycle of the Group.
statement and is not subsequently reversed.
The carrying amount of goodwill in respect of associates and joint ventures is included in the c Basis of consolidation carrying amount of the investment in the associate or joint venture.
Goodwill is tested for impairment in line with accounting policy i below.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists e Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment PPE when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits i. Intangible assets from its activities.
Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated Research expenditure is recognised in operating expense in the financial statements of the Company from the date control of the income statement as the expenditure is incurred.
Development subsidiary commences until the date that control ceases.
Intra-group expenditure relating to the application of research knowledge to plan balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and or design new or substantially improved products for sale or use expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in within the business is recognised as an intangible asset from the preparing the consolidated financial statements.
point at which it is probable that the Group has the intention and ability to generate future economic benefits from the development ii.
Associates and joint ventures expenditure, that the development is technically feasible and that the Associates are entities where the Group has significant influence, but subsequent expenditure can be measured reliably.
Any other not control or joint control, over the financial and operating policies of development expenditure is recognised in operating expense as the entity.
Joint ventures are those entities which are jointly incurred.
controlled by the Group under a contractual agreement with another party or parties.
Other intangible assets, which are acquired by the Group separately or through a business combination, are initially stated at cost or fair value, These consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of respectively, less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses, the total recognised gains and losses of associates and joint ventures other than those that are classified as held for sale, which are stated at using the equity method, from the date that significant influence or the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
joint control commences to the date that it ceases, based on present ownership interests and excluding the possible exercise of potential Amortisation of an intangible asset begins when the asset is available voting rights, less any impairment losses see accounting policy i.
When for use, and is charged to the income statement through operating British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 67 Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued recognition for accounting purposes as hedges, despite this being 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued their economic function.
Changes in the fair values of these expense on a straight-line basis over the intangible assets estimated derivatives are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The useful life, principally being a period between 1 and 25 years, unless Group does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative purposes.
the asset life is judged to be indefinite.
If the useful life is indefinite or i. Derivatives that qualify for cash flow hedge accounting the asset is not yet available for use, no amortisation is charged and Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated as cash an impairment test is carried out at least annually.
Other intangible flow hedges cash flow hedging instruments are initially recognised assets are tested for impairment in line with accounting policy i below.
In circumstances in which the derivative used ii.
Property, plant and equipment is a currency option, only changes in the intrinsic value of the option Owned PPE is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and any are designated under the cash flow hedging relationship, with all other impairment losses, see accounting policy i, other than those items movements being recorded immediately in the income statement.
that are classified as held for sale, which are stated at the lower of Amounts accumulated in the hedging reserve are subsequently carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
When an item of PPE recognised in the income statement in the periods in which the comprises major components having different useful economic lives, related hedged items are recognised in the income statement.
the components are accounted for as separate items of PPE.
At inception, the effectiveness of the Groups cash flow hedges is Assets held under finance leases, which confer rights and obligations assessed through a comparison of the principal terms of the hedging similar to those attached to owned assets, are treated as PPE see instrument and the underlying hedged item.
The ongoing accounting policy n. effectiveness of the Groups cash flow hedges is assessed using the dollar-offset approach, with the expected cash flows of hedging The cost of PPE, less estimated residual value, is depreciated in instruments being compared to the expected cash flows of the operating expense on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful hedged items.
This assessment is used to demonstrate that each life.
Land and assets that are not yet available for use are not hedge relationship is expected to be highly effective on inception, has depreciated.
Principal useful economic lives used for this purpose are: been highly effective in the period and is expected to continue to be Freehold buildings 25 to 40 years highly effective in future periods.
The measurement of hedge Equipment, furniture and fixtures 3 to 20 years ineffectiveness for the Groups hedging instruments is calculated Assets under finance leases and Lesser of lease term and the using the hypothetical derivative method, with the fair values of the leasehold improvements useful economic life of the asset hedging instruments being compared to those of the hypothetical derivative that would result in the designated cash flow hedge Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction achieving perfect hedge effectiveness.
The excess of the cumulative or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily change in the fair value of the actual hedging instrument compared to take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or that of the hypothetical derivative is deemed to be hedge sale, are added to the cost of those assets until such time as the ineffectiveness, which is recognised in the income statement.
assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
The Group uses a range of 80% to 125% for hedge effectiveness, in To the extent that the financing for a qualifying asset is part of the accordance with IAS 39, and any relationship which has effectiveness Groups general borrowings, the interest cost to be capitalised is outside this range is deemed to be ineffective and hedge accounting calculated based upon the weighted average cost of borrowing to the is suspended.
Group excluding the interest on any borrowings specific to any qualifying assets.
This is then applied to the expenditures on the asset.
When a cash flow hedging instrument expires, is terminated or is exercised, or if a hedge no longer meets the qualifying criteria for All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in the hedging to which they relate.
reserve at that time remains in the hedging reserve and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income f Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities statement, provided that the underlying transaction is still expected The Group uses a number of derivative financial instruments to hedge to occur.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, its exposure to fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates.
the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in the hedging reserve is immediately recognised in the income statement and all future Derivatives are held at fair value from the date on which a derivative changes in the fair value of the cash flow hedging instruments are contract is entered into.
Fair value is defined as the amount for which immediately recognised in the income statement.
an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between ii.
Derivatives that qualify for fair value hedge accounting knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is calculated with reference The Group has designated certain derivatives as fair value hedges as to the contracted value and the appropriate market value prevailing defined under IAS 39.
Any changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The carrying at the balance sheet date.
Certain derivatives held by the Group which values of the underlying hedged items are adjusted for the change in relate to highly probable forecast transactions hedged items, which meet qualifying criteria under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: the fair value of the hedged risks, with the gains or losses recognised Recognition and Measurement IAS 39, are designated as cash flow immediately in the income statement, offsetting the fair value movement on the derivative.
hedges or fair value hedges, and are subject to cash flow hedge accounting or fair value hedge accounting respectively.
Certain other Prospective effectiveness is assessed quarterly, through a comparison derivatives held by the Group do not meet the qualifying criteria for of the principal terms of the hedging instrument and the underlying 68 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Governance Shareholder information Glossary of terms Financial statements Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements hedged item, including the likelihood of default by the derivative ii.
The retrospective effectiveness of the Groups fair value Programme distribution rights are valued at the lower of cost and NRV, hedges is calculated quarterly using the cumulative dollar-offset net of the accumulated expense charged to the income statement to approach, with movements in the fair value of the hedged item being date.
compared to movements in the fair value of the hedging instrument.
The cost of the programme distribution rights is recognised in the The Group uses a range of 80% to 125% for hedge effectiveness and any operating expense line of the income statement on an ultimate relationship which has effectiveness outside this range is deemed to be revenue forecast basis, and is subject to regular impairment review.
ineffective and hedge accounting is suspended.
Set-top boxes, routers and related equipment iii.
Embedded derivatives Set-top boxes, routers and related equipment are valued at the lower Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host of cost and NRV, the latter of which reflects the value that the contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and business expects to realise from the set-top boxes and related equipment in the hands of the customer, and are recognised through characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with unrealised the operating expense line of the income statement.
Any subsidy is gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Embedded expensed on enablement, which is the process of activating the derivatives are carried on the balance sheet at fair value from the viewing card during installation, so as to enable a viewer to view inception of the host contract.
Changes in fair value are recognised encrypted broadcast services, and effectively represents the within the income statement during the period in which they arise.
completion of the installation process for new customers.
The amount recognised in the income statement is determined on a weighted g Inventories average cost basis, in accordance with IAS 2 Inventory.
Raw materials, consumables and goods held for resale i.
Acquired and commissioned television programme inventories for broadcast Raw materials, consumables and goods held for resale are valued at Programme inventories for broadcast are stated at the lower of cost the lower of cost and NRV.
The cost of raw materials, consumables and goods held for resale is recognised through the operating expense and net realisable value NRV, including, where applicable, line of the income statement on a first in first out basis.
estimated subscriber escalation payments, and net of the accumulated expense charged to the income statement to date.
h Financial assets and liabilities Such programming rights are included as inventories when the legally enforceable licence period commences and all of the following conditions Financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised at fair value plus have been met: a the cost of each programme is known or reasonably any directly attributable transaction costs.
At each balance sheet determinable: b the programme material has been accepted by the date, the Group assesses whether there is any objective evidence that Group in accordance with the conditions of the rights, and c the any financial asset is impaired.
Financial assets and liabilities are programme is available for its first showing.
Prior to being included in recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a inventories, the programming rights are classified as television party to the contractual provisions of the financial asset or liability.
programme rights not yet available for transmission and not recorded as Financial assets are derecognised from the balance sheet when the inventories on the Groups balance sheet and are instead disclosed as Groups contractual rights to the cash flows expire or the Group contractual commitments see note 26.
Payments made upon receipt of transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of the financial asset.
commissioned and acquired programming, but in advance of the legal Financial liabilities are derecognised from the Groups balance sheet right to broadcast the programmes, are treated as prepayments.
when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
The cost of television programme inventories is recognised in the operating expense line of the income statement, primarily as i. Available-for-sale investments described below: Equity investments intended to be held for an indefinite period are classified as available-for-sale investments.
They are carried at fair Sports 100% of the cost is recognised in the income statement on value, where this can be reliably measured, with movements in fair value the first broadcast or, where the rights are for multiple seasons or recognised directly in the available-for-sale reserve.
Where the fair value competitions, such rights are principally recognised on a straightcannot be reliably measured, the investment is carried at cost.
line basis across the seasons or competitions.
Any impairment losses in equity investments classified as availableNews 100% of the cost is recognised in the income statement on first broadcast.
for-sale investments are recognised in the income statement and are Movies The cost is recognised in the income statement on a not reversible through the income statement, and are determined straight-line basis over the period of broadcast rights.
with reference to the closing market share price at the balance sheet date.
Any subsequent increase in the fair value of the available-forGeneral entertainment The cost is recognised in the income statement based on the expected value of each planned broadcast.
sale investment above the impaired value will be recognised within the available-for-sale reserve.
Where programme broadcast rights are surplus to the Groups requirements, and no gain is anticipated through a disposal of the Available-for-sale investments are included within non-current assets rights, or where the programming will not be broadcast for any other unless the carrying value is expected to be recovered principally reason, a write-down to the income statement is made.
Any reversals through sale rather than continuing use, in which case they are of inventory write-downs are recognised as reductions in operating included within current assets.
On disposal, the difference between expense.
the carrying amount and the sum of the consideration received and British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 69 Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that any cumulative gain or loss that had previously been recognised reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and directly in reserves is recognised in the income statement.
risks specific to the asset.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the ii.
Trade and other receivables recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset Trade and other receivables are non-derivative financial assets with belongs.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating fixed or determinable payments and, where no stated interest rate is units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill applicable, are measured at the original invoice amount, if the effect allocated to those units, and then to reduce the carrying amount of of discounting is immaterial.
Where discounting is material, trade and other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
other receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
An allowance account is maintained to reduce the An impairment loss for an individual asset or cash generating unit will carrying value of trade and other receivables for impairment losses be reversed if there has been a change in estimates used to identified from objective evidence, with movements in the allowance determine the recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was account, either from increased impairment losses or reversals of recognised and is only reversed to the extent that the assets carrying impairment losses, being recognised in the income statement.
amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss iii.
Cash and cash equivalents had been recognised.
Impairment of goodwill is not reversed.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, bank accounts, deposits receivable on demand and deposits with maturity dates of j Provisions three months or less from the date of inception.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and which form an integral part of the Provisions are recognised when the Group has a probable, present Groups cash management are also included as a component of cash legal or constructive obligation to make a transfer of economic and cash equivalents where offset conditions are met.
benefits as a result of past events where a reliable estimate is available.
The amounts recognised represent the Groups best iv.
Short-term deposits estimate of the transfer of benefits that will be required to settle the This includes short-term deposits which have maturity dates of more obligation as of the balance sheet date.
Provisions are discounted if than three months from inception.
These deposits are initially the effect of the time value of money is material using a pre-tax recognised at fair value, and then carried at amortised cost through market rate adjusted for risks specific to the liability.
the income statement less any allowance for impairment losses.
v. Trade and other payables k ESOP reserve Trade and other payables are non-derivative financial liabilities and Where the Company or its subsidiaries purchase the Companys own are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
equity shares, the cost of those shares, including any attributable Trade and other payables with no stated interest rate are measured transaction costs, is presented within the ESOP reserve as a at the original invoice amount if the effect of discounting is deduction in shareholders equity in the consolidated financial immaterial.
Borrowings Borrowings are recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue l Revenue recognition costs.
Finance charges, including any premium payable on settlement Revenue, which excludes value added tax and transactions between or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals Group companies, represents the gross inflow of economic benefit basis in the income statement using the effective interest method from Skys operating activities.
The Groups main sources of revenue and are added to the carrying amount of the underlying instrument to are recognised as follows: which they relate, to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Retail subscription revenue, including subscriptions for TV services, Sky Broadband and Sky Talk services, is recognised as the goods or i Impairment services are provided, net of any discount given.
Pay-per-view revenue is recognised when the event or movie is viewed.
At each balance sheet date, in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Wholesale revenue is recognised as the services are provided to Assets, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of all its assets cable and other retailers and is based on the number of subscribers excluding inventories see accounting policy g, non-current assets taking the Sky channels, as reported to the Group by the cable and classified as held for sale, financial assets see accounting policy h other retailers, and the applicable rate card or contract.
and deferred taxation see accounting policy o to determine whether Advertising sales revenue is recognised when the advertising is there is any indication that any of those assets have suffered an broadcast.
Revenue generated from airtime sales, where Sky acts as impairment loss.
an agent on behalf of third parties, is recognised on a net An impairment is recognised in the income statement whenever the commission basis.
carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its Installation, hardware and service revenue is recognised in the recoverable amount.
An impairment of an investment in a joint income statement when the goods and services are activated.
venture or associate is recognised within the share of profit from joint Other revenue principally includes income from Sky Bet, technical ventures and associates.
The recoverable amount is the greater of net platform services, third party set-top box sales, public access WiFi selling price, defined as the fair value less costs to sell, and value in services and programme distribution fees.
With the exception of 70 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Governance Shareholder information Glossary of terms Financial statements Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Sky Bet revenue, other revenue is recognised, net of any discount When the Group is a lessee, assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value on the date of given, when the relevant goods or service are provided.
Sky Bet revenue is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 and represents acquisition, or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease income in the period for betting and gaming activities, defined as payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the amounts staked by customers less winnings paid out.
balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and receivable.
When the Group sells a set-top box, installation or service reductions of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of and a subscription in one bundled transaction, the total consideration interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
from the arrangement is allocated to each element based on their The lease expense arising from operating leases is charged to the relative fair values.
The fair value of each individual element is income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
determined using vendor specific or third party evidence.
The amount Benefits received and receivable as incentives to enter into operating of revenue the Group recognises for delivered elements is limited to leases are recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
o Taxation, including deferred taxation m Employee benefits The Groups liability for current tax is based on taxable profit for the Wages, salaries, social security contributions, bonuses payable and year, and is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or non-monetary benefits for current employees are recognised in the substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
income statement as the employees services are rendered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised using the balance The Group provides pensions to eligible employees through defined sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between contribution schemes.
The amount charged to the income statement the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet and in the year represents the cost of contributions payable by the Group the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable to the schemes in exchange for employee services rendered in that profit.
Temporary differences arising from goodwill and the initial year.
The assets of the schemes are held independently of the Group.
recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting profit Termination benefits are recognised as a liability when, and only when, nor taxable profit are not provided for.
Deferred tax liabilities are the Group has a demonstrable commitment to terminate the recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments employment of an employee or group of employees before the normal in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary retirement date or as the result of an offer to encourage voluntary redundancy.
difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or employees which must be measured at fair value and recognised as an settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax expense in the income statement, with a corresponding increase in rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance equity.
The fair values of these payments are measured at the dates sheet date.
of grant using option-pricing models, taking into account the terms The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each and conditions upon which the awards are granted.
The fair value is recognised over the period during which employees become balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect an amount that is unconditionally entitled to the awards, subject to the Groups probable to be realised based on the weight of all available evidence.
estimate of the number of awards which will be forfeited, either due to Deferred tax is calculated at the rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
employees leaving the Group prior to vesting or due to non-market based performance conditions not being met.
Where an award has Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Deferred tax is market-based performance conditions, the fair value of the award is charged or credited in the income statement, except where it relates adjusted for the probability of achieving these via the option pricing to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the model.
The total amount recognised in the income statement as an deferred tax is also included within equity.
Deferred tax assets and expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards that vest, liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off except where forfeiture is due to the failure to meet market-based current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate performance measures.
In the event of a cancellation, whether by the to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group Group or by a participating employee, the compensation expense that intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
would have been recognised over the remainder of the vesting period is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
p Distributions to equity shareholders Dividends are recognised in the retained earnings reserve in the year n Leases in which they are declared.
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the The cost of repurchasing the Groups own equity shares for lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to cancellation share buy-backs is recorded in retained earnings.
In ownership of the asset to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as addition, the nominal cost of shares repurchased is deducted from operating leases.
share capital and a matching credit is recorded in the capital When the Group is a lessor, sub-lease income from operating leases is redemption reserve.
recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 71 Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities effective 1 January 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 2013 q Earnings per share IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement effective 1 January 2013 Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits effective 1 January Basic earnings or loss per share represents the profit or loss for the 2013 year, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in Amendments to IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements effective issue during the year, excluding the weighted average number of 1 January 2013 ordinary shares purchased by the Group and held in the Groups ESOP Amendments to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint during the year to satisfy employee share awards.
Ventures effective 1 January 2013 Diluted earnings or loss per share represents the profit or loss for the Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures year, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities effective issue during the year, excluding the weighted average number of 1 January 2013 ordinary shares purchased by the Group and held in the Groups ESOP Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 Consolidated Financial during the year to satisfy employee share awards, plus the weighted Statements, Joint Arrangements and Disclosure of Interests in average number of dilutive shares resulting from share options where Other Entities: Transition Guidance effective 1 January 2013 the inclusion of these would not be antidilutive.
Amendments to IAS 36 Impairment of Assets effective 1 January 2014 r Foreign currency translation Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities effective The Groups presentational currency is pounds sterling.
Trading 1 January 2014 activities denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in pounds Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and sterling at the applicable monthly exchange rates.
Monetary assets, Measurement Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge liabilities and commitments denominated in foreign currencies at the Accounting effective 1 January 2014 balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange at that IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2015 date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to pounds sterling at the exchange rate The Directors are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of prevailing at the date of the initial transaction.
Gains and losses from these standards, amendments and interpretations in future periods.
the retranslation of assets and liabilities are included net in profit for the year, except for exchange differences arising on non-monetary u Critical accounting policies and the use of judgement assets and liabilities where the changes in fair value are recognised Certain accounting policies are considered to be critical to the Group.
An accounting policy is considered to be critical if, in the Directors The assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are judgement, its selection or application materially affects the Groups translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Below is a summary of the Groups critical Income and expense items are translated at the applicable monthly accounting policies and details of the key areas of judgement that are average exchange rates.
Any exchange differences arising are exercised in their application.
classified as equity and transferred to other reserves.
Revenue see note 2 Selecting the appropriate timing for, and amount of, revenue to be s Reportable segments recognised requires judgement.
This may involve estimating the fair IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires the segment information value of consideration before it is received.
When the Group sells a presented in the financial statements to be that which is used set-top box, installation or service and a subscription in one bundled internally by the chief operating decision maker to evaluate the transaction, the total consideration from the arrangement is performance of the business and decide how to allocate resources.
allocated to each element based on its relative fair value.
The fair The Group has identified the Board of Directors as its chief operating value of each individual element is determined using vendor specific decision maker and as the internal reporting reviewed by the Board or third party evidence.
The amount of revenue the Group recognises focuses on the operations of the Group as a whole and does not for delivered elements is limited to the cash received.
identify individual operating segments, the Group has only one ii.
Taxation, including deferred taxation see notes 7 and 15 reportable segment.
The Groups tax charge is the sum of the total current and deferred tax charges.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge t Accounting Standards, interpretations and amendments to necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect existing standards that are not yet effective of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined The Group has not yet adopted certain new standards, amendments until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, as and interpretations to existing standards, which have been published appropriate, through a formal legal process.
but are only effective for our accounting periods beginning on or after Provisions for tax contingencies require management to make 1 July 2013 or later periods.
These new pronouncements are listed judgements and estimates in relation to tax audit issues and below: exposures.
Amounts provided are based on managements IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements effective 1 January interpretation of country-specific tax law and the likelihood of 2013 settlement.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements effective 1 January 2013 the tax positions will be sustained.
Once considered to be probable, 72 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Governance Shareholder information Glossary of terms Financial statements Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements management reviews each material tax benefit to assess whether a over which to amortise general entertainment programming.
This assessment requires the Group to form an expectation of the number provision should be taken against full recognition of the benefit on the basis of the likely resolution of the issue through negotiation and of times a programme will be broadcast, and the relative value or litigation.
In order to perform this assessment, the Group considers the following factors: The amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements in respect of each matter are derived from the Groups best estimation The period over which the programme is expected to be shown on and judgement, as described above.
However, the inherent the Groups channels.
This is usually based on a combination of the uncertainty regarding the outcome of these items means the eventual actual period specified in the contract for the programme rights, resolution could differ from the provision and in such event the Group and the initial expectation of when repeat broadcasts will be would be required to make an adjustment in a subsequent period scheduled.
which could have a material impact on the Groups profit and loss and The alternative programming available to the Group for scheduling or cash position.
This consideration provides the most appropriate information in order to estimate how frequently individual The key area of judgement in respect of deferred tax accounting is the programmes will be shown during the period in which the Group assessment of the expected timing and manner of realisation or holds their broadcast rights.
settlement of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities held at The potential benefits associated with scheduling programming.
In particular, assessment is required of Certain high-profile or high-quality programming titles have whether it is probable that there will be suitable future taxable profits additional value to the Group, as they attract new TV customers against which any deferred tax assets can be utilised.
and encourage retention of existing TV customers.
Goodwill see note 10 programmes are able to retain more value throughout their Judgement is required in determining the fair value of identifiable broadcast runs than would be indicated when considering the expected viewing numbers alone.
assets, liabilities and contingent assets and liabilities assumed in a Expectations as to the number of viewers a programme is likely to business combination and the fair value of the consideration payable.
Calculating the fair values involves the use of significant estimates achieve for each individual broadcast over the contractual and assumptions, including expectations about future cash flows, broadcast period.
The number of viewers per broadcast directly influences advertising revenue for channels, although this discount rates and the lives of assets following purchase.
consideration is partly influenced by the Groups assessment of the Judgement is also required in identifying the cash generating units to potential impact of the publicly available information on its which the goodwill is associated for the purposes of goodwill competitors scheduling intentions against planned broadcasts.
Identification of cash generating units involves an assessment of whether assets or groups of assets generate cash flows that are largely independent of other assets or groups of assets.
Goodwill is then allocated to each identified cash generating unit that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combinations from which goodwill has arisen.
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment see notes 11 and 12 The assessment of the useful economic lives of these assets requires judgement.
Depreciation and amortisation is charged to the income statement based on the useful economic life selected.
This assessment requires estimation of the period over which the Group will benefit from the assets.
Determining whether the carrying amount of these assets has any indication of impairment also requires judgement.
If an indication of impairment is identified, further judgement is required to assess whether the carrying amount can be supported by the net present value of future cash flows forecast to be derived from the asset.
This forecast involves cash flow projections and selecting the appropriate discount rate.
Assessing whether assets meet the required criteria for initial capitalisation requires judgement.
This requires a determination of whether the assets will result in future benefits to the Group.
In particular, internally generated intangible assets must be assessed during the development phase to identify whether the Group has the ability and intention to complete the development successfully.
v. Programming inventory for broadcast see note 16 The key area of accounting for programming inventory for broadcast that requires judgement is the assessment of the appropriate profile British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 73 Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
REVENUE 2013 2012 m m Retail subscription 5,951 5,593 Wholesale subscription 396 351 Advertising 440 440 Installation, hardware and service 87 98 Other 361 309 7,235 6,791 Revenue arises from goods and services provided to the UK, with the exception of 461 million 2012: 418 million which arises from services provided to other countries.
OPERATING ExPENSE 2013 2012 m m Programming 2,487 2,298 Direct networks 686 676 Marketing 1,117 1,064 Subscriber management and supply chain 673 621 Transmission, technology and fixed networks 405 395 Administration 576 494 5,944 5,548 Included within operating expenses for the year ended 30 June 2013 are: Credit of 32 million relating to a credit note received following an Ofcom determination.
This credit has been recognised within direct networks.
Credit of 33 million relating to the final settlement of disputes with a former manufacturer of set-top boxes, net of associated costs and including an impairment of 6 million in relation to associated intangible assets.
This credit has been recognised within subscriber management and supply chain.
Costs of 31 million relating to the one-off upgrade of set-top boxes.
The costs have been recognised within subscriber management and supply chain.
Costs of 25 million relating to a programme to offer wireless connectors to selected Sky Movies customers.
Costs of 15 million relating to the acquisition and integration of the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business, including amortisation of 4 million in relation to associated intangible assets.
The costs have been recognised as follows: 3 million within direct networks 2 million within subscriber management and supply chain 3 million within transmission, technology and fixed networks 7 million within administration.
Costs of 33 million relating to a corporate efficiency programme including an impairment of 6 million in relation to associated intangible and tangible assets.
The costs have been recognised as follows: 29 million within administration.
1 million within programming 1 million within marketing 1 million within subscriber management and supply chain 1 million within transmission, technology and fixed networks.
Included within operating expenses for the year ended 30 June 2012 are: Credit of 31 million relating to the News Corporation subsequently renamed Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. proposal in 2011 consisting of costs incurred offset by the receipt of the break fee.
This credit has been recognised within administration.
Costs of 11 million which comprise severance payments relating to approximately 35 senior roles as part of a restructuring initiative to improve operating efficiency.
The costs have been recognised within administration.
74 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Governance Shareholder information Glossary of terms Financial statements Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements 4.
INVESTmENT INCOmE AND FINANCE COSTS 2013 2012 m m Investment income Interest on cash, cash equivalents and short-term deposits 9 14 Dividends received from available-for-sale investments 19 4 28 18 2013 2012 m m Finance costs Interest payable and similar charges i 743 million 750 million Revolving Credit Facilities RCF 2 8 Guaranteed Notes see note 20 122 115 Finance lease interest 7 7 131 130 Other finance income expense Remeasurement of borrowings and borrowings-related derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting 22 20 Remeasurement of other derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting 1 Loss gain arising on derivatives in a designated fair value hedge accounting relationship 34 47 Gain loss arising on adjustment for hedged item in a designated fair value hedge accounting relationship 36 48 23 19 108 111 i Included in RCF costs for the year ended 30 June 2012 is a write-off of 5 million relating to the facility fee on the 750 million RCF which has now been replaced with the 743 million RCF see note 20.
Borrowing costs included in the cost of qualifying assets during the year arose on the general borrowing pool and are calculated by applying a capitalisation rate of 5.2% 2012: 5.4% to expenditure on such assets.
The amount capitalised in the current year amounted to 2 million 2012: 1 million.
PROFIT BEFORE TAxATION Profit before taxation is stated after charging: 2013 2012 m m Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 1,992 1,854 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 176 179 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 202 165 Rentals on operating leases and similar arrangements 51 50 Consolidated non-current assets outside the UK were 8 million 2012: 2 million.
Foreign exchange Foreign exchange losses recognised in the income statement during the year amounted to 1 million 2012: gains of 2 million.
Audit fees An analysis of auditors remuneration is as follows: 2013 2012 m m Total audit fees 1 1 Total non-audit fees 1 1 Total auditor remuneration 2 2 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts were 1.2 million 2012: 1.1 million and fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation were 0.1 million 2012: 0.3 million.
Amounts paid to the auditor for non-audit fees include audit related services of 0.3 million 2012: 0.3 million, taxation services of 0.3 million 2012: 0.3 million, other assurance services of 0.3 million 2012: 0.1 million, other advisory services of nil 2012: 0.1 million and transaction services of 0.2 million 2012: nil.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 75 Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
EmPLOYEE BENEFITS AND KEY mANAGEmENT COmPENSATION a Group employee benefits 2013 2012 m m Wages and salaries 781 687 Social security costs 101 78 i Costs of employee share option schemes 80 66 ii Contributions to the Groups pension schemes 27 26 989 857 i An 80 million charge relates to equity-settled share-based payments 2012: 66 million charge.
ii The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes.
The pension charge for the year represents the cost of contributions payable by the Group to the schemes during the year.
The amount payable to the schemes by the Group at 30 June 2013 was 2 million 2012: 5 million.
The average monthly number of full-time equivalent persons including temporary employees employed by the Group during the year was as follows: 2013 2012 Number Number Channels and services 2,701 2,466 Customer service, sales and marketing 11,943 11,087 Transmission and technology 3,651 3,204 Management and administration 1,118 1,180 19,413 17,937 There are approximately 523 2012: 506 temporary staff included within the average number of full-time equivalent persons employed by the Group.
b Key management compensation see note 28d 2013 2012 m m Short-term employee benefits 6 6 Share-based payments 10 7 16 13 Post-employment benefits were less than 1 million 2012: less than 1 million.
The amounts disclosed for key management compensation are included within the disclosures in note 6 a.
TAxATION a Taxation recognised in the income statement 2013 2012 m m Current tax expense Current year 332 303 Adjustment in respect of prior years 44 33 Total current tax charge 288 270 Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences 20 6 Adjustment in respect of prior years 10 7 Total deferred tax credit charge 10 13 Taxation 278 283 Taxation relates to a 275 million UK corporation tax charge 2012: 280 million and 3 million overseas corporation tax charge 2012: 3 million.
b Taxation recognised directly in equity 2013 2012 m m Current tax credit relating to share-based payments 2 14 Deferred tax credit charge relating to share-based payments 6 24 Deferred tax credit charge relating to cash flow hedges 18 16 26 26 76 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Governance Shareholder information Glossary of terms Financial statements Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements c Reconciliation of effective tax rate The tax expense for the year is lower 2012: lower than the expense that would have been charged using the blended rate of corporation tax in the UK 23.75% applied to profit before tax.
The applicable enacted or substantively enacted effective rate of UK corporation tax for the year was 23.75% 2012: 25.5%.
The differences are explained below: 2013 2012 m m Profit before tax: 1,257 1,189 Profit before tax multiplied by blended rate of corporation tax in the UK of 23.75% 2012: 25.5% 299 303 Effects of: Net effect of non-taxable non-deductible items 13 3 Deferred tax write-off following tax rate change 2 Adjustments in respect of prior years 34 25 Taxation 278 283 8.
EARNINGS PER SHARE The weighted average number of shares for the year was: 2013 2012 Millions of Millions of shares shares Ordinary shares 1,633 1,731 ESOP trust ordinary shares 19 10 Basic shares 1,614 1,721 Dilutive ordinary shares from share options 26 16 Diluted shares 1,640 1,737 The calculation of diluted earnings per share excludes no share options 2012: less than 1 million which could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future, but which have been excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as they are anti-dilutive in the year.
Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit for the year into the weighted average number of shares for the year.
In order to provide a measure of underlying performance, management have chosen to present an adjusted profit for the year which excludes items that may distort comparability.
Such items arise from events or transactions that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group but which management believes should be separately identified to help explain underlying performance.
2013 2012 m m Reconciliation from profit for the year to adjusted profit for the year Profit for the year 979 906 Credit received following final settlement of disputes with a former manufacturer of set-top boxes see note 3 33 Costs relating to a corporate efficiency programme see note 3 33 Credit received following an Ofcom determination see note 3 32 Costs relating to one-off upgrade of set-top boxes see note 3 31 Costs relating to programme to offer wireless connectors to selected Sky Movies customers see note 3 25 Costs relating to the acquisition and integration of the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business see note 3 15 Net recovery of costs in relation to News Corporation subsequently renamed Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. proposal see note 3 31 Costs relating to a restructuring exercise see note 3 11 RCF fee write-off see note 4 5 Remeasurement of all derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting and hedge ineffectiveness see note 4 23 19 Profit on disposal of joint venture see note 13 9 7 Tax adjusting items and the tax effect of above items 17 10 Adjusted profit for the year 969 875 2013 2012 pence pence Earnings per share from profit for the year Basic 60.7p 52.6p Diluted 59.7p 52.2p Adjusted earnings per share from adjusted profit for the year Basic 60.0p 50.8p Diluted 59.1p 50.4p British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 77 Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9.
DIVIDENDS 2013 2012 m m Dividends declared and paid during the year 2011 Final dividend paid: 14.54p per ordinary share 253 2012 Interim dividend paid: 9.20p per ordinary share 157 2012 Final dividend paid: 16.20p per ordinary share 265 2013 Interim dividend paid: 11.00p per ordinary share 176 441 410 The 2013 final dividend proposed is 19.0 pence per ordinary share being 299 million.
The dividend was not declared at the balance sheet date and is therefore not recognised as a liability as at 30 June 2013.
Dividends are paid between Group companies out of profits available for distribution subject to, inter alia, the provisions of the companies articles of association and the Companies Act 2006.
The ESOP has waived its rights to dividends.
GOODWILL m Carrying value At 1 July 2011 944 Purchase of Acetrax AG 12 At 30 June 2012 956 Purchase of O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business 49 Other 6 At 30 June 2013 999 Goodwill has principally arisen from the Groups purchases of the Sports Internet Group SIG, British Interactive Broadcasting BiB, Easynets UK broadband network assets and residential activities, 365 Media, Amstrad, Living TV, The Cloud and the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business.
Goodwill, allocated by cash generating unit, is analysed as follows: 2013 2012 m m i Broadcast 850 807 ii Betting and gaming 149 149 999 956 Impairment reviews were performed on these goodwill balances at 30 June 2013, which did not indicate impairment.
The Broadcast unit includes intangibles with indefinite lives of 25 million 2012: 25 million.
Recoverable amounts for the cash generating units were calculated on the basis of value in use or fair value less costs to sell as appropriate, using cash flows calculated for the next five years as forecast by management.
A long-term growth rate of 3% was applied in order to extrapolate cash flow projections beyond this period.
The cash flows of the Broadcast unit were discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 8% 2012: 8% and the cash flows of the Betting and gaming unit were discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 10% 2012: 8%.
In determining the applicable discount rate, management applied judgement in respect of several factors, which included, inter alia: assessing the risk attached to future cash flows and making reference to the capital asset pricing model the CAPM.
Management gave consideration to the selection of appropriate inputs to the CAPM, which included the risk free rate, the equity risk premium and a measure of systematic risk.
Management also considers capital structure and an appropriate cost of debt in arriving at the discount rate.
i Broadcast The Broadcast unit includes goodwill arising from the purchase of BiB, Easynets UK broadband network assets and residential activities, 365 Medias content activities, Amstrad, Living TV, The Cloud and the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business.
The key assumptions, on which forecast five year cash flows of the Broadcast unit were based include the number of gross customer additions, the rate of churn, the average revenue per user, levels of programming spend, acquisition costs per customer and anticipated changes in the product mix and marketing mix of the broadcast activities.
The values assigned to each of these assumptions were determined based on the extrapolation of historical trends within the Group, and external information on expected future trends in the UK and Ireland entertainment and communications industry.
ii Betting and gaming The Betting and gaming unit includes goodwill arising from the purchase of SIG and 365 Medias betting activities.
The key assumptions on which forecast five year cash flows were based include the number of weekly unique users, the number of bets placed per user per week, the average stake per user per week and the average spend per active user per week.
The values assigned to each of these assumptions were determined based on an extrapolation of historical trends within the unit, and external information on expected future trends in betting and gaming.
78 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Governance Shareholder information Glossary of terms Financial statements Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements 11.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS Internally generated Acquired Software Customer intangible intangible Internally development contracts assets assets generated external and related Other not yet not yet intangible and software customer intangible available available assets licences relationships assets for use for use Total m m m m m m m Cost At 1 July 2011 214 435 60 183 26 92 1,010 Additions from business combinations 3 1 4 Additions 45 33 57 56 31 222 Disposals 35 64 17 116 Transfers 28 20 28 20 At 30 June 2012 252 427 60 224 54 103 1,120 Additions from business combinations 137 2 139 Additions 102 45 66 25 20 258 Disposals 15 6 2 7 30 Transfers 47 59 47 59 At 30 June 2013 386 525 197 292 30 57 1,487 Amortisation At 1 July 2011 103 320 6 119 548 Amortisation 54 52 3 56 165 Disposals 35 64 17 116 At 30 June 2012 122 308 9 158 597 Amortisation 72 55 7 57 191 Disposals 15 6 2 7 30 Impairments 2 2 7 11 At 30 June 2013 181 357 16 215 769 Carrying amounts At 1 July 2011 111 115 54 64 26 92 462 At 30 June 2012 130 119 51 66 54 103 523 At 30 June 2013 205 168 181 77 30 57 718 In order to improve the presentation of the Groups intangible assets Customer contracts and related customer relationships have been disaggregated from the Other intangible assets category and Software licences have been aggregated with the Software development external category.
The prior year comparatives have been re-presented accordingly.
The Groups internally generated intangible assets relate to software development associated with our customer management systems and set-top boxes.
The Groups other intangible assets mainly include copyright licences, customer lists and relationships, connection fees and patents and brands acquired in business combinations.
The estimated future amortisation charge on intangible assets with finite lives for each of the next five years is set out below.
It is likely that future amortisation will vary from the figures below as the estimate does not include the impact of any future investments, disposals or capital expenditure.
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 m m m m m Estimated amortisation charge 235 162 111 50 44 For intangible assets acquired in business combinations in the year, the average amortisation period is 6 years 2012: 9 years.
Other intangible assets include certain assets with indefinite useful lives.
The carrying value of these assets is 25 million 2012: 25 million.
An impairment review of the assets is performed annually as part of the Groups review of the Broadcast CGU note 10.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 79 Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EqUIPmENT Equipment, Assets Freehold furniture not yet land and Leasehold and available i ii buildings improvements fixtures for use Total m m m m m Cost At 1 July 2011 332 59 1,139 30 1,560 Foreign exchange movements 1 1 Additions 1 192 38 231 Disposals 1 160 161 Transfers 1 40 41 At 30 June 2012 333 59 1,210 27 1,629 Additions from business combinations 25 25 Additions 1 1 194 48 244 Disposals 2 64 66 Transfers 22 22 At 30 June 2013 334 58 1,387 53 1,832 Depreciation At 1 July 2011 31 22 611 664 Foreign exchange movements 1 1 Depreciation 10 6 163 179 Disposals 1 1 159 161 At 30 June 2012 40 27 614 681 Depreciation 6 8 160 174 Disposals 2 64 66 Impairments 1 1 2 At 30 June 2013 46 34 711 791 Carrying amounts At 1 July 2011 301 37 528 30 896 At 30 June 2012 293 32 596 27 948 At 30 June 2013 288 24 676 53 1,041 i The amounts shown include assets held under finance leases with a net book value of 13 million 2012: 5 million.
The cost of these assets was 20 million 2012: 11 million and the accumulated depreciation was 7 million 2012: 6 million.
Depreciation charged during the year on such assets was 1 million 2012: 1 million.
ii Depreciation was not charged on 88 million of land 2012: 88 million.
INVESTmENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES A list of the Groups significant investments in joint ventures and associates, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
The movement in joint ventures and associates during the year was as follows: 2013 2012 m m Share of net assets: At 1 July 156 151 Movement in net assets Funding, net of repayments 4 6 i Dividends received 43 39 i Share of profits 46 39 i Disposal of joint venture 1 3 Exchange differences on translation of foreign joint ventures and associates 2 2 At 30 June 164 156 i During the year, the Group disposed of its interest in MUTV Limited.
Included in share of profits for the year is a profit on disposal of 9 million.
Consideration received on the sale of 10 million is included within dividends received.
During the prior year, the Group disposed of its interest in Chelsea Digital Media Limited.
Included in share of profits for the year is a profit on disposal of 7 million.
Consideration received on the sale to date of 6 million is included within dividends received.
The Groups share of any capital commitments and contingent liabilities of associates and joint ventures is shown in note 26.
80 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Governance Shareholder information Glossary of terms Financial statements Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements a Investments in joint ventures Representing the Groups share of each joint venture: 2013 2012 m m Non-current assets 19 29 Current assets 71 75 Current liabilities 32 32 Non-current liabilities 40 46 Shareholders equity 18 26 Revenue 90 84 Expense 70 69 Taxation 5 4 Share of profit from joint ventures 15 11 b Investments in associates Representing a 100% share of each associate: 2013 2012 m m Total assets 308 256 Total liabilities 86 78 Shareholders equity 222 178 i Revenue 325 296 i Profit 107 105 i Revenue and profit numbers are provided for the full year ended 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2012.
AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE INVESTmENTS 2013 2012 m m Investment in ITV at cost 946 946 Impairment of ITV investment 807 807 Realised gain on ITV investment 115 115 Part disposal of ITV investment 196 196 Unrealised gain on ITV investment 351 165 Fair value of ITV investment 409 223 Other investments at cost 13 5 422 228 On 17 November 2006, the Group acquired 696 million shares in ITV, at a price of 135 pence per share, representing 17.9% of the issued capital of ITV, for a total consideration of 946 million including fees and taxes.
The Groups investment in ITV is carried at fair value.
The fair value is determined with reference to its equity share price at the balance sheet date.
In accordance with IFRS, the Group has recognised impairment losses in the years ended 30 June 2008 and 30 June 2009, the first of which was recorded at 31 December 2007 due to the significant and prolonged decline in the equity share price.
The latest impairment loss was determined with reference to ITVs closing equity share price of 20.0 pence at 27 March 2009 bringing the cumulative impairment loss to 807 million.
In line with IFRS, all subsequent increases in the fair value of the ITV investment above this impaired value have been recorded in the available-for-sale reserve.
On 8 February 2010, the Group placed a shareholding of 10.4% in ITV in accordance with the final undertakings given by the Group to the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills relating to the Groups investment in ITV.
The placing by the Group of 404,362,095 ITV shares at 48.5 pence per share resulted in aggregate consideration of 196 million.
A profit of 115 million was realised on disposal being the excess of the consideration above the impaired value of the shares.
The Group continues to hold just under 7.5% of the shares in ITV.
The disposal was exempt from tax under the provisions of the Substantial Shareholding Exemption SSE and as such the SSE provisions prevent any capital loss arising for tax purposes.
The Group holds certain unquoted equity investments that are carried at cost less impairment.
The fair value of these investments is not considered to differ significantly from their carrying value.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 81 Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
DEFERRED TAx i Recognised deferred tax assets liabilities Share-based Financial Accelerated Short-term payments instruments tax temporary temporary temporary depreciation Tax losses differences differences differences Total m m m m m m At 1 July 2011 14 1 6 58 10 69 Charge to income 1 6 5 12 Credit to equity 23 18 41 Acquisition of subsidiaries 1 1 Effect of change in tax rate Income 2 1 1 Equity 1 2 1 At 30 June 2012 12 1 6 26 30 15 Charge credit to income 2 1 18 5 10 Credit to equity 6 18 24 Acquisition of subsidiaries 12 12 Effect of change in tax rate Income 1 1 1 1 At 30 June 2013 1 5 49 16 37 Deferred tax assets have been recognised at 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2012 on the basis that, from managements current forecast of the Groups entities, it is probable that there will be suitable taxable profits against which these assets can be utilised.
Tax losses are treated as unrecognised deferred tax assets if it is not considered probable that suitable future taxable profits will arise.
During the year, any tax losses suffered by UK entities have been relieved against taxable profits in other UK entities in the Group.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which they reverse.
The rate enacted or substantively enacted for the relevant periods of reversal is 23% as at 30 June 2013 2012: 24%.
The Government has indicated that it intends to introduce further reductions in the main tax rate, with the rate falling by 2% to 21% on 1 April 2014 and a further 1% to 20% on 1 April 2015.
These further reductions to the tax rate, below the 23% rate, have not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are therefore not reflected in these consolidated financial statements.
The impact of the reduction in the main tax rate to 21% 2012: 22% on the deferred tax attributes of the Group would be a reduction in the deferred tax asset of 3 million 2012: 1 million.
82 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Governance Shareholder information Glossary of terms Financial statements Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
INVENTORIES following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for 2013 2012 financial reporting purposes: m m Television programme rights 470 379 2013 2012 Set-top boxes and related equipment 70 69 m m Other inventories 8 8 Deferred tax assets 70 46 Current inventory 548 456 Deferred tax liabilities 33 31 Non-current programme distribution rights 17 37 15 Total inventory 565 456 ii Unrecognised deferred tax assets At 30 June 2013, 89% 2012: 81% of the television programme rights and 100% 2012: 100% of set-top boxes and related equipment and 2013 2012 other inventories is expected to be recognised in the income m m statement within 12 months.
Tax losses arising from trading 271 252 Tax losses arising from capital disposals and 17.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES provisions against investments 323 341 594 593 2013 2012 m m Gross trade receivables 163 170 Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the items Less: provision for impairment of receivables 89 89 above because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be Net trade receivables 74 81 available against which the Group can utilise the losses.
Amounts receivable from joint ventures and associates 8 8 At 30 June 2013, a deferred tax asset of 15 million 2012: 14 million principally arising from UK losses in the Group, has not been Amounts receivable from other related parties 7 12 Prepayments 309 294 recognised.
These losses can only be offset against taxable profits Accrued income 162 155 generated in the entities concerned.
There is currently insufficient VAT 1 1 evidence to support the recognition of a deferred tax asset relating to Other 30 70 these losses.
The UK trading losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
Current trade and other receivables 591 621 Prepayments 6 7 At 30 June 2013, a deferred tax asset of 256 million 2012: 238 Other receivables 11 10 million has not been recognised in respect of overseas trading losses Non-current trade and other receivables 17 17 on the basis that it is not probable that these temporary differences Total trade and other receivables 608 638 will be utilised.
These losses include 250 million 2012: 235 million with respect to the Groups German holding companys former Included within current trade and other receivables is nil 2012: nil investment in KirchPayTV and 6 million 2012: 3 million with respect which is due in more than one year.
2 million of the overseas trading losses can be carried forward indefinitely, and 4 million of the losses will expire over The ageing of the Groups net trade receivables which are past due the course of the next seven years.
but not impaired is as follows: At 30 June 2013, a deferred tax asset of 312 million 2012: 329 2013 2012 million has not been recognised in respect of capital losses related to m m the Groups former investment in KirchPayTV, on the basis that Up to 30 days past due date 52 49 utilisation of these temporary differences is not probable.
At 30 June 30 to 60 days past due date 5 1 2013, the Group also has capital losses with a tax value estimated to 60 to 120 days past due date 2 2 59 52 be 11 million 2012: 12 million including impairment of a football club and other investments, which have not been recognised as a deferred The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other tax asset, on the basis that it is not probable that they will be utilised.
receivables approximates their fair values.
The Group is exposed to The capital losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
credit risk on its trade and other receivables, however the Group does not have any significant concentrations of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
Trade receivables principally comprise amounts outstanding from subscribers, advertisers and other customers.
Provisions for doubtful debts 2013 2012 m m Balance at beginning of year 89 195 Amounts utilised 36 137 Provided during the year 36 31 Balance at end of year 89 89 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 83 Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2013 2012 m m i Trade payables 712 629 Amounts owed to joint ventures and associates 9 10 Amounts owed to other related parties 102 90 VAT 143 140 Accruals 685 620 Deferred income 295 291 Other 77 75 Current trade and other payables 2,023 1,855 Trade payables 18 9 Amounts owed to other related parties 8 Deferred income 9 6 Other 36 4 Non-current trade and other payables 63 27 Total trade and other payables 2,086 1,882 i Included within trade payables are 225 million 2012: 226 million of US dollar-denominated payables.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair values.
Trade payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for programming purchases and ongoing costs.
PROVISIONS Provided At Provided Utilised At Reclassified released Utilised At during during during 30 June 1 July during during 1 July 2011 the year the year 2012 the year the year the year 2013 m m m m m m m m Current liabilities i Restructuring provision 6 6 13 3 16 ii Acquired and acquisition-related provisions 11 4 15 1 14 iii Customer-related provisions 47 6 41 iv Other provisions 10 18 6 22 17 17 19 37 21 28 6 43 16 63 28 94 Non-current liabilities v Other provisions 9 7 4 12 2 6 6 14 i These provisions significantly relate to costs incurred as part of a corporate efficiency programme.
ii These provisions arose on the acquisition of Amstrad which took place during the year ended 30 June 2008. iii These provisions are for those costs incurred in the one-off upgrade of set-top boxes and the programme to offer wireless connectors to selected Sky Movies customers.
iv Included in other provisions are amounts provided for onerous contracts for property leases, maintenance, legal disputes and warranty liabilities, which have been reclassified to provisions during the year.
The timing of the cash flows for onerous property, leases and maintenance are dependent on the terms of the remaining leases.
The timing of the cash flows for legal disputes cannot be reasonably determined.
v Included within non-current other provisions are amounts provided for onerous contracts for property leases and maintenance.
The timing of the cash flows are dependent on the terms of the leases, but are expected to continue up to September 2025.
BORROWINGS 2013 2012 m m Current borrowings ii Obligations under finance leases 11 8 Non-current borrowings i US$750 million of 5.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2015 496 500 i 400 million of 5.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2017 404 407 i US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 498 495 i US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 404 420 i US$800 million of 3.125% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2022 520 i 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 296 296 i US$350 million of 6.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2035 225 220 ii Obligations under finance leases 66 60 2,909 2,398 84 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Governance Shareholder information Glossary of terms Financial statements Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements i Guaranteed Notes At 30 June 2013, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by the Company: Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating m m m Fixed Floating US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 387 290 97 6.829% 6m LIBOR 1.892% US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 389 260 129 7.091% 6m LIBOR 5.542% US$800 million of 3.125% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2022 503 503 3.226% N A 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 300 300 6.000% N A 1,579 1,353 226 At 30 June 2013, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by BSkyB Finance UK plc: Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating m m m Fixed Floating US$750 million of 5.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2015 428 171 257 5.427% 6m LIBOR 0.698% 400 million of 5.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2017 400 350 50 5.750% 6m LIBOR 0.229% US$350 million of 6.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2035 200 200 5.826% N A 1,028 721 307 At 30 June 2012, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by the Company: Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating m m m Fixed Floating US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 387 290 97 6.829% 6m LIBOR 1.892% a US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 389 260 129 7.091% 6m LIBOR 5.542% 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 300 300 6.000% N A 1,076 850 226 a On 1 June 2012, the Group entered into forward starting interest rate swaps to fix the interest rates on 260 million of the November 2018 notes from 15 May 2013 to 15 November 2018.
The 260 million, referred to as fixed in the table above, had one further rate reset in November 2012 before this fixed rate became effective.
At 30 June 2012, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by BSkyB Finance UK plc: Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating m m m Fixed Floating US$750 million of 5.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2015 428 171 257 5.427% 6m LIBOR 0.698% 400 million of 5.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2017 400 350 50 5.750% 6m LIBOR 0.229% US$350 million of 6.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2035 200 200 5.826% N A 1,028 721 307 Note: Hedged value is the final redemption value including any hedging.
The Group has a Euro Medium Term Note Programme the Programme, which provides the Group with a standardised documentation platform for senior debt issuance in the Eurobond markets.
The 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes maturing in May 2027 have been issued under the Programme, which allows issuance of up to 1 billion.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 85 Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
BORROWINGS continued ii Finance leases The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: 2013 2012 m m Within one year 11 8 Between one and two years 11 8 Between two and three years 11 8 Between three and four years 8 8 Between four and five years 8 8 After five years 144 153 193 193 Future finance charges on finance lease liabilities 116 125 Present value of finance lease liabilities 77 68 The main obligations under finance leases are in relation to: a finance arrangements in connection with the broadband network infrastructure.
During the year, repayments of 7 million 2012: 7 million were made against the lease.
A proportion of these payments have been allocated against the capital outstanding.
The lease bears interest at a rate of 11.1% and expires in November 2039. b finance arrangements in connection with the contact centre in Dunfermline.
During the year, repayments of 1 million 2012: 1 million were made against the lease.
A proportion of these payments have been allocated against the capital amount outstanding.
The lease bears interest at a rate of 8.5% and expires in September 2020. c finance arrangements in connection with datacentre equipment.
The Group entered into the arrangements during the year, and repayments of less than 1 million were made against the lease.
The lease bears interest at a rate of 3.6% and expires in June 2016. iii Revolving Credit Facility The Group has a 743 million RCF with a maturity date of 31 October 2017, syndicated across 10 counterparty banks, each with a minimum credit rating of Baa1 or equivalent from Standard & Poors.
At 30 June 2013, the RCF was undrawn 2012: undrawn.
The Group is subject to two financial covenants under the RCF, a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest cover ratio, which are tested at the end of each six monthly period.
The key financial covenants are the ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA as defined in the loan agreements and EBITDA to Net Interest Payable as defined in the loan agreements.
Net Debt to EBITDA must be no more than 3.00:1 and EBITDA to Net Interest Payable must be at least 3.50:1.
The Group was in compliance with these covenants for all periods presented.
iv Guarantees The following guarantees are in place relating to the Groups borrowings: a British Sky Broadcasting Limited, Sky Subscribers Services Limited, BSkyB Finance UK plc and Sky In-Home Service Limited have given joint and several guarantees in relation to the Companys 743 million RCF and the outstanding Guaranteed Notes issued by the Company b the Company, British Sky Broadcasting Limited, Sky Subscribers Services Limited and Sky In-Home Service Limited have given joint and several guarantees in relation to the outstanding Guaranteed Notes issued by BSkyB Finance UK plc.
86 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Governance Shareholder information Glossary of terms Financial statements Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements 21.
DERIVATIVES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUmENTS Set out below are the derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group to manage its interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
2013 2012 Asset Liability Asset Liability Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional m m m m m m m m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 108 851 141 833 Cash flow hedges Cross-currency swaps 166 1,117 47 186 661 Forward foreign exchange contracts 37 1,146 26 973 28 880 3 223 Currency options collars 2 13 13 Derivatives not in a formal hedge relationship Cross-currency swaps 67 353 15 390 57 353 28 390 Forward foreign exchange contracts 1 114 1 49 25 1 127 Interest rate swaps 1 260 140 120 Total 380 3,841 42 1,459 414 2,905 32 873 The maturity of the derivative financial instruments is as follows: 2013 2012 Asset Liability Asset Liability m m m m In one year or less 15 13 23 2 Between one and two years 15 6 6 1 Between two and five years 251 8 101 1 In more than five years 99 15 284 28 Total 380 42 414 32 The fair value of the Groups debt-related derivative portfolio at 30 June 2013 was a 327 million net asset 2012: net asset of 356 million with net notional principal amounts totalling 1,957 million 2012: 1,454 million.
This comprised: net assets of 166 million designated as cash flow hedges 2012: net assets of 186 million, net assets of 108 million designated as fair value hedges 2012: net assets of 141 million and net assets of 53 million not designated in a formal hedge relationship 2012: net assets of 29 million.
At 30 June 2013, the carrying value of financial assets that were, upon initial recognition, designated as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss was nil 2012: nil.
Hedge accounting classification and impact The Group has designated certain interest rate swaps as fair value hedges of interest rate risk, representing 30% 2012: 37% of the Groups debt portfolio.
Movements in the fair value of the hedged items are taken to the income statement and are offset by movements in the fair value of the hedging instruments, to the extent that hedge accounting is achieved.
The Group has designated certain fixed rate cross-currency swaps as cash flow hedges of 47% 2012: 34% of the Groups debt portfolio.
As such, the effective portion of the gain or loss on these contracts is reported as a separate component of the hedging reserve, and is then reclassified to the income statement in the same periods that the forecast transactions affect the income statement.
During the current year, gains of 40 million were removed from the hedging reserve and credited to finance costs in the income statement to offset the currency translation movements in the underlying hedged debt 2012: gains of 22 million.
The Group designates certain forward foreign exchange contracts and the intrinsic element of options collars as cash flow hedges of forecast foreign currency sales and purchases.
Gains or losses are released from the hedging reserve and recycled to the income statement in the same period as the hedged item is recognised.
If forecast transactions are no longer expected to occur, any amounts included in the hedging reserve related to that forecast transaction would be recognised directly in the income statement.
During the current year, gains of 2 million were removed from the hedging reserve and credited to operating expense in the income statement 2012: gains of 3 million.
Gains of 8 million were removed from the hedging reserve and credited to revenue in the income statement 2012: gains of 5 million.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 87 Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
DERIVATIVES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUmENTS continued Hedge effectiveness testing is performed quarterly using the dollar-offset approach.
The actual movement in the hedging items is compared with the movement in the valuation of the hypothetically perfect hedge of the underlying risk at inception, and any ineffectiveness is recognised directly in the income statement.
Ineffectiveness of 2 million was recognised in the income statement during the current year 2012: 1 million.
A hedge relationship is deemed to be effective if the ratio of changes in valuation of the underlying hedged item and the hedging instrument is within the range of 80% to 125%.
Any relationship which has a ratio outside this range is deemed to be ineffective, at which point hedge accounting is suspended.
During the year ended 30 June 2013, there were no instances in which the hedge relationship was not highly effective 2012: no instances.
Financial instruments a Carrying value and fair value The accounting classification of each class of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities, together with their fair values, is as follows: Held to Derivatives Derivatives in Total maturity Availabledeemed held hedging Loans and Other carrying Total fair investments for-sale for trading relationships receivables liabilities value value m m m m m m m m At 30 June 2013 Quoted bond debt 2,843 2,843 3,185 Derivative financial instruments 53 285 338 338 Trade and other payables 1,567 1,567 1,567 Provisions 74 74 74 Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 77 77 77 Available-for-sale investments 422 422 422 Trade and other receivables 278 278 278 Short-term deposits 595 595 595 Cash and cash equivalents 65 750 815 815 At 30 June 2012 Quoted bond debt 2,338 2,338 2,674 Derivative financial instruments 28 354 382 382 Trade and other payables 1,378 1,378 1,378 Provisions 12 12 12 Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 68 68 68 Available-for-sale investments 228 228 228 Trade and other receivables 278 278 278 Short-term deposits 710 710 710 Cash and cash equivalents 464 464 464 The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows: The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and which are traded on active liquid markets is determined with reference to quoted market prices: The fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities excluding derivative instruments is determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer quotes for similar instruments: Foreign currency forward contracts and options are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts: Interest rate and cross-currency swaps are measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates: and The fair value of obligations under finance leases and other borrowings is estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present value.
The fair value of short-term deposits and cash and cash equivalents is equivalent to carrying value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.
88 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Governance Shareholder information Glossary of terms Financial statements Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements The differences between carrying values and fair values reflect unrealised gains or losses inherent in the financial instruments, based on valuations as at 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2012.
The volatile nature of the markets means that values at any subsequent date could be significantly different from the values reported above.
Cash and cash equivalents classified as held to maturity investments comprise money market deposits which have maturity dates of less than three months from inception.
Money market deposits, enhanced return investments and tri-party repurchase agreements which have maturity greater than three months from inception are classified as short-term deposits.
Cash and cash equivalents classified as loans and receivables mainly comprise investments in AAAm rated money market funds which can be withdrawn without notice.
b Fair value hierarchy The following table categorises the Groups financial instruments which are held at fair value into 1 of 3 levels to reflect the degree to which observable inputs are used in determining their fair values: Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 m m m m At 30 June 2013 Assets measured at fair value Available-for-sale financial instruments ITV investment 409 409 Other investments at cost 13 13 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate swaps 109 109 Cross-currency swaps 233 233 Forward foreign exchange and option contracts 38 38 Total 802 409 380 13 Liabilities measured at fair value Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Cross-currency swaps 15 15 Forward foreign exchange and option contracts 27 27 Total 42 42 At 30 June 2012 Assets measured at fair value Available-for-sale financial instruments ITV investment 223 223 Other investments at cost 5 5 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate swaps 141 141 Cross-currency swaps 243 243 Forward foreign exchange and option contracts 30 30 Total 642 223 414 5 Liabilities measured at fair value Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Cross-currency swaps 28 28 Forward foreign exchange and option contracts 4 4 Total 32 32 Level 1 Fair values measured using quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Fair values measured using inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability either directly or indirectly.
Level 3 Fair values measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 89 Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For each one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates at 30 22.
FINANCIAL RISK mANAGEmENT June 2013, and if all other variables were held constant: Group Treasury activity The Groups profit for the year ended 30 June 2013 would increase The Groups Treasury function is responsible for raising finance for or decrease by 9 million 2012: profit for the year would increase or the Groups operations, together with associated liquidity decrease by 4 million.
The year on year increase is driven by an management and management of foreign exchange, interest rate and increase in the cash balance held and by the fixing of 260 million credit risks.
Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of of debt.
policies and guidelines authorised and reviewed by both the Audit Other equity reserves would decrease or increase by 15 million Committee and the Board, which receive regular updates of Treasury 2012: decrease or increase by 14 million, arising from movements activity.
Derivative instruments are transacted for risk management in cash flow hedges.
It is the Groups policy that all hedging is to cover known risks and no speculative trading is undertaken.
Regular and A one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates represents a frequent reporting to management is required for all transactions large but realistic movement which can easily be multiplied to give and exposures, and the internal control environment is subject to sensitivities at different interest rates.
periodic review by the Groups internal audit team.
The sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical only and should be The Groups principal market risks are exposures to changes in used with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily interest rates and foreign exchange rates, which arise both from the indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced because Groups sources of finance and its operations.
Following evaluation of the Groups actual exposure to market rates changes as the Groups those market risks, the Group selectively enters into derivative portfolio of debt, cash and foreign currency contracts changes.
In financial instruments to manage these exposures.
The principal addition, the effect of a change in a particular market variable on fair instruments currently used are interest rate swaps to hedge interest values or cash flows is calculated without considering rate risks, and cross-currency swaps, forward foreign exchange interrelationships between the various market rates or mitigating contracts and currency options collars to hedge transactional and actions that would be taken by the Group.
The changes in valuations translational currency exposures.
are estimates of the impact of changes in market variables and are not a prediction of future events or anticipated gains or losses.
Interest rate risk The Group has financial exposures to both UK and US interest rates, Foreign exchange risk arising primarily from the Groups long-term bonds and other A combination of cross-currency and interest rate swap borrowings.
The Groups hedging policy requires that between 50% arrangements is used to convert the Groups US dollar denominated and 85% of borrowings are held at fixed rates.
This is achieved by debt and associated interest rate obligations to pounds sterling, at issuing fixed rate bonds and then using interest rate swaps to adjust fixed exchange rates.
At 30 June 2013, the split of the Groups the balance between fixed and floating rate debt.
The Groups bank aggregate borrowings into their core currencies was US dollar 73% debt is at floating rates, and, when drawn, means that the mix of fixed and pounds sterling 27% 2012: US dollar 67% and pounds sterling and floating rate debt fluctuates and is therefore managed to ensure 33%.
At 30 June 2013, 100% of the Groups long-term borrowings, compliance with the Groups hedging policy.
At 30 June 2013, 80% of after the impact of derivatives, are denominated in pounds sterling.
borrowings were held at fixed rates after hedging 2012: 75%.
The Groups revenues and operating expenses are substantially The Group uses derivatives to convert all of its US dollar-denominated denominated in pounds sterling.
A small proportion of operating debt and associated interest rate obligations to pounds sterling see expenses is denominated in US dollars, while a small proportion of section on foreign exchange risk for further detail.
At 30 June 2013, revenues is denominated in euros.
In the current year, approximately the Group had no net US dollar denominated interest rate exposure 10% of operating expenses 614 million was denominated in US on its borrowings.
dollars 2012: approximately 10% 532 million and 5% of revenues 392 million was denominated in euros 2012: 6% 382 million.
The Group designates its interest rate swaps as fair value hedges of interest rate risk.
Movements in the fair value of the hedged exposure The US dollar expense relates mainly to the Groups programming are taken to the income statement and are offset by movements in contracts with US suppliers, together with US dollar-denominated the fair value of the hedging instruments, which are also taken to the set-top box costs.
The euro revenues primarily relate to subscribers income statement.
Any hedge ineffectiveness is recognised directly in located in Ireland.
The Groups exposure to euro-denominated the income statement.
In the year ended 30 June 2013, this revenue is offset to a certain extent by euro-denominated costs, amounted to 2 million 2012: 1 million.
related mainly to certain transponder costs: the net position being a euro surplus 2012: surplus.
At 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2012, the Groups annual finance costs would be unaffected by any change to the Groups credit rating in The Group has some exposure to the European financial crisis either direction.
although the Groups net euro cash flows are approximately 3% of total group revenues and the Groups practice is to hold less than Interest rate sensitivity 10 million on deposit in euros.
Whilst some of the Groups syndicate The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the banks are headquartered in Europe, the Group does not currently exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative anticipate drawing the RCF.
To mitigate remaining risks, counterparty financial instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate credit and sovereign ratings are closely monitored, and no more than liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability 10% of cash deposits are held with a single bank counterparty with outstanding at the balance sheet date is outstanding for the whole the exception of overnight deposits which are invested in a spread of year.
90 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Governance Shareholder information Glossary of terms Financial statements Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements The Group hedges currency exposures on US dollar and euroadjusts their translation at the period end for a 25% change in foreign denominated highly probable cash flows by using forward foreign currency rates.
exchange contracts and options collars purchased up to five years A 25% strengthening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would ahead of the cash flow.
have the effect of reducing profit by 21 million 2012: reducing profit It is the Groups policy that all anticipated foreign currency exposures by 27 million, of which losses of 23 million relate to non-cash are substantially hedged in advance of the year in which they occur.
movements in the valuation of derivatives 2012: losses of 26 million.
The same strengthening would have an adverse impact on At 30 June 2013, the Group had purchased forward foreign exchange other equity of 237 million 2012: adverse impact of 185 million.
contracts and collars representing up to: A 25% weakening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would have Approximately 90% of US dollar-denominated costs falling due the effect of increasing profit by 34 million 2012: increasing profit within one year 2012: 85%, and approximately 80% of US dollarby 45 million of which gains of 38 million relate to non-cash denominated costs falling due within five years 2012: movements in the valuation of derivatives 2012: gains of 44 million.
approximately 80% which are hedged via: The same weakening would have a beneficial impact on other equity Outstanding commitments to purchase, in aggregate, US$1,926 of 395 million 2012: beneficial impact of 309 million.
A 25% strengthening in pounds sterling against the euro would have Collars relating to the purchase of a total of US$nil 2012: US$20 the effect of decreasing profit by 1 million 2012: increasing profit by million in aggregate.
None of this amount relates to non-cash Approximately 95% of net euro-denominated revenues falling due movements in the valuation of derivatives.
The same strengthening within one year 2012: approximately 75%, and approximately 80% would have a beneficial impact on other equity of 157 million 2012: of net euro-denominated revenues falling due within four years beneficial impact of 52 million.
2012: nil which are hedged via: A 25% weakening in pounds sterling against the euro would have the Outstanding commitments to sell, in aggregate, 1,039 million effect of increasing profit by 1 million 2012: reducing profit by less 2012: 400 million at an average rate of 1.19 to 1.00 2012: than 1 million.
None of this amount relates to non-cash movements 1.18 to 1.00. in the valuation of derivatives.
The same weakening would have an Outstanding commitments to purchase, in aggregate, 119 million adverse impact on other equity of 262 million 2012: adverse impact 2012: 88 million at an average rate of 1.16 to 1.00 2012: 1.22 of 86 million.
No forward foreign exchange contracts or collars fall due beyond five The sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical only and should be years 2012: none.
used with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced because The Group designates the following as cash flow hedges for hedge the Groups actual exposure to market rates is constantly changing as accounting purposes: the Groups portfolio of debt, cash and foreign currency contracts changes.
In addition, the effect of a change in a particular market Forward foreign exchange contracts.
The intrinsic value of collars all other fair value movements are variable on fair values or cash flows is calculated without considering recognised directly in the income statement.
interrelationships between the various market rates or mitigating Cross-currency swaps where interest on both legs is at a fixed actions that would be taken by the Group.
The changes in valuations are estimates of the impact of changes in market variables and are interest rate.
not a prediction of future events or anticipated gains or losses.
As such, the effective portion of the gain or loss on these contracts is reported as a component of the hedging reserve, outside the income Hedge accounting statement, and is then reclassified to the income statement in the The interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk sections above same periods that the forecast transactions affect the income outline the Groups policies regarding use of derivative products.
Ineffectiveness of 1 million was recognised in the income Further detail on valuations and the impact of hedge accounting during the year are provided in note 21. statement during the year 2012: less than 1 million.
A combination of US dollar denominated interest rate and US dollar Credit risk pound sterling cross-currency swaps is used to convert fixed dollar The Group is exposed to counterparty default risk amounting to invested cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits, and the denominated debt to floating sterling denominated debt.
The interest rate swaps are designated as fair value hedges.
The positive fair value of derivative financial assets held.
associated cross-currency swaps are not designated as hedging This risk is deemed to be low.
Counterparty risk forms a central part instruments for hedge accounting purposes and, as such, movements of the Groups Treasury policy, which is monitored and reported on in their value are recorded directly in the income statement.
The Group manages credit risk by diversifying its exposures Foreign exchange sensitivity across a wide number of counterparties, such that the maximum The following analyses details the Groups sensitivity to movements in exposure to any individual counterparty was less than 10% of the pounds sterling against those currencies in which it has significant total asset value of instruments at the end of the year.
The sensitivity analysis includes foreign currency policies ensure that all derivative transactions are only effected with denominated assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and strong relationship banks and, at the date of signing, each carried a outstanding foreign currency denominated financial instruments and minimum credit rating of Baa1 or equivalent from Standard & Poors.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 91 Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
FINANCIAL RISK mANAGEmENT continued The amount recognised in the income statement in respect of credit risk for derivatives deemed held for trading is nil 2012: nil.
Credit risk in our residential customer base is mitigated by billing and collecting in advance for digital television subscriptions for over 99% of our residential customer base.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk on trade receivables is the carrying amounts as disclosed in note 17.
Liquidity risk Our principal source of liquidity is cash generated from operations, combined with access to a 743 million RCF, which expires in October 2017, with the right to request an extension of one further year.
At 30 June 2013, this facility was undrawn 30 June 2012: undrawn.
To ensure continuity of funding, the Groups policy is to ensure that available funding matures over a period of years.
At 30 June 2013, 40% 2012: 59% of the Groups total available funding including available undrawn amounts on our RCF was due to mature in more than five years.
Full details of the Groups borrowings and undrawn facilities are shown in note 20, other than trade and other payables, shown in note 18, and provisions, shown in note 19.
92 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Governance Shareholder information Glossary of terms Financial statements Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements The following table analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities, net settled derivative financial instruments and gross settled financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings, based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows and may therefore not reconcile to the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet for borrowings, derivative financial instruments, provisions and trade and other payables.
Between Between Less than one and two and More than 12 months two years five years five years m m m m At 30 June 2013 Non derivative financial liabilities Bonds USD 125 125 1,291 1,490 Bonds GBP 41 41 500 462 Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 11 11 27 144 Trade and other payables 1,457 107 3 Provisions 66 4 1 3 Net settled derivatives Financial assets 32 32 65 6 Gross settled derivatives Outflow 1,020 760 1,687 1,381 Inflow 1,028 775 1,876 1,417 Between Between Less than one and two and More than 12 months two years five years five years m m m m At 30 June 2012 Non derivative financial liabilities Bonds USD 107 107 760 1,433 Bonds GBP 41 41 123 903 Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 8 8 24 153 Trade and other payables 1,281 86 11 Provisions 9 4 1 1 Net settled derivatives Financial assets 32 32 81 28 Gross settled derivatives Outflow 894 391 759 1,255 Inflow 917 397 813 1,408 Capital Risk Management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to endeavour to ensure that the Group has the ability to access capital markets when necessary and to optimise liquidity and operating flexibility through the arrangement of new debt, while seeking to minimise the cost of capital.
The Group monitors its liquidity requirements regularly and is satisfied that it has access to sufficient liquidity and operating flexibility to meet its capital requirements.
The Group manages its short and long-term capital structure by seeking to maintain leverage ratios consistent with a long-term investment grade credit rating BBBor better from Standard & Poors and Baa3 or better from Moodys.
The Groups current ratings are BBB Standard & Poors and Baa1 Moodys.
The leverage ratios assessed by these rating agencies are those of Net Debt: EBITDA and Gross Debt: EBITDA.
Net Debt is defined as total borrowings, including the cash flows arising under operating leases and transponder prepayments, less cash and cash equivalents, excluding derivatives.
Gross Debt does not reduce total borrowings by the inclusion of cash and cash equivalents.
The Group is also required to maintain a Net Debt: EBITDA ratio below 3.00:1 and an EBITDA to Net Interest Payable ratio at above 3.50:1 under the terms of its RCF.
The RCF definition of Net Debt does not require the inclusion of future operating lease or transponder cash flows.
At 30 June 2013, the Net Debt: EBITDA ratio as defined by the terms of the RCF was 0.7:1 2012: 0.6:1, and the EBITDA to Net Interest Payable ratio was 13.4:1 2012: 13.7:1.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 93 Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued period of up to four years from the date of grant.
SHARE CAPITAL of all Executive Share Option Scheme options is ten years.
2013 2012 m m ii Sharesave Scheme options Allotted, called-up and fully paid shares of 50p All Sharesave Scheme options outstanding at 30 June 2013 and 30 1,593,905,182 2012: 1,674,454,881 797 837 June 2012 have no performance criteria attached, other than the requirement that the employee remains in employment with the Group.
Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme must be 2013 2012 Number of Number of exercised within six months of the relevant award vesting date.
ordinary ordinary shares shares The Sharesave Scheme is open to all employees.
Options are normally exercisable after either three or five years from the date of grant.
The Allotted and fully paid during the year Beginning of year 1,674,454,881 1,752,842,599 price at which options are offered is not less than 80% of the Shares repurchased and middle-market price on the dealing day immediately preceding the subsequently cancelled 80,549,699 78,387,718 date of invitation.
It is the policy of the Group to make an invitation to End of year 1,593,905,182 1,674,454,881 employees to participate in the scheme following the announcement of the end of year results.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry equal voting iii management LTIP awards rights and no contractual right to receive payment.
Full details of the All Management LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2013 and 30 Companys share buy-back programme are provided in note 24.
June 2012 vest only if performance conditions are met.
Awards Share option and contingent share award schemes granted under the Management LTIP must be exercised within five The Company operates various equity-settled share option schemes years of the relevant award vesting date.
the Schemes for certain employees.
The Company grants awards to selected employees under the The number of newly issued shares which may be allocated under the Management LTIP.
Awards under this scheme mirror the LTIP, with the Schemes on any day shall not, when aggregated with the number of same performance conditions.
Awards exercised under the newly issued shares which have been allocated in the previous ten Management LTIP can only be satisfied by the issue of marketyears under the Schemes and any other employee share scheme purchased shares.
adopted by the Company, exceed such number as represents five iv LTIP awards percent of the ordinary share capital of the Company in issue All LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2012 vest immediately prior to that day.
In determining this limit no account shall only if performance conditions are met.
Awards granted under the LTIP be taken of any newly issued shares where the right to acquire the must be exercised within five years of the relevant award vesting date.
newly issued shares was released, lapsed, cancelled or otherwise became incapable of exercise.
Options and awards which will be The Company operates the LTIP for Executive Directors and Senior satisfied by ESOP shares do not fall within these headroom limits.
Awards under the scheme are granted in the form of a nil-priced option, and are satisfied using market-purchased shares.
The share awards outstanding can be summarised as follows: The awards vest in full or in part dependent on the satisfaction of specified performance targets.
For awards made in 2008 and 2009 2013 2012 i. e. awards that vested in 2011, 30% of the award vested dependent Number of Number of on TSR performance over a three year performance period, relative to ordinary ordinary the constituents of the FTSE 100 at the time of grant, and the shares shares remaining 70% vested dependent on performance against operational i targets.
The TSR performance targets were not applicable to awards Executive Share Option Scheme options 931,247 2,630,435 ii made between July 2010 and March 2012 but have been re-introduced Sharesave Scheme options 7,159,954 7,238,348 iii for awards granted from July 2012 onwards.
Management LTIP awards 24,365,112 15,018,148 iv LTIP awards 8,844,132 6,462,723 v management Co-Investment LTIP awards v Management Co-Investment LTIP awards 1,975,705 1,869,416 All Management Co-Investment LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June vi Co-Investment LTIP awards 2,068,175 1,953,013 2013 and 30 June 2012 vest only if performance conditions are met.
45,344,325 35,172,083 Awards granted under the Management Co-Investment LTIP must be exercised within five years of the relevant award vesting date.
i Executive Share Option Scheme options All Executive Share Option Scheme options outstanding at 30 June The Company grants awards to selected employees under the 2013 and 30 June 2012 have vested.
No options have been granted Management Co-Investment LTIP.
Awards under this scheme mirror under the scheme since 2004. the Co-Investment LTIP, with the same performance conditions.
Grants under the Executive Share Option Scheme were made on an vi Co-Investment LTIP awards annual basis to selected employees, with the exercise price of options All Co-Investment LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2013 and 30 being equal to the Companys share price on the date of grant.
For June 2012 vest only if performance conditions are met.
Awards those options with performance conditions, growth in EPS had to granted under the Co-Investment LTIP must be exercised within five exceed growth in the Retail Prices Index plus 3% per annum in order years of the relevant award vesting date.
Options vested on an accelerated basis over a 94 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Governance Shareholder information Glossary of terms Financial statements Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements The Company operates the Co-Investment LTIP award for Executive Directors and Senior Executives.
Employees who participate in the plan are granted a conditional award of shares based on the amount they have invested in the Companys shares.
The investment will be matched up to a maximum of 1.5 shares for every share invested, subject to a three-year EPS performance condition.
For the purposes of the disclosure below, the Management LTIP, LTIP, Management Co-Investment LTIP and Co-Investment LTIP awards Senior Management Schemes have been aggregated.
For those exercised under the Executive Scheme it was 7.79 2012: 7.19, for those exercised under the Sharesave Scheme it was 8.19 2012: 6.89, and for those exercised under the Senior Management Schemes it was 7.60 2012: 7.03.
The middle-market closing price of the Companys shares at 28 June 2013 was 7.92 29 June 2012: 6.97.
The following table summarises information about share awards outstanding at 30 June 2013: Senior management Executive Scheme Sharesave Scheme Schemes Total Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average remaining remaining remaining remaining contractual contractual contractual contractual life life life life Range of exercise prices Number Years Number Years Number Years Number Years 0.00 1.00 37,253,124 5.9 37,253,124 5.9 3.00 4.00 410,643 1.1 410,643 1.1 4.00 5.00 440,134 1.7 440,134 1.7 5.00 6.00 485,586 1.1 4,387,409 2.6 4,872,995 2.5 6.00 7.00 444,163 0.2 1,921,768 3.5 2,365,931 2.9 7.00 8.00 1,498 0.7 1,498 0.7 931,247 0.7 7,159,954 2.7 37,253,124 5.9 45,344,325 5.3 The following table summarises information about share awards outstanding at 30 June 2012: Senior management Executive Scheme Sharesave Scheme Schemes Total Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average remaining remaining remaining remaining contractual contractual contractual contractual life life life life Range of exercise prices Number Years Number Years Number Years Number Years 0.00 1.00 25,303,300 6.0 25,303,300 6.0 3.00 4.00 578,155 1.6 578,155 1.6 4.00 5.00 1,597,612 1.6 1,597,612 1.6 5.00 6.00 1,318,767 1.6 5,062,581 3.6 6,381,348 3.2 6.00 7.00 1,310,170 1.1 1,310,170 1.1 7.00 8.00 1,498 1.7 1,498 1.7 2,630,435 1.4 7,238,348 3.0 25,303,300 6.0 35,172,083 5.0 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 95 Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
SHARE CAPITAL continued The range of exercise prices of the awards outstanding at 30 June 2013 was between nil and 7.16 2012: nil and 7.16.
For those awards outstanding under the Executive Scheme it was between 5.03 and 7.16 2012: 5.03 and 7.16 : for those outstanding under the Sharesave Scheme it was between 3.72 and 6.08 2012: 3.72 and 5.65 and for all awards outstanding under the Senior Management Schemes the exercise price was nil 2012: nil.
The following table summarises additional information about the awards exercisable at 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2012: 2013 2012 Average Average remaining remaining Weighted contractual Weighted contractual Options life of average Options life of average exercisable exercise exercisable exercisable exercise exercisable at 30 June options price at 30 June options price Executive Scheme 931,247 0.7 5.79 2,630,435 1.4 5.84 Sharesave Scheme 97,457 0.1 4.49 160,403 0.1 3.80 Senior Management Schemes 663,972 3.7 0.00 1,258,950 4.1 0.00 1,692,676 1.8 3.45 4,049,788 2.2 3.95 Information for awards granted during the year The weighted average fair value of equity-settled share options granted during the year, as estimated at the date of grant, was 5.16 2012: 5.39.
This was calculated using the Black-Scholes share option pricing model except for awards which have market-based performance conditions, where a Monte-Carlo simulation model was used, and for grants of nil-priced options, which were treated as the award of a free share.
The fair value of nil-priced options granted during the year was measured on the basis of the market-price of the Companys shares on the date of grant, discounted for expected dividends which would not be received over the vesting period of the options.
The Monte-Carlo simulation model reflected the historical volatilities of the Companys share price and those of all other companies to which the Companys performance would be compared, over a period equal to the vesting period of the awards.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Companys share price, over a period equal to the expected life of the options.
Expected life was based on the contractual life of the awards and adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
i Sharesave Scheme The weighted average fair value of equity-settled share awards granted during the year under the Sharesave Scheme, as estimated at the date of grant, was 1.51 2012: 1.87.
This was calculated using the Black-Scholes share option pricing model.
The following weighted average assumptions were used in calculating these fair values: 2013 2012 Share price 7.51 6.88 Exercise price 6.08 5.08 Expected volatility 24.0% 28.6% Expected life 4.0 years 4.5 years Expected dividends 3.4% 3.4% Risk-free interest rate 0.4% 1.0% ii Senior management Schemes The weighted average fair value of equity-settled share awards granted during the year under the Senior Management Schemes, as estimated at the date of grant, was 5.66 2012: 6.56.
The fair value of awards with market-based performance conditions was calculated using a Monte-Carlo simulation model.
Awards granted as nil-priced options were treated as the award of a free share.
For all other awards, fair value was calculated using the Black-Scholes share option pricing model.
The following weighted average assumptions were used in calculating these fair values: 2013 2012 Share price 7.16 7.04 Exercise price 0.00 0.00 Expected volatility 6.3% Expected life 3.0 years 2.1 years Expected dividends 3.6% 3.3% Risk-free interest rate 0.0% 96 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Governance Shareholder information Glossary of terms Financial statements Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements 24.
SHAREHOLDERS EqUITY 2013 2012 m m Share capital 797 837 Share premium 1,437 1,437 ESOP reserve 147 112 Hedging reserve 11 68 Available-for-sale reserve 351 165 Other reserves 439 399 Retained earnings 1,876 1,850 1,012 944 Purchase of own equity shares for cancellation On 29 November 2011, at the Companys AGM, the Company was granted the authority to return 750 million of capital to shareholders via a share buy-back programme the November 2011 Authority.
This authority was subject to an agreement between the Company and TwentyFirst Century Fox, Inc. formerly known as News Corporation and others dated 28 July 2011 whereby following any market purchases of shares by the Company, Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. would sell to the Company sufficient shares to maintain its percentage shareholding at the same level as applied prior to those market purchases.
The price payable to Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. would be the price payable by the Company in respect of the relevant market purchases the 2011 Share Buy-back Agreement.
At the Companys AGM on 1 November 2012, the Company was granted the authority to return a further 500 million of capital to shareholders via a share buy-back programme the November 2012 Authority.
This authority was subject to an agreement between the Company and Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. and others dated 28 July 2012 on substantially the same terms as the 2011 Share Buy-back Agreement.
During the year, the Company purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 80,549,699 ordinary shares at an average price of 7.75 per share, with a nominal value of 40 million, for a consideration of 627 million.
Consideration included stamp duty and commission of 3 million.
This represents 5% of called-up share capital at the beginning of the period.
Of these purchases, the Company purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 31,525,314 ordinary shares from Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. at an average price of 7.75 per share, with a nominal value of 16 million, for a consideration of 245 million.
Consideration included stamp duty of 1 million.
During the prior year, the Company purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 78,387,718 ordinary shares at an average price of 6.92 per share, with a nominal value of 39 million, for a total consideration of 546 million.
This represented 4% of called-up share capital at the beginning of the period.
Of these purchases, the Company purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 30,679,157 ordinary shares from Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. at an average price of 6.92 per share, with a nominal value of 15 million, for a consideration of 213 million.
The following table provides information about purchases of equity shares by the company, including purchases by the Groups ESOP, during the fiscal year.
Capital Capital Total capital Total capital authorised to be authorised to be returned returned returned under returned under Average under the under the the November the November Total number price paid November 2011 November 2012 2011 2012 of shares per share Authority Authority Authority Authority i i i i ii i Period purchased m m m m July 1,269,480 6.93 9 198 August 9,073,208 7.42 67 131 September 9,904,203 7.42 74 57 October 4,261,576 7.36 31 26 November 23,509,002 7.61 4 106 394 December 15,809,283 7.68 121 273 January 273 February 2,029,171 8.14 17 256 March 728,450 8.67 6 250 April 4,909,090 8.58 42 208 May 17,234,709 8.15 141 67 June 821,527 7.77 6 61 Total for the year ended 30 June 2013 89,549,699 7.74 185 439 61 i All share purchases are included in the month of settlement.
ii The November 2011 Authority expired on 1 November 2012.
Accordingly, no more repurchases can take place under this authority.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 97 Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
SHAREHOLDERS EqUITY continued Share premium and special reserve On 10 December 2003, the High Court approved a reduction in the Companys share premium account of 1,120 million, as approved by the Companys shareholders at the AGM held on 14 November 2003.
This amount was equal to the Company-only profit and loss account reserve deficit at 30 June 2003.
As part of the application, the Companys balance sheet at 30 September 2003 was required to be presented.
At that date, the deficit on the Company-only profit and loss account reserve had reduced by 14 million since 30 June 2003, to 1,106 million.
As a condition of the reduction, the reduction in the share premium account of 1,120 million was permitted to be offset against the profit and loss account reserve by the amount of the deficit at 30 September 2003.
The excess of 14 million was credited to a special reserve, which is included in other reserves, and, under the terms of the reduction, will remain undistributable until all the creditors of the Company and its guarantors as at 10 December 2003 are paid.
ESOP reserve The cost of the Companys ordinary shares held by the Groups ESOP is treated as a deduction in arriving at total shareholders equity.
The movement in the ESOP reserve was as follows: Number of Average ordinary price paid shares per share m At 1 July 2011 13,832,609 7.75 107 Share options exercised during the year 20,702,163 7.55 156 Shares purchased by the ESOP during the year 23,162,899 6.93 161 At 30 June 2012 16,293,345 6.85 112 Share options exercised during the year 4,765,922 7.14 34 Shares purchased by the ESOP during the year 9,000,000 7.69 69 At 30 June 2013 20,527,423 7.15 147 Hedging reserve Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges are initially recognised in the hedging reserve, and subsequently recognised in the income statement when the related hedged items are recognised in the income statement.
In addition, deferred taxation relating to these derivatives is also initially recognised in the hedging reserve prior to transfer to the income statement.
Available-for-sale reserve Available-for-sale investments are carried at fair value where this can be reliably measured, with movements in the fair value recognised directly in the available-for-sale reserve.
At 30 June 2013, the Groups available-for-sale reserve was 351 million 2012: 165 million.
Other reserves The Groups other reserves include a capital redemption reserve, a merger reserve, a foreign currency translation reserve and a special reserve.
The capital redemption reserve was 174 million as at 30 June 2013 2012: 134 million.
The merger reserve was 222 million as at 30 June 2013 2012: 222 million.
The special reserve was 14 million as at 30 June 2013 2012: 14 million.
The foreign currency translation reserve was 29 million as at 30 June 2013 2012: 29 million.
Merger reserve The merger reserve was created in accordance with the merger relief provisions under section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended and section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the accounting for business combinations involving the issue of shares at a premium.
Merger relief provided relief from the requirement to create a share premium account in a parent companys balance sheet.
In preparing consolidated financial statements, the amount by which the fair value of the shares issued exceeded their nominal value was recorded within a merger reserve on consolidation, rather than in a share premium account.
This merger reserve was retained upon transition to IFRS, as allowed under UK law.
The merger reserve, which is included in other reserves, was created as a result of the purchase by the Group of interests in two entities.
SIG was purchased on 12 July 2000, where consideration was paid by the issue of equity shares in the Company.
BiB was purchased between 28 June 2001 and 11 November 2002, where consideration was paid by the issue of equity shares in the Company.
At 30 June 2013, the Groups merger reserve was 222 million 2012: 222 million.
98 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Governance Shareholder information Glossary of terms Financial statements Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements 25.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEmENT Reconciliation of profit before tax to cash generated from operations 2013 2012 m m Profit before tax 1,257 1,189 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 176 179 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 202 165 Share-based payment expense 80 66 Net finance costs 80 93 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 46 39 1,749 1,653 Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 35 32 Increase in inventories 93 81 Increase in trade and other payables 136 175 Increase in provisions 52 25 Decrease in derivative financial instruments 2 3 Cash generated from operations 1,877 1,737 26.
CONTRACTED COmmITmENTS, CONTINGENCIES AND GUARANTEES a Future minimum expenditure contracted for but not recognised in the financial statements Year Year Year Year Year ending ending ending ending ending Total at Total at 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June After 5 30 June 30 June 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 years 2013 2012 m m m m m m m m i Television programme rights 1,488 1,387 1,199 356 212 121 4,763 5,102 Set-top boxes and related equipment 202 202 182 ii Third party payments 62 56 50 21 189 210 iii Transponder capacity 82 83 79 75 68 247 634 683 Property, plant and equipment 17 17 27 iv Intangible assets 23 18 28 19 19 5 112 144 iv Smartcards 42 44 45 45 45 11 232 276 Other 262 111 84 70 41 6 574 337 2,178 1,699 1,485 586 385 390 6,723 6,961 Foreign currency commitments are translated to pounds sterling at the rate prevailing on the balance sheet date.
i At 30 June 2013, the Group had minimum television programming rights commitments of 4,763 million 2012: 5,102 million, of which 506 million 2012: 376 million related to commitments payable in US dollars for periods of up to seven years 2012: six years.
Assuming that movie subscriber numbers remain unchanged from current levels, an additional 531 million US$808 million of commitments 2012: 420 million US$652 million would also be payable in US dollars, relating to price escalator clauses.
The pound sterling television programme rights commitments include similar price escalation clauses that would result in additional commitments of 163 million 2012: 9 million if subscriber numbers were to remain at current levels.
ii The third party payment commitments are in respect of distribution agreements for the television channels owned and broadcast by third parties, retailed by the Group to retail and commercial subscribers Sky Distributed Channels and are for periods of up to five years 2012: five years.
The extent of the commitment is largely dependent upon the number of retail subscribers to the relevant Sky Distributed Channels, and in certain cases, upon inflationary increases.
If both the retail subscriber levels to these channels and the rate payable for each Sky Distributed Channel were to remain at current levels subject to inflationary increases, the additional commitment would be 805 million 2012: 463 million.
iii Transponder capacity commitments are in respect of the Astra, Eutelsat and Telenor Satellite Broadcasting AS satellites that the Group uses for digital transmissions to both retail subscribers and cable operators.
The commitments are for periods of up to twelve years 2012: thirteen years.
iv Commitments in relation to the provision of smartcards.
Smartcards under development are included within intangible assets.
The amounts included above are the expected ongoing smartcard costs based on forecast customer levels.
b Contingencies and guarantees Certain subsidiaries of the Company have agreed to provide additional funding to several of their investments in limited and unlimited companies and partnerships, in accordance with funding agreements.
Payment of this additional funding would be required if requested by the investees in accordance with the funding agreements.
The maximum potential amount of future payments which may be required to be made by the subsidiaries of the Company to their investments, in both limited and unlimited companies and partnerships under the undertakings and additional funding agreements, is 25 million 2012: 30 million.
The Group has guarantees in place relating to the Groups borrowings, see note 20.
Competition Appeal Tribunal CAT On 8 August 2012, the Competition Appeal Tribunal the CAT issued its judgment in the appeals against Ofcoms decision to impose wholesale must-offer obligations on Sky the Pay TV Judgment.
The CAT found that Ofcoms core competition concerns were unfounded and British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 99 Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Transactions with related parties and amounts outstanding in 26.
CONTRACTED COmmITmENTS, relation to those transactions and with related parties at 30 June are CONTINGENCIES AND GUARANTEES continued as follows: that accordingly Skys appeal must be allowed.
On 26 April 2013, BT 2013 2012 was granted permission to appeal the Pay TV Judgment in the Court m m of Appeal.
Pending determination of BTs appeal, the Court of Appeal Supply of goods or services by the Group 89 79 has stayed withdrawal of the WMO obligations and distribution of the Purchases of goods or services by the Group 156 199 monies paid by relevant wholesale customers into escrow on an Amounts owed to the Group 7 12 interim basis being the difference between the maximum price Sky Amounts owed by the Group 102 98 may charge for Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2 under the WMO obligations and Skys rate card prices for the channels.
At 30 June 2013 the Group had expenditure commitments of 97 million in relation to transactions with related parties and with related At 30 June 2013, 31 million of cash is being held in the escrow parties 2012: 462 million of which 97 million 2012: 58 million account.
related to minimum television programming rights commitments and nil 2012: 404 million related to expected ongoing smartcard costs.
Ofcom determination Included within direct networks costs for the year ended 30 June Goods and services supplied 2013 is a credit of 32 million in relation to a credit note received from During the year, the Group supplied set-top boxes, programming, BT following an Ofcom determination which requires BT to repay airtime, transmission, marketing, consultancy services, customer monies to Sky for overcharged-for Ethernet services backhaul relationship management services and a licence to use the Sky brand between 2006 07 and 2009 10.
Sky, BT and others have appealed to Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. companies.
Ofcoms determination in the CAT.
Purchases of goods and services and certain other relationships During the year, the Group purchased programming, digital 27.
OPERATING LEASE COmmITmENTS equipment, smartcards and encryption services, set-top box The minimum lease rentals to be paid under non-cancellable technologies, advertising and IT services from Twenty-First Century operating leases at 30 June are as follows: Fox, Inc. companies.
2013 2012 There is an agreement between Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. m m formerly known as News Corporation and the Group, pursuant to Within one year 49 49 which it was agreed that, for so long as Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc.
Between one and two years 42 39 directly or indirectly holds an interest of 30% or more in the Group, Between two and three years 35 32 Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. will not engage in the business of Between three and four years 37 27 satellite broadcasting in the UK or Ireland.
Between four and five years 18 20 Share buy-back programme After five years 45 59 During the year, the Company purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 226 226 31,525,314 ordinary shares held by Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. as The majority of operating leases relate to property.
The rents payable part of its share buy-back programme.
For further details, see under these leases are subject to renegotiation at the various note 24. intervals specified in the leases.
b Joint ventures and associates The minimum sub-lease rentals to be received under non-cancellable Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are operating sub-leases at 30 June are as follows: related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its joint 2013 2012 ventures and associates are disclosed below.
m m Within one year 2 6 Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, joint Between one and two years 2 3 ventures and associates are disclosed in the Companys separate Between two and three years 2 2 financial statements.
Between three and four years 2 2 Between four and five years 1 2 2013 2012 After five years 5 6 m m 14 21 Supply of services by the Group 22 24 Purchases of goods or services by the Group 66 67 Sub-lease rentals primarily relate to property leases.
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates to the Group 9 15 28.
TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES AND Amounts owed to joint ventures and associates mAJOR SHAREHOLDERS by the Group 9 10 a Entities with joint control or significant influence Services supplied are primarily the provision of transponder capacity, During the year the Group conducted business transactions with marketing, airtime sales and support services.
Purchases represent fees companies that form part of the Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. group payable for channel carriage.
Amounts owed by joint ventures and formerly known as News Corporation, a major shareholder in the associates include 1 million 2012: 7 million relating to loan funding.
100 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Governance Shareholder information Glossary of terms Financial statements Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements These loans bear interest at a rate of one month LIBOR plus 1%.
The completion: the process of verification of and agreement on these maximum amount of loan funding outstanding in total from joint estimates is ongoing.
ventures and associates during the year was 7 million 2012: 16 million.
Recognised fair values The Group took out a number of forward exchange contracts with m counterparty banks during the year on behalf of the joint venture Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and AETN UK.
On the same dates as these forward contracts were entered liabilities assumed into, the Group entered into equal and opposite contracts with AETN Intangible assets 137 UK in respect of these forward contracts.
Property, plant and equipment 25 Trade and other receivables 7 Consequently, the Group was not exposed to any of the net gains or Trade and other payables 3 losses on these forward contracts.
The face value of forward Deferred tax liability 10 exchange contracts with AETN UK that had not matured as at 30 June 156 2013 was 8 million 2012: 2 million.
Goodwill 49 During the year, US$4 million 2012: US$3 million was paid to the joint Satisfied by: consideration venture upon maturity of forward exchange contracts and US$nil Cash purchase price 180 2012: US$14 million was received from the joint venture upon Contingent consideration arrangement 20 Cash estimated working capital adjustment and active maturity of forward exchange contracts.
subscribers adjustment 5 During the year, 2 million 2012: 2 million was received from the joint Net cash outflow arising on purchase venture upon maturity of forward exchange contracts, and 3 million Cash paid 185 2012: 7 million was paid to the joint venture upon maturity of All amounts in the above table are provisional.
The fair value of the financial assets acquired includes trade During the year, 4 million 2012: nil was received from the joint receivables with a fair value and gross contractual value of 6 million.
venture upon maturity of forward exchange contracts and nil 2012: The best estimate at the acquisition date of the contractual cash 2 million was paid to the joint venture upon maturity of forward flows not likely to be collected was less than 1 million.
Goodwill of 49 million arising from the acquisition reflects buyerAt 30 June 2013 the Group had minimum expenditure commitments specific synergies and the strategic value of accelerating the Groups of 4 million 2012: 1 million with its joint ventures and associates.
development in the UK broadband market.
None of the goodwill c Other transactions with related parties recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
A close family member of one Director of the Company runs Freud The contingent consideration is payable dependent upon the Communications Limited Freud, which has provided external successful delivery and completion of the customer migration process support to the press and publicity activities of the Group.
During the by Telefnica UK.
The potential undiscounted amount of all future year the Group incurred expenditure amounting to 1 million 2012: payments that the Group could be required to make under the 1 million with Freud.
At 30 June 2013 there was less than 1 million contingent consideration arrangement is between nil and 20 million.
2012: less than 1 million due to Freud.
20 million has been recognised as the fair value of this arrangement In addition to the foregoing, the Group has engaged in a number of at the acquisition date.
transactions with companies of which some of the Companys Acquisition-related costs, included in operating expense in the Directors are also directors.
These do not meet the definition of Groups consolidated income statement for the year ended 30 June related party transactions.
2013, amounted to 15 million and comprise principally of costs d Key management relating to the integration of the acquired customer base.
The Group has a related party relationship with the Directors of the Company.
At 30 June 2013, there were 14 2012: 14 members of key For the period between the date of purchase and 30 June 2013, the acquisition contributed 15 million to the Groups revenue, and less management all of whom were Directors of the Company.
Key than 1 million to the Groups profit before tax.
If the Group had management compensation is disclosed in note 6b.
completed the purchase on the first day of the financial year, it is estimated that the acquisition would have contributed 90 million to 29.
ACqUISITION OF SUBSIDIARY Group revenue and an immaterial amount to the Groups profit for O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business the year.
On 30 April 2013, the Group completed the purchase of the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business from 30.
EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD Telefnica UK, comprising 100% of the share capital of Be Un Limited, subsequently renamed Sky Home Communications Limited On 25 July 2013, the Board agreed to seek the necessary approvals to the acquisition.
The acquisition was made in order to increase the return a further 500 million of capital to shareholders via a share scale of the Groups existing home communications operation.
Shareholder approvals will be sought at the Companys AGM on 22 November 2013.
The Company has entered into an Total consideration comprised 180 million of cash relating to the agreement with Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. formerly known as News purchase price, contingent consideration of 20 million and a Corporation and others under which, following any market purchases provisional 5 million cash adjustment relating to working capital and of shares by the Company, Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. will sell to the active subscribers.
The provisional working capital and active Company sufficient shares to maintain its percentage shareholding at subscribers adjustment was estimated by Telefnica UK and paid at British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 101 Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD continued the same level as applied prior to those market purchases.
The price payable to Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. will be the price payable by the Company in respect of the relevant market purchases.
The agreement is conditional on the appropriate shareholder approvals being granted.
The effect of the agreement is to provide that there will be no change in Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. s economic or voting interests in the Company as a result of the share buy-back programme.
GROUP INVESTmENTS The significant investments of the Company which principally affect the consolidated results and total assets of the Group are as follows: Name Country of Description and proportion of incorporation shares held % Principal activity Subsidiaries: Direct holdings of the Company British Sky Broadcasting Limited United Kingdom 10,002,002 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Operation of pay television broadcasting and home communications services in the UK and Ireland BSkyB Finance UK plc United Kingdom 50,000 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Finance company Subsidiaries: Indirect holdings of the Company Sky Subscribers Services Limited United Kingdom 3 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Provision of ancillary functions supporting the pay television broadcasting, residential broadband and telephone operations of the Group Sky Holdings Limited United Kingdom 600 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Holding company Sky In-Home Service Limited United Kingdom 1,576,000 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Supply, installation and maintenance of satellite television receiving equipment BSkyB Telecommunications United Kingdom 5,821,764 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Management of the network assets in the UK Services Limited Sky Ventures Limited United Kingdom 912 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Holding company The Cloud Networks Limited United Kingdom 30,583,988 shares of 0.00025 per share 100% Provision of telecommunications Hestview Limited United Kingdom 108 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Provision of sports betting activities Bonne Terre Limited Guernsey 2,504 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Provision of gaming activities Sky Home Communications Limited United Kingdom 9,528,124 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Provision of residential broadband and telephone operations Joint ventures and associates : ii Nickelodeon UK Limited United Kingdom 104 B Shares of 0.01 each 40% Transmission of childrens television channels AETN UK United Kingdom 50,000 A Shares of 1 each 50% Transmission of history, biography, crime and investigation television programming ii iii Paramount UK Partnership United Kingdom Partnership interest 25% Transmission of general entertainment comedy channels Australian News Channel Pty Australia 1 ordinary share of AUD$1 33.33% Transmission of news and business channels Limited NGC Network International LLC United States of Partnership interest 21% Transmission of natural history and adventure channels America NGC Network Latin America LLC United States of Partnership interest 21% Transmission of natural history and adventure channels America i Attheraces Holdings Limited United Kingdom 1,502 ordinary shares of 1 each 45.9%, Transmission of a horse racing channel and related online activities 20 Recoupment Shares of 0.55 each MGM Channel UK Limited United Kingdom 50 ordinary shares of 1 each 50% Transmission of classic movies in HD Sky News Arabia FZ-LLC United Arab Emirates 26,666,666 shares of US$1 each 50% Transmission of Arabic News in the MENA region Middle East and North Africa Investments: i ITV Plc United Kingdom 291,684,730 ordinary shares of 0.10 each 7.42% Transmission of free-to-air channels Notes i These entities have an accounting reference date of 31 December.
ii These entities have an accounting reference date of 30 September.
iii The registered address of Paramount UK Partnership is 180 Oxford Street, London W1D 1DS.
The Paramount UK Partnership is a joint venture of the Group and is included within the consolidated accounts in accordance with Note 1 c ii.
Consequently, the Paramount UK Partnership has taken advantage of the exemption within the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 regulation 7 from filing annual financial statements.
iv This note sets out an abbreviated list of the subsidiaries of the Company.
A full list will be filed with Companies House in accordance with section 410 of the Companies Act 2006.
The following companies are exempt from the requirements relating to the audit of individual accounts for the year period ended 30 June 2013 by virtue of section 479A of the Companies Act 2006: BSkyB Finance Limited 02906994, Kidsprog Limited 02767224, Parthenon Media Group Limited 06944197, SATV Publishing Limited 01085975, Sky Holdings Limited 05585009, Sky IP International Limited 07245844, Sky Television Limited 01518707 and Sky New Media Ventures Limited 03879726.
102 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Governance Shareholder information Glossary of terms Financial statements Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements 32.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC COmPANY ONLY FINANCIAL STATEmENTS Company Income Statement for the year ended 30 June 2013 2013 2012 Notes m m Revenue 214 200 Operating expense 40 20 Operating profit 174 180 Dividend income from subsidiaries O 947 874 Investment income B 58 56 Finance costs B 61 63 Profit before tax C 1,118 1,047 Taxation D 30 45 Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 1,088 1,002 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this income statement.
Company Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 30 June 2013 2013 2012 m m Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 1,088 1,002 Other comprehensive income Amounts recognised directly in equity Gain on cash flow hedges 3 12 Tax on cash flow hedges 1 3 2 9 Amounts reclassified and reported in the income statement Loss on cash flow hedges 28 8 Tax on cash flow hedges 7 2 21 6 Other comprehensive loss income for the year net of tax 19 3 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity shareholders 1,069 1,005 All results relate to continuing operations.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 103 Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC COmPANY ONLY FINANCIAL STATEmENTS continued Company Balance Sheet as at 30 June 2013 2013 2012 Notes m m Non-current assets Investments in subsidiaries E 8,143 8,272 Other receivables G 3 3 Derivative financial assets J 341 384 8,487 8,659 Current assets Other receivables G 2,967 1,652 Cash and cash equivalents 1 2,967 1,653 Total assets 11,454 10,312 Current liabilities Other payables I 3,434 2,774 Non-current liabilities Borrowings H 1,718 1,211 Derivative financial liabilities J 176 220 Deferred tax liabilities F 1 3 1,895 1,434 Total liabilities 5,329 4,208 Share capital L 797 837 Share premium L 1,437 1,437 Reserves 3,891 3,830 Total equity attributable to equity shareholders 6,125 6,104 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 11,454 10,312 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this balance sheet.
These financial statements of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc, registered number 02247735, have been approved by the Board of Directors on 25 July 2013 and were signed on its behalf by: Jeremy Darroch Andrew Griffith Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Company Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 30 June 2013 2013 2012 Notes m m Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations M Net cash from operating activities Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from the exercise of share options 15 10 Loan to subsidiaries 16 13 Net cash used in financing activities 1 3 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 1 3 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 1 4 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 1 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this cash flow statement.
104 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Governance Shareholder information Glossary of terms Financial statements Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 30 June 2013 Capital Total Share Share Special redemption Capital ESOP Hedging Retained Shareholders capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings equity m m m m m m m m m At 1 July 2011 876 1,437 14 95 844 107 3 2,988 6,150 Profit for the year 1,002 1,002 Recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges 4 4 Tax on items taken directly to equity 1 1 Total comprehensive income for the year 3 1,002 1,005 Share-based payment 5 80 85 Share buy-back programme see note 24 : Purchase of own shares for cancellation 39 39 546 546 Financial liability for close period purchases 10 10 Dividends 410 410 At 30 June 2012 837 1,437 14 134 844 112 6 2,944 6,104 Profit for the year 1,088 1,088 Recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges 25 25 Tax on items taken directly to equity 6 6 Total comprehensive income for the year 19 1,088 1,069 Share-based payment 35 61 26 Share buy-back programme see note 24 : Purchase of own shares for cancellation 40 40 617 617 Financial liability for close period purchases 16 16 Dividends 441 441 At 30 June 2013 797 1,437 14 174 844 147 13 3,019 6,125 For a description of the nature and purpose of each equity reserve, see note L. The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement of changes in equity.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 105 Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC COmPANY ONLY FINANCIAL STATEmENTS continued A.
Accounting policies C. Profit before taxation British Sky Broadcasting Group plc the Company is a limited liability Employee benefits company incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in The Company had nil employees 2012: nil during the year.
Key management compensation i Basis of preparation Amounts paid to the Directors of the Company are disclosed in the The Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance Report on Directors remuneration on pages 48 to 56. with IFRS, consistent with the accounting policies set out in note 1 of D. Taxation the Groups consolidated financial statements.
i Taxation recognised in the income statement ii Revenue 2013 2012 Revenue, which excludes value added tax, represents the gross inflow m m of economic benefit from the Companys operating activities.
Revenue Current tax expense is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or Current year 37 46 receivable.
The Companys main source of revenue is from licensing the Adjustment in respect of prior years 11 Companys brand name asset to subsidiaries.
This revenue is Total current tax charge 26 46 Deferred tax expense recognised on an accruals basis under the terms of relevant licensing agreements.
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 4 3 iii Investment in subsidiaries Adjustment in respect of prior years 4 An investment in a subsidiary is recognised at cost less any provision Total deferred tax charge credit 4 1 for impairment.
As permitted by section 133 of the Companies Act Taxation 30 45 2006, where the relief afforded under section 131 of the Companies ii Deferred tax recognised directly in equity Act 2006 applies, cost is the aggregate of the nominal value of the relevant number of the Companys shares and the fair value of any 2013 2012 m m other consideration given to acquire the share capital of the subsidiary undertakings.
Deferred tax credit charge on hedging activities 6 1 B.
Investment income and finance costs iii Reconciliation of effective tax rate 2013 2012 The tax expense for the year is lower 2012: lower than the expense m m that would have been charged using the blended rate of corporation Investment income tax in the UK 23.75% applied to profit before tax.
The applicable Investment income from subsidiaries 58 56 enacted or substantively enacted effective rate of UK corporation tax for the year was 23.75% 2012: 25.5%.
The differences are explained 2013 2012 below: m m Finance costs 2013 2012 Interest payable and similar charges m m Revolving Credit Facility RCF 2 8 Profit before tax 1,118 1,047 Guaranteed Notes see note H 76 67 Profit before tax multiplied by blended rate of 78 75 corporation tax in the UK of 23.75% 2012: 25.5% 266 267 Other finance income expense Effects of: Remeasurement of borrowings and borrowings-related derivative financial Non-taxable income 225 224 instruments not qualifying for hedge Non-deductible expenditure 6 accounting 16 12 Over provision in respect of prior years 11 4 Loss gain arising on derivatives in a Taxation 30 45 designated fair value hedge accounting All taxation relates to UK corporation tax.
relationship 22 42 Gain loss arising on adjustment for hedged item in a designated fair value hedge accounting relationship 23 42 17 12 61 63 106 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Governance Shareholder information Glossary of terms Financial statements Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements E. Investments in subsidiaries G. Other receivables m 2013 2012 m m Cost Amounts receivable from subsidiaries 2,966 1,652 At 1 July 2011 9,061 Prepayments and other receivables 1 Additions 703 Current other receivables 2,967 1,652 Disposal 487 Non-current prepayment 3 3 At 30 June 2012 9,277 Total other receivables 2,970 1,655 Additions 573 Disposal 702 On 26 November 2012, the Company issued US$800 million At 30 June 2013 9,148 Guaranteed Notes with a coupon rate of 3.125% and loaned proceeds Provision to British Sky Broadcasting Limited.
British Sky Broadcasting Limited At 1 July 2011, 30 June 2012 and 30 June 2013 1,005 pays the same annual effective interest rate to the Company.
Carrying amounts At 1 July 2011 8,056 On 5 March 2009, the Company made a loan of 694 million to British At 30 June 2012 8,272 Sky Broadcasting Limited which is repayable on demand and bears At 30 June 2013 8,143 interest at a rate of 6 month LIBOR plus 0.75%.
In October 2009, the Company assigned 604 million of this loan to settle payables with During the year, the Company purchased 100% of the share capital of BSkyB Finance Limited.
BSkyB LLU Assets Limited from its direct subsidiary BSkyB Finance UK Plc.
The Company subsequently transferred its investment in On 13 January 2009, the Company made a loan of 252 million to BSkyB LLU Assets Limited to its direct subsidiary British Sky British Sky Broadcasting Limited.
This loan bears interest at a rate of 6 Broadcasting Limited.
month LIBOR plus 1.00% and is repayable on demand.
During the prior year, the Company transferred its investment in On 13 January 2009, the Company made a loan of 91 million to Sky British Interactive Broadcasting Holdings Limited to its subsidiary In-Home Service Limited.
This loan is repayable on demand and bears British Sky Broadcasting Limited.
Following this transfer, British interest at a rate of 6 month LIBOR plus 1.00%.
Interactive Broadcasting Holdings Limited was put into liquidation.
On 24 November 2008, the Company issued US$600 million See note 31 for a list of significant investments of the Company.
Guaranteed Notes with a coupon rate of 9.5% and loaned the proceeds to BSkyB Finance Limited.
BSkyB Finance Limited pays the F. Deferred tax same annual effective interest rate to the Company.
Recognised deferred tax liabilities On 29 June 2008, the Company entered into loan agreements with Financial British Sky Broadcasting Limited for 143 million and 109 million, both instruments temporary bearing interest at a rate of 1 month LIBOR plus 0.75%.
These loans differences are repayable on demand.
m At 1 July 2011 3 On 29 June 2008, Sky Ventures Limited transferred its 11 million loan Credit to income 1 receivable from BSkyB Finance Limited to the Company.
This loan Charge to equity 1 bears interest at a rate of 1 month LIBOR plus 0.75% and is repayable At 30 June 2012 3 on demand.
Charge to income 4 On 29 June 2008, the Company entered into a RCF with BSkyB Finance Credit to equity 6 Limited worth 40 million.
Amounts loaned under this facility bear At 30 June 2013 1 interest at a rate of 1 month LIBOR plus 0.75% and are repayable on At 30 June 2013, a deferred tax asset of 278 million 2012: 299 demand.
million has not been recognised in respect of capital losses related to On 15 February 2008, the Company issued US$750 million Guaranteed the Groups holding in KirchPayTV, on the basis that utilisation of Notes with a coupon rate of 6.100% and loaned the proceeds to these temporary differences is not probable.
At 30 June 2013, the British Sky Broadcasting Limited.
British Sky Broadcasting Limited Company has also not recognised a deferred tax asset of 7 million pays the same annual effective interest rate to the Company.
2012: 8 million relating to capital losses and provisions in respect of football club investments, on the basis that it is not probable that All other amounts receivable from subsidiaries are non-interest they will be utilised.
bearing and are also repayable on demand.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of other receivables approximates their fair values.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 107 Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC COmPANY ONLY FINANCIAL STATEmENTS continued The Companys credit risk is primarily attributable to its other receivables.
The majority of its other receivables balance is due from British Sky Broadcasting Limited.
The risk of this entity defaulting on amounts owed is considered low due to its successful operation of pay television broadcasting and home communications services in the UK and Ireland.
H. Borrowings 2013 2012 m m Non-current borrowings US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 498 495 US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 404 420 US$800 million of 3.125% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2022 520 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 296 296 1,718 1,211 See note 20 for details of the Companys Guaranteed Notes and RCF and note 22 for details of Capital Risk Management.
Other payables 2013 2012 m m Other payables Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 3,398 2,746 Amounts owed to other related parties 6 4 Other 10 6 Accruals 20 18 3,434 2,774 Amounts payable to subsidiaries are non-interest bearing and repayable on demand.
The balance comprises 1,898 million of non-interest bearing loans 2012: 1,271 million and 1,500 million of other payables 2012: 1,475 million.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of other payables approximates their fair values.
J. Derivatives and other financial instruments Fair values Set out below is a comparison of the carrying values and the estimated fair values of the Companys financial assets and financial liabilities at 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2012: 2013 2013 2012 2012 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value m m m m Financial assets and liabilities held or issued to finance the Companys operations Quoted bond debt 1,718 1,915 1,211 1,411 Derivative financial instruments 165 165 164 164 Other payables and receivables 467 467 1,122 1,122 The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as detailed in note 21 and all items held at fair value are classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
108 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Governance Shareholder information Glossary of terms Financial statements Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Set out below are the derivative financial instruments entered into by the Company to manage its interest rate and foreign exchange risk.
2013 2012 Asset Liability Asset Liability Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional m m m m m m m m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 65 505 87 494 Cash flow hedges Cross-currency swaps 86 746 47 80 290 Derivatives not in a formal hedge relationship Interest rate swaps 43 605 42 345 54 479 54 459 Cross-currency swaps 147 725 134 1,018 163 724 166 1,017 Total 341 2,581 176 1,410 384 1,987 220 1,476 Note 21 provides further details of the Groups derivative and other financial instruments.
The maturity of the derivative financial instruments is shown below: 2013 2012 Asset Liability Asset Liability m m m m Between two and five years 242 112 99 99 In more than five years 99 64 285 121 Total 341 176 384 220 K. Financial risk management Interest rate and foreign exchange risk management The Company manages its exposure to interest rates and foreign exchange movements, which arise from the Companys sources of finance by selectively entering into derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure.
The Company has also entered into derivative contracts on behalf of its subsidiary BSkyB Finance UK plc, and has back-to-back intercompany contracts.
Foreign exchange risk The following analysis details the Companys sensitivity to movements in pounds sterling against all currencies in which it has significant transactions.
The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated financial instruments and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 25% change in foreign currency rates.
A 25% strengthening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would have an adverse impact on profit of 22 million 2012: adverse impact of 26 million, relating to non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives.
The same strengthening would have an adverse impact on other equity of 25 million 2012: adverse impact of 21 million.
A 25% weakening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would have a beneficial impact on profit of 36 million 2012: beneficial impact of 43 million, relating to non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives.
The same weakening would have a beneficial impact on other equity of 42 million 2012: beneficial impact of 34 million.
Interest rate risk The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
For each one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates at 30 June 2013, and if all other variables were held constant, the Companys profit for the year ended 30 June 2013 would decrease or increase by 3 million 2012: decrease or increase by 3 million and other equity reserves would decrease or increase by 4 million 2012: decrease or increase by 4 million.
A one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates represents a large but realistic movement which can easily be multiplied to give sensitivities at different interest rates.
The sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical only and should be used with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced because the effect of a change in a particular market variable on fair values or cash flows is calculated without considering interrelationships between the various market rates or mitigating actions that would be taken by the Company.
In addition, the Companys actual exposure to market rates changes as the Companys portfolio of debt changes.
The changes in valuations are estimates of the impact of changes in market variables and are not a prediction of future events or anticipated gains or losses.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 109 Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC COmPANY ONLY FINANCIAL STATEmENTS continued Liquidity risk See note 22 for the Companys policy on liquidity management.
The following table analyses the Companys non-derivative financial liabilities, net settled interest rate swaps and gross settled currency swaps and collars into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows and may therefore not reconcile to the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet for borrowings, derivative financial instruments and other payables.
Between Between Less than one and two and More than 12 months two years five years five years m m m m At 30 June 2013 Non-derivative financial liabilities Bonds USD 83 83 740 999 Bonds GBP 18 18 54 462 Other payables 3,434 Net settled derivatives Financial assets 17 17 51 6 Gross settled derivatives Outflow 62 62 574 978 Inflow 63 63 682 926 Between Between More than Less than one and two and 12 months two years five years five years m m m m At 30 June 2012 Non-derivative financial liabilities Bonds USD 65 65 195 938 Bonds GBP 18 18 54 480 Other payables 2,774 Net settled derivatives Financial assets 18 18 56 25 Gross settled derivatives Outflow 50 50 149 840 Inflow 47 47 140 913 At 30 June 2013, the Company had an undrawn 743 million RCF with a maturity date of 31 October 2017.
See note 20 for further information.
L. Notes to the Company statement of changes in equity For details of share capital, share premium, the special reserve, the capital redemption reserve and the hedging reserve see notes 23 and 24.
For details of the Companys share buy-back programmes, see note 24.
For details of dividends, see note 9.
Capital reserve This reserve arose from the surplus on the transfer of trade and assets to a subsidiary undertaking.
110 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Governance Shareholder information Glossary of terms Financial statements Annual Report 2013: Notes to the consolidated financial statements M. Reconciliation of profit before tax to cash generated from operations 2013 2012 m m Profit before tax 1,118 1,047 Dividend income 947 874 Net finance costs 3 7 Increase in other receivables 174 179 Decrease in other payables 1 Cash generated from operations N. Contingent liabilities and guarantees The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have undertaken, in the normal course of business, to provide support to several of the Groups investments in both limited and unlimited companies and partnerships, to meet their liabilities as they fall due.
Several of these undertakings contain maximum financial limits.
These undertakings have been given for at least one year from the date of the signing of the UK statutory accounts of the related entity.
A payment under these undertakings would be required in the event of an investment being unable to pay its liabilities.
The Company has provided parent company guarantees in respect of the various contracts entered into with the Premier League by British Sky Broadcasting Limited covering the 2013 14 to 2015 16 football seasons.
In each case the guarantee covers all payment obligations now or in the future due, owing or incurred by British Sky Broadcasting Limited under the contracts and all liabilities now or in the future arising or incurred under the indemnity given to the Premier League by British Sky Broadcasting Limited under the contracts.
The Company has provided a parent company guarantee in respect of the contract entered into with British Sky Broadcasting Limited and Stanhope plc in relation to the construction of a new Meeting Centre at the Osterley Campus.
The guarantee covers all performance obligations and payment obligations imposed on British Sky Broadcasting Limited under that contract.
The Company has guarantees in place relating to the Groups borrowings, see note 20, and in relation to audit exemptions, see note 31.
Transactions with related parties and major shareholders 2013 2012 m m Supply of services to subsidiaries 214 200 Interest received from funding to subsidiaries 58 56 Amounts owed by subsidiaries 2,966 1,652 Amounts owed to subsidiaries 3,398 2,746 Amounts owed to other related parties 6 4 The Company has related party transactions with its subsidiaries by virtue of its status as parent company of the Group.
In particular, it is normal treasury practice for the Company to lend and borrow cash to and from its subsidiaries as required.
Under this policy, British Sky Broadcasting Limited settled liabilities of 74 million 2012: 67 million on behalf of the Company during the year.
Interest is earned on certain loans to subsidiaries.
The Company recognised 214 million 2012: 200 million for licensing the Sky brand name to subsidiaries.
The Company recognised dividends during the year from subsidiaries totalling 947 million 2012: 874 million.
Share buy-back programme During the year, the Company purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 31,525,314 ordinary shares held by Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. formerly known as News Corporation as part of its share buy-back programme.
For further details, see note 24.
The Groups related party transactions are disclosed in note 28.
P. Events after the reporting period On 25 July 2013, the Board agreed to seek the necessary approvals to return a further 500 million of capital to shareholders via a share buy-back programme.
For further details, see note 30 to the consolidated financial statements.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 111
