Shareholder information continued Cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements This announcement includes statements that are forward-looking in nature.
Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the group to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Except as required by the Listing Rules and applicable law, Britvic undertakes no obligation to update or change any forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring after the date such statements are published.
Definitions 1 Where appropriate, comparisons are quoted using constant exchange rates.
Constant currency change removes the impact of exchange rate movements during the period by retranslating prior year foreign currency denominated results of the group at current period exchange rates to aid comparability.
2 EBITA is defined as operating profit before exceptional and other items and amortisation.
Only amortisation attributable to intangibles related to acquisitions is added back, in the period this is 2.9m 2012: 2.9m as reported last year.
EBITA margin is the EBITA as a proportion of group revenues.
3 Adjusted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing adjusted earnings by the average number of shares during the period.
Adjusted earnings is defined as the profit loss attributable to ordinary equity shareholders before exceptional and other items adjusted for the adding back of acquisition related amortisation.
Average number of shares during the period is defined as the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period excluding any own shares held by Britvic that are used to satisfy various employee share-based incentive programmes.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for adjusted earnings per share for the period was 243.2m 2012: 241.6m.
4 Underlying free cash flow is defined as net cash flow excluding movements in borrowings, dividend payments and exceptional and other items.
5 Group adjusted net debt is defined as group net debt, adding back the impact of derivatives hedging the balance sheet debt.
6 Return on invested capital ROIC - is defined as operating profit after applying the tax rate for the period, stated before exceptional and other items, as a percentage of invested capital.
Invested capital is defined as non-current assets plus current assets less current liabilities, excluding all balances relating to interest bearing liabilities and all other assets or liabilities associated with the financing and capital structure of the group and excluding any deferred tax balances and effective hedges relating to interest-bearing liabilities.
All numbers in this announcement, other than where stated or included within the financial statements, are disclosed before exceptional and other items.
The auditors have reported on the 2013 and 2012 accounts.
Their reports for both years were unqualified and did not contain statements under section 498 2 or 3 of the Companies Act 2006.
122 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 Designed by sg design [sg-design.
co. uk] Photography by ben fisher [benfisherphotography.
com] Print management by oliver marketing [www.
com] Br itvic plc Breakspear Park Breakspear Way Hemel Hempstead HP2 4TZ Tel: 44 0 121 711 1102 www.
