Remuneration report Remuneration report executive, managing director and group Statement from the risk and finance director, we have: identied The remuneration acting chair of the board financial and non-financial performance report was prepared measures which reect the interests of all remuneration committee stakeholders: established weightings for the by the remuneration different measures which correspond with committee and Key messages their importance to shortand long-term approved by the My predecessor and the joint chairmen performance: set an overall quantum of met with shareholders last year to reward which reects our South African as board.
discuss remuneration arrangements well as our non-South African operations: for Investec's executive directors.
Our and framed the schemes so as to get the shareholders told us that they wanted to right balance between a formulaic and a see more transparency in remuneration discretionary approach.
arrangements at Investec and a clear link We have thought carefully about the between pay and performance.
Since effect of our incentives on motivation and then we have worked with our advisers behaviours not only for Investecs current and the executive directors at Investec senior management but also for the next to meet shareholders requirements.
We are proposing to move to We believe that we have developed a a more prescriptive and formulaic basis for comprehensive and credible response to determining variable remuneration, closely shareholders concerns and following a linking remuneration with performance, period of shareholder consultation the final albeit with a significant element of incentive scheme proposals and proposed overarching discretion.
Regulatory long-term incentive awards will be set rules which require deferral of variable out in a separate shareholder circular on remuneration, with a portion being deferred remuneration together with a resolution in shares, and arrangements for clawback seeking shareholders approval of a new all add to the complexity.
Full details will Investec plc Executive Incentive Plan.
be set out in the shareholder circular on The resolution will be considered remuneration.
at a general meeting to be held on 8 August 2013 following the Investec 1SPQPTFE BXBSET All long-term incentive annual general meeting.
awards granted to the chief executive, managing director and group risk and New regulation in the UK which will finance director have lapsed unvested.
ow later this year from the Capital We were unable to make an award last Requirements Directive IV CRD IV in year under the old Share Matching Plan relation to variable pay is likely to further as the performance conditions attached constrain the remuneration committee's to that plan were no longer acceptable options for creating remuneration to the UK regulator.
As a consequence, arrangements which properly balance the these executive directors currently have no interests of all stakeholders.
Requirements interest in any long-term incentive schemes.
likely to follow from the Department for This lack of alignment with shareholders Business Innovation and Skills BIS long-term interests is a matter of concern in relation to disclosure requirements which the remuneration committee and for directors pay and new voting board consider should be rectied.
arrangements, including binding votes on remuneration policy, will most likely cause It is intended that share awards will us to engage more with shareholders on be made to executive directors at the 4 remuneration matters.
Addressing both discretion of the committee, on an annual issues, which is likely to require re-working basis.
Further details will be contained in of our remuneration arrangements for all UK the shareholder circular on remuneration Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA Code accompanying the notice of general staff, including executive directors, and meeting.
As mentioned above, the re-working of our remuneration reports, committee was not able to make any longas well as re-thinking our approach to term awards last year.
The last time that engaging with shareholders, all in the any awards were made was in 2010.
These same reporting period is likely to prove awards have lapsed having failed to meet challenging.
the performance conditions set for them on grant.
If approved at the extraordinary Executive director general meeting, awards under the remuneration arrangements 2013 long-term incentive plan will vest in ODFOUJWF TDIFNFT In designing shortand 2017 and annually thereafter but only if long-term incentive schemes for the chief performance conditions have been met.
Investec integrated annual report 2013 113 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued 4BMBSJFT BOE CFOFUT We are proposing t 5PUBM TUBGG DPNQFOTBUJPO SBUJPT BSF BT imposed by CRD IV when it is nalised.
no changes to the salary and benets of the GPMMPXT The PRA is expected to publish a chief executive officer, managing director consultation paper on implementation T otal for the group: 43.7% and the chief executive officer of Investec shortly.
It is widely expected that these 2012: 43.0% regulations will limit the quantum of variable Asset Management all of whose salaries are Asset Management: 46.1% remuneration including the value of longbased in Pounds Sterling.
The group risk 2012: 45.9% term incentive awards to one times the and finance director, whose salary is based Wealth & Investment: 55.6% level of xed remuneration, or two times in Rand, received an inationary salary 2012: 57.2% xed remuneration if shareholders pass a adjustment.
These changes Specialist Banking: 40.8% are expected to be effective some time in Review of the 2013 financial 2012: 40.2% 2014, possibly as early as 1 January.
"year t ""OOVBM CPOVT GPS FYFDVUJWF EJSFDUPST Key points to note for the period under We will be asking shareholders to support In light of the positive financial review include: the proposed arrangements for the groups performance of the group in 2013 and 2014 financial year which is likely to be after consideration of progress across t SPVQ QFSGPSNBODF the last year in which these proposals a range of non-financial measures, the Operating profit before goodwill, are acceptable under UK regulations."
remuneration committee approved an acquired intangibles, non-operating We are following regulatory and market annual bonus of 1.5 million for each items and after non-controlling developments closely and expect to of Stephen Koseff, Bernard Kantor interests increased 20.8% to have to again consult with shareholders and Glynn Burger and 4.4 million for 433.2 million in early 2014 on amended remuneration Hendrik du Toit.
A total of 3.1 million arrangements for the groups 2015 financial Adjusted earnings per share is to be received up front in cash and year.
Unfortunately, it appears that we increased 16.4% to 37 pence 5.8 million deferred may be forced to increase the xed pay Dividends per share increased element of compensation in order to be t PO FYFDVUJWF EJSFDUPST The board 5.9% to 18 pence able to comply with the new regulations.
approved a modest increase in fees Return on equity increased to 9.5% We will take advice and work with senior for the forthcoming year, roughly in line 2012: 7.8% executives to do this in a way which best with ination serves the interests of the group and all its Recurring income as a % of total stakeholders.
t 3FNVOFSBUJPO HPWFSOBODF After operating income increased to nine years of service as chair of the 68.6% 2012: 67.7% We will also need to work through the remuneration committee, George Return on average risk weighted implications of the Undertakings for the Alford stepped down at year end assets increased to 1.09% Collective Investment of Transferable and I was appointed acting chair 2012: 0.91% Securities Directive V UCITS V and, to a of the remuneration committee.
lesser extent, Alternative Investment Fund Core capital and liquidity ratios Shortly thereafter, Bradley Fried Managers Directive AIFMD for Investec remain sound was appointed to serve on the Asset Management and approve changes Our total shareholder return was remuneration committee.
Bradley is to IAMs remuneration policy where 24.6% for Investec plc in Pounds not an independent director because necessary.
Sterling and 41.2% for Investec he served as the chief executive officer Limited in Rand.
This compares of Investec Bank plc for a period 3FNVOFSBUJPO SFQPSUJOH In the UK, the to a return of 29.7% for the FTSE BIS has been consulting on significant to March 2010.
We consider that 350 General Finance Index.
changes to the way directors remuneration Bradleys knowledge and experience Since listing on the London Stock is disclosed in this report and how of the group is deemed to be beneficial Exchange in 2002, Investec plc shareholders are to be able to exert greater to the workings of this committee has outperformed the FTSE 350 inuence over the decisions taken in listed and is believed to be in the best General Finance Index UK companies.
We have been monitoring interests of shareholders.
During the these developments and have adopted year  were 4 a number of the new rules in this report, Refer to graph on page 126. additionally appointed as advisers to a year before they are required to be the company in relation to the executive complied with.
The greatest changes will, directors incentive schemes and more however, be seen in next years report.
BOBHFNFOU QFSGPSNBODF recently the implications of CRD IV.
Operating profit before goodwill, New Bridge Street continue to advise 3FNVOFSBUJPO QPMJDZ As reported last acquired intangibles, non-operating the remuneration committee.
year, there were certain contractual items and after non-controlling arrangements among the rms that we Agenda for the 2014 financial interests increased 4.8% to acquired in 2011 which fell below best year 140.2 million, contributing 32.4% practice and are outside our preferred to group profit conditions of employment.
We have NQBDU PG &VSPQFBO EJSFDUJWFT Investec received assurances that these will be Assets under management will be impacted by the changing regulatory phased out in the coming financial year.
increased 13.4% to 69.8 billion requirements in the UK and the Specialist with net new ows of 4.1 billion.
Bank will need to meet the challenges 114 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued employees interests with those of all Conclusion Remuneration stakeholders and ensure the groups short-, The board and remuneration committee philosophy, principles mediumand long-term success.
are grateful to George Alford for his careful and skilful discharge of his onerous and policy In summary, we recognise that financial responsibilities over a long period which institutions have to distribute the return saw tremendous growth in Investec's Remuneration philosophy from their enterprises between the suppliers business in both scale and complexity and of capital and labour and the societies in Our philosophy, which remains unchanged during which the regulatory environment which they do business, the latter through from prior years, is to employ the highest in which the remuneration committee taxation and corporate social responsibility calibre individuals, who are characterised operated became considerably more activities.
Our group-wide remuneration by integrity, intellect and innovation and demanding a trend which looks set to philosophy seeks to maintain an who adhere and subscribe to our culture, continue.
appropriate balance between the interests values and philosophies.
We strive to of these stakeholders, and is closely aligned inspire entrepreneurship by providing The executive director incentive scheme to our culture and values which include a working environment that stimulates proposals are the subject of shareholder risk consciousness, meritocracy, material extraordinary performance, so that consultation and will be set out in a employee ownership and an unselsh executive directors and employees may separate circular and I will not attempt to contribution to colleagues, clients and be positive contributors to our clients, their summarise those proposals here.
to say that I trust that stakeholders will communities and the group.
acknowledge the considerable effort which A value added statement is We reward executive directors and has been expended this year to respond included on page 9. employees for their contribution through: to feedback from shareholders and design incentive schemes for our executive t An annual gross remuneration package Remuneration principles directors which are transparent and which base salary and benets providing an Remuneration policies, procedures and fully reect and balance the different industry competitive package practices, collectively referred to as the interests of all our stakeholders.
remuneration policy are designed, in t A variable short-term incentive related The committee unanimously recommends normal market conditions, to: to performance annual bonus that you vote to approve this report at the t Be in line with the business strategy, 2013 annual general meeting.
t A long-term incentive plan share objectives, values and long-term awards providing long-term equity Signed on behalf of the board interests of the Investec group participation.
t Be consistent with, and promote, We consider the aggregate of the above as sound and effective risk management, the overall remuneration package designed 0MJWJB $ %JDLTPO and not encourage risk taking that to attract, retain, incentivise and drive the Acting chair exceeds the level of tolerated risk of the behaviour of our employees over the short, Remuneration committee Investec group medium and longer term in a risk conscious manner.
Overall, rewards are considered as 11 June 2013 t Ensure that payment of variable important as our core values of work content remuneration does not limit the Investec greater responsibility, variety of work and groups ability to maintain or strengthen high level of challenge and work afliation its capital base entrepreneurial feel to the company and unique culture in the attraction, retention t Target gross remuneration base salary and motivation of employees.
and benets including pension at median market levels to contain xed We have a strong entrepreneurial, meritcosts and values-based culture, characterised by passion, energy and stamina.
The ability to 4 t Ensure that variable remuneration live and perpetuate our culture and values is largely economic value added in the pursuit of excellence in a regulated EVAbased and underpinned by our industry and within an effective risk pre-determined risk appetite and capital management environment is considered allocation paramount in determining overall reward t Facilitate alignment with shareholders levels.
through deferral of a portion of shortThe type of people the organisation term incentives into shares and longattracts, and the culture and environment term incentive share awards within which they work, remain crucial in determining our success and longt Target total compensation base salary, term progress.
Our reward programmes benets and incentives to the relevant are clear and transparent, designed competitive market at upper quartile and administered to align directors and levels for superior performance.
Investec integrated annual report 2013 115 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued Given our stance on the xed cost Factors considered for overall levels of international competitors in each of our remuneration at the level of the group component of remuneration, our markets include: commitment to inspiring an entrepreneurial t Appropriate benchmark, industry culture, and our risk-adjusted return on t Financial measures of performance and comparable organisations capital approach to EVA, we do not apply remuneration practices are reviewed Risk-adjusted EVA model an upper limit on variable rewards.
regularly Affordability The xed cost component of remuneration t For executive directors, the is, however, designed to be sufficient so t Non-financial measures of performance remuneration committee benchmarks of: that employees do not become dependent against a bespoke peer group on their variable compensation as we Market context comprising: Aberdeen Asset are contractually and do not consider Specic input from the group risk Management, ABSA Group, Alliance ourselves morally bound to make variable and compliance functions.
Bernstein, Close Brothers Group, remuneration awards.
FirstRand, Invesco, Jefferies, Julius Factors considered to determine total Baer, Macquarie Group, Man Group, In addition, we operate a fully exible compensation for each individual include: Nedbank Group, Rathbone Brothers, incentive policy and are not contractually Schroders, Standard Bank Group and bound to make incentive awards.
Investec t Financial measures of performance Tullett Prebon has the ability to pay no annual bonuses Achievement of individual targets and make no long-term incentive awards and objectives t For employees, combinations of rms should the performance of the group or from the JSE Financial 15 and the Scope of responsibility and individual employees require this.
FTSE350 General Finance sector individual contributions have offered the most appropriate We do not pay remuneration through t Non-financial measures of performance benchmarks vehicles that facilitate avoidance of Alignment and adherence to our applicable laws and regulations.
t In order to avoid disproportionate culture and values packages across areas of the group Furthermore, employees must undertake The level of cooperation and and between executives, adjustments not to use any personal hedging strategies collaboration fostered may be made at any extremes to or remuneration or liability-related Development of self and others ensure broad internal consistency.
contracts of insurance to undermine Adjustments may also be made to Attitude displayed towards risk the risk alignment effects embedded in the competitive positioning of pay consciousness and effective risk their remuneration arrangements.
Group components for individuals, in cases management Compliance maintains arrangements where a higher level of investment is Adherence to internal controls designed to ensure that employees comply needed in order to build or grow or procedures with this policy.
sustain either a business unit or our Compliance with the groups capability in a geography.
No individual is involved in the regulatory requirements and determination of his her own remuneration relevant policies and procedures, The following section outlines our rewards and specic internal controls and including treating customers fairly remuneration policy in more detail for processes are in place to prevent conicts each element of total compensation as it The ability to gr ow and develop of interest between Investec and its clients applies to employees.
Our remuneration markets and client relationships from occurring and posing a risk to the arrangements for executive directors are Multi-year contribution to group on prudential grounds.
currently the subject of a consultation with performance and brand building shareholders and will be the subject of a Long-term sustained performance Remuneration policy separate shareholder circular.
Specic input from the group risk All remuneration payable salary, benets and compliance functions and incentives is assessed at a group, 4 Gross remuneration: business unit and individual level.
This Attitude and contribution to framework seeks to balance both financial sustainability principles and base salary and benets initiatives.
and non-financial measures of performance to ensure that the appropriate factors are Salaries and benets are reviewed annually Remuneration levels are targeted to be considered prior to making awards, and and reect the relative skills and experience commercially competitive, on the following that the appropriate mix of cash and shareof, and contribution made by, the individual.
basis: based awards are made.
It is the groups policy to seek to set base t The most relevant competitive salaries and benets together known as Determination of remuneration levels reference points for remuneration levels gross remuneration at median market Qualitative and quantitative considerations are based on the scope of responsibility levels when compared like for like with peer form an integral part of the determination and individual contributions made group companies.
of overall levels of remuneration and total t The committee recognises that we The Human Resources division compensation for each individual.
operate an international business provides guidelines to business units and compete with both local and on recommended salary levels for all 116 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued appetite and various limits are being adhered employees within the organisation to ensure it is within the stated risk appetite as facilitate the review.
These guidelines mandated by the board of directors through to and that an appropriate interest rate and include a strategic message on how to set the board risk and capital committee by implication, risk premium is built into salary levels that will aid Investec in meeting BRCC.
The group monitors and controls every approved transaction.
The approval of transactions by these independent central its objectives while remaining true to risk exposure through credit, market, forums thus ensures that every transaction corporate values and incorporate guidance liquidity, operational and legal risk divisions undertaken by the group results in a on increasing levels to take account of the forums committees.
contribution to profit that has already been change in the cost of living over the year Risk consciousness and management is subject to some risk adjustment.
to ensure that salary levels always allow embedded in the organisational culture employees to afford a reasonable standard Our EVA model as described in detail below from the initiation of transactional activity of living and do not encourage a reliance on is principally applied to realised profits through to the monitoring of adherence variable remuneration.
against pre-determined targets above risk to mandates and limits and throughout and capital weighted returns.
In terms of everything we do.
Advisers are often engaged by either the EVA structure, capital is allocated based the Human Resources division or the The BRCC comprising both executive and on risk and therefore the higher the risk, the business units to obtain general benchmark non-executive directors meets six times higher the capital allocation and the higher information or to benchmark specic per annum and sets the overall risk appetite the hurdle return rate required.
This model positions to ensure that gross remuneration for the Investec group and determines the ensures that risk and capital management levels are market-driven and competitive categories of risk, the specic types of are embedded in key processes at both a so that levels of remuneration do not inhibit risks and the extent of such risks which group and transaction level which form the our ability to recruit the people we need to the group should undertake, as well as basis of the group's performance related develop our business.
the mitigation of risks and overall capital variable remuneration model thus balancing management and allocation process.
Senior the interests of all stakeholders.
Benets are targeted at competitive levels members of the groups risk management and are delivered through exible and Further, both the risk and compliance teams who provide information for the tailored packages.
Benets include pension functions are also embedded in the meeting packs and present and contribute schemes: life, disability and personal operating business units and are subject to to the committees discussions, attend accident insurance: medical cover: and review by the internal audit and compliance these meetings.
other benets, as dictated by competitive monitoring teams.
The risk and compliance local market practices.
Only salaries, not The capital committee is a sub-committee functions also provide, on an exception only annual bonuses, are pensionable.
basis, information relating to the behaviour of the BRCC and provides detailed input of individuals and business areas if there into the groups identication, quantication and measurement of its capital has been evidence of non-compliance or Variable short-term behaviour which gives rise to concerns requirements taking into account the capital regarding the riskiness of business requirements of the banking regulators.
It incentive: annual bonus undertaken.
determines the amount of internal capital that the group should hold and its minimum All employees are eligible to be considered EVA model: allocation of performance liquidity requirements taking into account for a discretionary annual bonus, subject related bonus pool all the associated risks plus a buffer for any inter alia to the factors set out above in the Our business strategy and associated risk future or unidentified risks.
This measure of section dealing with the determination of appetite, together with effective capital internal capital forms part of the basis for remuneration levels.
The structure of shortutilisation, underpin the EVA annual bonus determining the variable remuneration pools term incentives varies between employees allocation model.
of the various operating business units as of our three operating divisions: Asset discussed above.
Management, Wealth & Investment and Business units share in the annual bonus the Specialist Bank.
This reects differing pool to the extent that they have generated The executive risk review forum ERRF, regulatory requirements on the different a realised return on their allocated riskcomprising members of the executive and legal entities and also differing competitive adjusted capital base in excess of their the heads of the various risk functions, pressures in each distinct market.
Its responsibilities include target return on equity.
Many of the 4 potential future risks that the rm may approving limits and mandates, ensuring Specialist Banking: variable face are avoided through ensuring that the these are adhered to and that agreed short-term incentives bonus pools are based on actual realised recommendations to mitigate risk are risk-adjusted profits.
Risk-weighted returns form basis for variable remuneration levels The groups central credit and risk forums The bonus pools for non-operating provide transaction approval independent business units central services and head In our ordinary course of ofce functions are generated by a levy of the business unit on a deal-by-deal basis business we face a number payable by each operating business on and the riskiness of business undertaken of risks that could affect its operating profit.
This bonus pool may, is therefore evaluated and approved at our business operations, as initiation of the business through deal forum, in some years, be supplemented by a highlighted on page 32. investment committee and ERRF and is discretionary allocation as determined by Group Risk Management is independent reviewed and ratied at ERRF on a regular the chief executive officer and managing from the business units and monitors, basis.
These central forums provide a level director, and agreed by the remuneration manages and reports on the groups risk to of risk management by ensuring that risk committee.
Investec integrated annual report 2013 117 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued A detailed explanation of t The groups credit and risk forums Our EVA model has been consistently our capital management provide transaction approval applied for a period in excess of 10 years and encompasses the following elements: independent of the business unit on a and allocation process deal-by-deal basis adding a level of risk is provided on pages 80 t The profitability of each operating consciousness to the predetermined to 83. business unit is determined as if they are and risk-adjusted capital allocation a stand-alone business.
Gross revenue t Internal capital comprises the regulatory and required hurdle rates and thus is determined based on the activity of capital requirement taking into account ensure that each transaction generates the business, with arms length pricing a number of specified risks plus a a return that is commensurate with its applicable to inter-segment activity.
capital buffer which caters, inter alia, associated risk prole.
profits are determined as follows: for any unspecified or future risks not In terms of our EVA process, if business specically identied in the capital Realised gross revenue net margin and individual performance goals are planning process.
The Investec group and other income exceeded, the variable element of the then ensures that it actually holds Less: Funding costs total remuneration package is likely to capital in excess of this level of internal Less: Impairments for bad debts be substantially higher than the relevant capital target benchmark.
This ensures that overall Add back: Debt coupon or t Internal capital is allocated to each remuneration levels have the potential to preference share dividends paid out business unit via a comprehensive be positioned at the upper quartile level of the business where applicable for superior performance, in line with our analysis of the risks inherent within that Less: Direct operating costs overarching remuneration policy.
business and an assessment of the personnel, systems, etc costs of those risks Less: Group allocated costs In circumstances where an operating and residual charges certain business unit does not have an EVA t Hurdle rates or targeted returns are independent group functions are pool e. g. when it incurs a loss or when determined for each business unit it is a start-up, the chief executive officer provided on a centralised basis, based on the weighted average cost and managing director may consider with an allocation model applied of capital plus a buffer for trading a discretionary allocation to allow for a to charge out costs incurred to businesses to take into account modest bonus for those staff who were business units.
Costs allocated are additional risks not identied in the expected to contribute to the longer-term based on the full operational costs capital allocation process applied to for the particular central service interests of that business unit or the group, internal capital area, inclusive of the variable despite the lack of EVA profits in the short remuneration cost of the central t Targeted returns differ by business unit term, e. g. control functions, support staff service.
Allocation methodologies reecting the competitive economics and key business staff.
generally use cost drivers as the and shareholder expectation for the It should be noted the salaries and basis of allocation specic area of the business, and are proposed bonuses for employees set with reference to the degree of risk Less: profits earned on retained responsible for risk, internal audit and and the competitive benchmarks for earnings and statutory held capital compliance are not based on a formulaic each product line Add: Notional profit paid by centre approach and are independent of any on internal allocated capital revenues or profits generated by the t In essence varying levels of return business units where they work.
The level of Equals: net profits are required for each business unit rewards for these employees are assessed reecting the state of market maturity, t Capital allocated is a function of against the overall financial performance country of operation, risk, capital both regulatory and internal capital of the group: objectives based on their invested capital intensive businesses requirements, the risk assumed within function: and compliance with the various or expected expense base fee-based the business and our overall business non-financial aspects referred to above.
businesses strategy Key elements of the bonus allocation t Growth in profitability over time will 4 t The group has always held capital process are set out below: result in an increasing bonus pool, in excess of minimum regulatory as long as it is not achieved at the t A xed pre-determined percentage of requirements, and this principle is expense of capital efficiency any return in excess of the EVA hurdle perpetuated in our internal capital accrues to the business units EVA pool allocation process.
This process t Target returns must be reective ensures that risk and capital discipline of the inherent risk assumed in the t A portion of the total EVA pool is is embedded at the level of deal business.
Thus, an increase in absolute allocated towards the bonus pool initiation and incorporates independent profitability does not automatically result for central service and head ofce approval outside of the business unit in an increase in the annual bonus pool.
employees of transactions by the various risk and This approach allows us to embed risk credit committees t These bonus pools are reviewed and capital discipline in our business regularly by the appropriate processes.
These targets are subject to management and non-executive annual review committees to ensure that awards are only paid when it is appropriate to do 118 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued so, considering rm-wide performance to 60% deferral in respect of that portion t All deferrals in the form of EVA against non-financial risk both current forfeitable shares being either 50% or that exceeds the hurdle level.
The entire and future and compliance-based deferred amount is awarded in the form 100% of such deferral vest in equal objectives and in order to ensure that of forfeitable share awards vesting in three amounts at the end of 12 months, the payment of such discretionary equal tranches at the end of 12 months, 24 months and 36 months and are then subject to an appropriate period bonuses does not inhibit the groups 24 months and 36 months.
Where shares of retention, being six months.
ability to maintain raise its capital levels.
are being awarded to employees as part of All users of capital operate within a strict the deferral of performance bonus awards, Investec Asset Management: philosophical framework that requires a these are referred to as EVA shares.
These balancing of risk and reward and that is variable short-term incentives awards are made in terms of our existing designed to encourage behaviour in the long-term incentive plans refer below.
Investec Asset Management IAM interests of all stakeholders as opposed The entire amount of the annual recognises Investecs obligation to ensure to just employees bonus that is not deferred is payable up that all businesses within the group front in cash.
satisfy their obligations under the PRA t The EVA pools are calculated centrally Remuneration Code.
The IAM remuneration by the groups finance function and Deferral of annual bonus awards UK committee is responsible for considering, subject to audit as part of the year-end PRA Code staff within the Specialist agreeing and overseeing all elements of audit process Bank remuneration and the overall remuneration t Individual awards to PRA Code staff t Once the annual audit is complete, philosophy, principles and policy of IAM.
are determined based on EVA line managers in each business pools in the same manner as is IAM operates the following annual bonus unit will make discretionary bonus applicable to all staff as set out above, schemes which may result in annual recommendations for each team and subject to the group remuneration payments to employees: member taking into consideration policy and governance processes also qualitative and quantitative criteria as t Annual Discretionary Cash Bonus set out above mentioned above Scheme all employees of IAM are t Annual bonus awards to directors t Bonus recommendations are then currently eligible to be considered of the UK Specialist Bank excluding subject to an extensive geographic for a cash bonus payment under this executive directors who are employees review involving Human Resources, scheme of a separately regulated rm and local management and local t Deferred Bonus Plan participation in all annual bonus awards where total remuneration committees this scheme is determined on an annual variable remuneration exceeds t Thereafter, these recommendations are basis at the discretion of IAM based on 500 000 are subject to 60% deferral subject to a global review by executive the roles of individual employees.
t All other annual bonus awards to PRA management, before the remuneration The percentage of profit allocated to the Code staff are subject to 40% deferral committee review and approval process.
variable remuneration pool has been agreed t The 40% not deferred in the former The group remuneration committee at a xed participation rate and approved instance or the 60% not deferred in the specically reviews and approves the by both the DLC and IAM remuneration latter instance will be awarded as to individual remuneration packages of the committees.
The same xed participation 50% in cash and 50% in EVA forfeitable executive directors, persons discharging rate has been applied consistently for shares up-front EVA forfeitable shares managerial responsibilities, and PRA Code many years.
This structure has been a key staff.
The committee also reviews the contributor to the long-term success of t The up-front EVA forfeitable shares salaries and performance bonuses awarded IAM and encourages the staff to behave will vest immediately but will only be to a number of other senior and higher paid like owners.
We believe in aligning the released after a period of six months, employees across the group.
In addition, long-term interests of clients, shareholders which we consider to be an appropriate the committee specically reviews and and staff.
retention period approves the salaries and performance Individual annual bonus awards are bonuses awarded to each employee t Discretionary bonuses for PRA 4 approved by the IAM remuneration within the internal audit, compliance and Code staff who are not exempted committee and reviewed by the DLC risk functions, both in the business units by the fide minimis rates are subject remuneration committee annually.
and in the central functions, ensuring that to 40% deferral 60% if total variable such packages are competitive and are remuneration exceeds 500 000 Annual Discretionary Cash Bonus determined independently of the other after taking into account the value of Scheme ADCBS business areas.
In making these decisions LTIPs granted to each staff member Awards under the ADCBS are payable the committee relies on a combination of in the applicable financial year and entirely in cash.
The purpose of the cash external advice and supporting information which are included in deferred variable bonus is to reward behaviour and effort prepared internally by the group.
The deferred portion of against objectives and values, and retain discretionary awards to PRA Code Deferral of annual bonus awards nonkey employees.
The cash bonus pool staff will, at the election of the staff UK PRA Code staff within the Specialist determination is based on the profitability member, be made either entirely in the Bank form of EVA forfeitable shares, or 50% of IAM only.
In principle, there would be no All annual bonus awards exceeding in EVA forfeitable shares and 50% cash bonus payments should IAM be loss a pre-determined hurdle level are subject in cash making although this would be reviewed Investec integrated annual report 2013 119 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued where it was considered that bonus level and risk management for IAM and administration staff who support them payments were necessary in order to retain feeds her views into the remuneration directly staff and protect the business in the long decision making process, including sending t Discretionary Bonus Scheme relating term even if the business had been loss a risk report to the IAM remuneration to staff in non-client facing support making in the short term.
committee for consideration when making functions remuneration decisions.
Management information is provided to t Additional New Business Incentive In addition, IAM Human Resources and the IAM remuneration committee to ensure Scheme relating to staff primarily that IAMs financial results are put into the Compliance are responsible for ensuring in client facing roles who are direct context of the risk appetite of the business that the IAM remuneration committee generators of income.
takes into consideration financial and and the IAM remuneration committee is non-financial criteria, risk and compliance able to risk-adjust the cash bonus pool Awards under each of the three reports, and any other relevant information should they believe this is required given the schemes above are payable entirely in making decisions around remuneration.
risk taken and the overall financial results.
in cash and do not attract employer pension contributions.
In the case of the The primary determinant of the variable Deferred Bonus Plan DBOP Discretionary Incentive Scheme and the compensation pool available for distribution As noted above, participation in the DBOP Discretionary Bonus Scheme, the award is IAMs own annual profit.
There is an is determined on an annual basis at the may be paid directly to the individual annual budget against which the business discretion of IAM based on the roles of is measured.
subject to the deduction of PAYE and NIC individual employees.
The purpose of the or, at IW&Is discretion, as an additional DBOP is both to retain key employees and The variable compensation pool is allocated pension contribution.
to provide better alignment of the interests to business divisions and then to individuals with clients and to manage potential, based on divisional performance and the All employees are eligible to be considered currently unknown future risks.
This ensures that for an annual discretionary award under staff are rewarded appropriately for meeting one of the above schemes.
Awards relate The conditions for participation in the DBOP their objectives and keeping within the to financial years ending 31 March each are approved by the IAM remuneration values of the business.
An interim payment on account of the committee annually, based on the annual award is considered at the half-year remuneration requirements in the year being The oversight of conicts of interest stage.
This will take into consideration and the link between risk and reward is local market remuneration practices and achieved through a combination of effective Value adjustments that are considered relevant and required regulations.
remuneration components, designed to appropriate as a result of an individuals incorporate risk and of the dual operation level of non-financial performance being The DBOP awards are made in the form of of the DLC remuneration committee and below that expected by the business are investments into various funds managed IAM remuneration committee in ensuring made entirely to the discretionary incentive by IAM and with specic allocations for the appropriate and, where necessary, scheme or discretionary bonus scheme portfolio managers into their own funds.
independent oversight of both remuneration award of the employee concerned.
The deferral period is just over three years policy and outcomes.
and awards are only paid out under specic Where an IW&I executive director undertakes listed conditions.
The award does not Investec Wealth & Investment a role that is primarily client facing in a accrue to the employee until the end of the other than in South Africa: specic business unit, that director may deferral period and as such both the asset variable short-term incentives also be eligible to participate in the incentive and liability remain on the balance sheet of schemes of the relevant business unit.
Such Investec Wealth & Investment IW&I IAM until that time.
Employees forfeit their schemes comprise two elements: recognises Investecs obligation to ensure allocations if they resign or their employment that all businesses within the group terminates other than at the discretion of t The first element is a bonus pool which satisfy their obligations under the PRA IAM for redundancy, retirement, death or is calculated based on a formula that is Remuneration Code.
IW&I recognises that disability prior to the vesting date.
directly related to the profitability of the the policy, procedures and practices it has business unit.
The entire bonus pool, 4 Payments can only be made to participants adopted should not conict with the groups which is not subject to an upper limit, prior to a scheduled vesting date with the obligations under the PRA Remuneration is distributed to the employees of the consent of the IAM executive committee Code.
The IW&I remuneration committee is business unit on a discretionary basis.
and ultimately by the IAM remuneration responsible for considering, agreeing and A proportion of the annual discretionary committee.
overseeing all elements of remuneration bonus payable to such executive and the overall remuneration philosophy directors may be awarded as a pension IAMs governance processes, operating and policy of IW&I within the context of contribution, at the discretion of the within the context of the broader Investec the Investec groups agreed remuneration committee groups processes, ensure robust oversight philosophy and policy.
of reward and effective management of any t The second element rewards potential conicts of interest whilst reecting IW&I operates the following variable participating employees on an individual the need to link remuneration decisions with performance bonus schemes which may basis for new business that is gained IAMs risk appetite.
result in annual payments to employees: and then retained for a period of three The head of the IAM risk committee t Discretionary Incentive Scheme relating years following the end of the year in assesses the risk appetite, risk tolerance to staff in client facing roles and which the new business is gained.
120 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued The amount payable is based on a t Any violation of the groups culture and t Top up awards are made at the formula which is directly related to the values discretion of line management primarily income generated as a result of the new to ensure multi-year performance and t The long-term impact of the outcome business and is not subject to an upper long-term value generation.
on the group or relevant business unit limit.
All awards under this scheme All proposed long-term incentive awards are cash awards.
This latter scheme t External factors including market LTIPs are recommended by business represents a long-term incentive scheme conditions unit management, approved by the staff in accordance with the regulations and share executive committee and then the amounts earned and paid under this t Any other relevant factors.
remuneration committee before being scheme are separately disclosed in the awarded.
Awards of Investec plc LTIPs Specically for EVA share awards, where financial statements of IW&I.
are made to employees of Investec plc profits used to determine the original and awards of Investec Limited LTIPs for Investec Wealth & Investment: EVA bonus are materially reduced after employees of Investec Limited.
AT IAM, the bonus determination, the awards will South Africa variable shortLTIP awards are only generally considered be recalculated for such reduction and term incentives for employees who do not participate in the consideration given to clawback if any to As there are no overriding DBOP.
the extent that the prior periods EVA pool is regulatory requirements reduced and the extent to which it affected LTIP awards for non-PRA Code Staff are applicable to the business, each employee.
subject to 75% vesting at the end of four the policies applicable to the years and the final 25% at the end of the Specialist Bank are applied to fifth year, which we believe is appropriate for this business unit as set out on Long-term incentive: our business requirements.
PRA Code Staff are subject to 75% vesting share awards at the end of three and a half years and Other information on deferred the final 25% at the end of four and a half awards and clawback We have a number of share option and years, and are then subject to a six-month long-term share incentive plans that are provisions within the group retention period.
The awards are forfeited designed to align the interests of employees Employees who leave the employment of on termination, but good leaver discretion with those of shareholders and long-term Investec prior to vesting of these deferred is applied in exceptional circumstances.
organisational interests, and to build awards will lose their EVA forfeitable material share ownership over the long Retention is addressed through the shares other than as a result of retirement, term through share awards.
These share subject to the groups normal good long-term nature of awards granted option and incentive plans are also used in leaver provisions and approval process in which provides an element of lock-in for appropriate circumstances as a retention exceptional cases.
employees throughout the vesting period mechanism for key talent.
and allows for multi-year contribution to The deferred share awards are subject to performance and brand building.
Awards are made in the form of nil cost clawback of unpaid EVA.
The assessment options other than for countries where the of whether any clawback should be made Investec's share option and long-term to an individuals unvested award will be taxation of such awards is penal.
In these incentive plans are summarised below and undertaken within the following framework: cases awards are made in the form of include: our current long-term incentive forfeitable shares, conditional awards or plans and several plans that are no longer t Where there is reasonable evidence of market strike options.
used including those relevant to executive employee misbehaviour directors, or which were introduced prior In principle all employees are eligible to the implementation of the DLC structure.
t Where the rm or operating business for long-term incentives.
Awards are Some of these plans still have outstanding unit suffers a material downturn in its considered by the remuneration committee awards.
financial performance and made only in the 42-day period following the release of our interim or t Where the rm or business unit suffers final financial results in accordance with a material failure of risk management.
4 the Association of British Insurers ABI In these cases, management and the guidelines.
These awards comprise three remuneration committee will take into elements, namely: account the following factors in determining the extent if any to which the quantum t New starter awards are made based of deferred awards should be subject to on a fide facto non-discretionary basis clawback: using an allocation table linked to salary levels t The extent to which the individual had control over the outcome t General allocation awards are also fide facto non-discretionary awards of the t Failure of internal control systems same quantum as new starter awards t The impact of the risk prole of the and are made to employees who have relevant member of the group or not had any other share award in a business unit three year period Investec integrated annual report 2013 121 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued Summary of Investecs share option and long-term incentive plans 0QUJPOT 5PUBM %BUF.
BYJNVN HSBOUFE JTTVFE BT BU JNQMF 0QUJPO BXBSE QFS 1FSGPSNBODF EVSJOH UIF.
BSDI 1 2 3 1MBO &MJHJCJMJUZ NFOUFE TIBSFT JOEJWJEVBM DPOEJUJPOT 7FTUJOH QFSJPE ZFBS 2013 Long-term incentive plans Investec 1 t New and 16 March Investec plc t Cumulative None t Nil cost options: 12 011 801 Number: Limited Share existing full-time 2005 limit of 75% end of year 47 586 377 7 Incentive Plan employees 2 500 000 four and 25% nil cost t Excluding across all end of year five % of issued options employees in option plans and for PRA share capital of EVA share SA, Botswana, t Excluding EVA Code staff 75% company: 7.9% awards Namibia and awards at the end of market strike Mauritius t In any financial three and a half options t Excluding year: 1 x years and 25% executive remuneration at the end of four directors package and a half years plus a six-month retention t EVA share awards: up to three years from date of award t Market strike 16 000 Number: options: 25% 16 000 end of year two, three, four and % of issued five share capital of company: 0.0% Investec Limited t New and 16 March Investec t Cumulative None t Nil cost options: 8 609 725 Number: Share Incentive existing full-time 2005 Limited and limit of 75% end of year 44 300 546 7 Plan employees in 2 500 000 four and 25% Investec plc nil cost SA, Botswana, across all end of year five % of issued options Namibia and option plans t EVA share share capital of EVA share Mauritius t Excluding EVA awards: up to company: awards t Excluding awards two years from 5.0% executive t In any financial date of award directors year: 1 x remuneration package Share plans not currently in use Investec plc Executive directors 14 November Matching A maximum of Vesting scale 75% end of year Last grant Number: 8 Share Matching 2005 awards of 750 000 investment over the period four and 25% end of made on 3 150 000 Plan 2005 shares may be year five Investec based on 1 July 2010 invested in the plan % of issued Limited and normalised EPS and no 4 each time the plan share capital of Investec plc growth in excess longer in use is operated company: shares in the of UK RPI, with 0.5% ratio of 1:1 0% vesting if against shares EPS growth is invested in less than 4% plan by the plus RPI p. a. and 100% vesting if director EPS growth is in excess of RPI plus 12% p. a.
122 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued 0QUJPOT 5PUBM %BUF.
BSDI 1 2 3 1MBO &MJHJCJMJUZ NFOUFE TIBSFT JOEJWJEVBM DPOEJUJPOT 7FTUJOH QFSJPE ZFBS 2013 Share plans not currently in use continued Investec plc t New and 28 August Investec plc t Cumulative Growth in Tranches of 25% 84 750 Number: existing full-time limit of Share Option 2002 headline EPS each on the second, 478 152 employees 2 500 000 Plan 2002 UK RPI plus third, fourth and fifth t Excluding across all option unapproved 3% compounded anniversaries % of issued employees in plans excluding plan expired annually over share capital of SA, Botswana, EVA awards August 2012 the period of the company: Namibia and t In any financial grant 0.8% Mauritius year: 1 x t UK employees remuneration grants exceeding package 30 000 t Directors and executives Investec plc t New and existing 28 August Investec plc t Cumulative Growth in Tranches of 50%, Last grant Number: Share Option UK full-time 2002 limit of headline EPS 25% and 25% at made on 35 950 employees 2 500 000 Plan 2002 UK RPI plus the third, fourth and 17 June 2003 grants up to the across all option approved plan 3% compounded fifth anniversaries % of issued value of 30 000 plans excluding expired August annually over respectively share capital of t Directors and EVA awards 2012 the period of the company: executives t In any financial grant 0.0% year: 1 x remuneration package Investec plc 2 June Investec plc None Variable with a None Number: t New and t Cumulative existing full-time limit of Deferred Bonus 2008 minimum non- 147 875 employees 2 500 000 Plan 2008 dealing period of t Excluding across all option one year % of issued employees in plans excluding share capital of SA, Botswana, EVA awards company: Namibia and t In any financial 0.0% Mauritius year: 1 x remuneration package 1.
The limits for allocations to employees and executive management during a financial year may be exceeded if the directors determine that exceptional circumstances make it desirable that options should be granted in excess of that limit.
The Investec plc Share Option Plan 2002 unapproved plan is operated in jurisdictions where the application of the other schemes is less favourable to participants.
This scheme provides for performance conditions to be applied to awards, which are determined by the committee at the time the awards are made.
This note does not apply to the Share Matching Plan 2005 which has different performance conditions as approved by shareholders further information is available on our website.
This represents the number of awards made to all participants.
For further details, see the directors report on page 6 in volume three.
More details on the directors shareholdings are also provided in tables accompanying this report.
Dilution limits: Investec is committed to following the ABI guidelines and accordingly, as from the date of the implementation of our DLC structure 29 July 2002, the maximum number of new shares which may be issued by the company under all of the share plans in respect of grants made after July 2002 may not exceed 10% of the issued share capital of the company over a rolling 10 year period.
We have, since our listing date, complied with both the 10% in 10 years guideline for discretionary and non-discretionary awards in aggregate as well as the 5% in 10 years guideline for discretionary awards.
The committee regularly monitors the utilisation of dilution limits and available headroom to ensure that these guidelines are complied with.
The issued share capital of Investec plc and Investec Limited at 31 March 2013 was 605.2 million shares and 279.6 million shares respectively.
The market price of an Investec plc share as at 31 March 2013 was 4.59 2012: 3.82, ranging from a low of 3.10 to a high of 5.14 during the financial year.
The market price of an Investec Limited share as at 31 March 2013 was R64.26 2012: R47.16, ranging from a low of R41.31 to a high of R69.89 during the financial year.
The rules of these long-term incentive plans do not allow awards to be made to executive directors.
The performance conditions in respect of these awards were not met and accordingly the awards will be forfeited on 1 July 2013.
Investec integrated annual report 2013 123 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued Discretionary extended pension benets policy Other remuneration All proposed extended pension payments made to employees upon reaching retirement structures should be reviewed by the remuneration committee for alignment with appropriate laws, policy and regulation.
Guaranteed variable remuneration Guaranteed variable remuneration Non-executive directors remuneration comprises all forms of remuneration whose The board agrees and determines the fees of non-executive directors and the fees are value can be determined prior to award.
The boards policy is that fees should reect individual responsibilities This includes, but is not limited to sign-on, and membership of board committees.
The increase in non-executive directors fees for buy-out and guarantee awards.
Guaranteed the forthcoming year reects current market conditions with the focus on controlling xed variable awards will not be awarded, paid remuneration and additional time commitment required.
Their fee structure covers the dual or provided to any individual within the roles that the directors perform for the UK listed Investec plc and the South African listed Investec plc group unless they are: Investec Limited boards.
"The fee structure for non-executive directors for the 2013 and t Exceptional 2014 financial years is shown below: t In the context of hiring new staff ""T BQQSPWFE CZ UIF CPBSE GPS UIF t Limited to the first year of service."
OBODJBM OBODJBM The remuneration committee at least PO FYFDVUJWF EJSFDUPST SFNVOFSBUJPO ZFBS ZFBS annually reviews guaranteed variable remuneration payments and the number of Chairmans total fee 250 000 per year 255 000 per year guarantees awarded to ensure that they are Basic non-executive director fee 65 000 per year 67 000 per year only granted in exceptional circumstances.
Senior independent director 5 000 per year 5 500 per year Chairman of the DLC audit committee 55 000 per year 57 000 per year Retention awards Chairman of the DLC remuneration committee 37 000 per year 38 000 per year Investec only pays retention awards to Member of the DLC audit committee 16 000 per year 16 500 per year serving staff in exceptional circumstances.
Member of the DLC remuneration committee 14 500 per year 15 000 per year In all such cases, Human Resources shall review proposed payments to ensure Member of DLC nominations and directors that they are in line with this policy and affairs committee 10 500 per year 11 000 per year any other relevant regulation.
Additionally Member of the board risk and capital for PRA Code staff, the remuneration committee 13 000 per year 13 500 per year committee shall review all proposed awards.
Board member in attendance of the board Circumstances where Investec plc will risk and capital committee 10 500 per year 11 000 per year consider paying a retention award are in IBL board member in attendance of the board the case of a major restructuring of the risk and capital committee R125 000 per year R130 000 per year company or any subsidiary or one of its Member of the Investec Bank plc board 11 500 per year 12 000 per year business units for instance in the startup of a new business line, or the closure Member of the Investec Bank Limited board R250 000 per year R260 000 per year of a business line, where the retention of Member of the Investec Limited audit individuals is essential to the completion committee who is not a DLC audit committee of the task.
A valid business case for member R120 000 per year R125 000 per year the retention of the individual must be IBL board member in attendance at the DLC presented in order for a retention award to nominations and directors affairs committee R68 000 per year R70 000 per year be approved and the PRA should be notied 4 prior to the retention award being made Fees are also payable for any additional time committed to the group including attendance to PRA Code staff, and should consider at certain other meetings.
seeking guidance on the appropriateness of There is no requirement for non-executive directors to hold shares in a group company.
The retention awards for certain individuals.
group has left this choice to the discretion of each non-executive director.
Severance awards Severance payments by Investec plc or one of its subsidiary companies for the early termination of a contract are at executive managements absolute discretion and must reect performance achieved over time and be designed in a way that does not reward failure.
Severance payments for PRA Code staff individuals shall be subject to approval by the DLC remuneration committee.
124 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued aggregate annual payouts under such be noted that our Asset Management Governance and Wealth Management businesses schemes have been classied as level 3 entities Compliance and governance t Review and approve, within the terms under the proportionality rules of the PRA statement of the agreed policy, the total individual Remuneration Code.
remuneration packages of executive The remuneration report complies with directors and executive management the provisions of the UK Corporate Composition and role of the including, where appropriate, bonuses, Governance Code 2012, section 420 of the committee incentive payments and share scheme UK Companies Act 2006, the UK Financial George Alford, after having served on the awards Conduct Authority listing rules, the PRA board and the committee for over nine Remuneration Code, the South African years, resigned from the committee on t Review and approve, within the terms King III Code of Corporate Practice and 31 March 2013.
Olivia Dickson, who has of the agreed policy, the total individual Conduct, the South African Companies served on the committee for two years, has remuneration packages of members of Act 2008 and the JSE Limited listing assumed responsibility as acting chair of the internal audit, risk and compliance requirements.
functions the committee for a period of six months.
Bradley Fried was appointed as a Scope of our remuneration t Oversee any major changes in our member of the committee effective from policy employee benefit structures 3 April 2013.
Fani Titi attends the meetings The Investec group aims to apply as a permanent invitee.
t Ensure that the comments, remuneration policies to executive directors recommendations and rules within Three of the current members and employees that are largely consistent the UK and South Africa pertaining to of the committee are deemed to across the group, but recognises that remuneration are respected.
be independent as discussed on certain parts of the group are governed by page 86. local regulations that may contain more The committee is authorised by the board onerous requirements in certain respects.
to seek any information it requires from any Members of the committee are In those cases, the higher requirements are employee in order to perform its duties.
also members of the groups applied to that part of the group.
This is board risk and capital committee The committees terms of reference are relevant to Investec plc and its subsidiary and or audit committee as subject to annual review and are available companies that are subject to the PRA discussed on pages 90 to 93 and on our website.
Remuneration Code as a level 2 pages 95 and 96, thus bringing organisation as dened therein, and in risk and control mechanisms into Meetings particular in relation to PRA Code staff.
Additionally, where any aspect of our The remuneration committee remuneration policy contravenes local laws met 13 times during the financial The committees principal responsibilities or regulations, the local laws or regulations year.
An attendance schedule is and objectives are to: shall prevail.
provided on page 93. t Determine, develop and agree with We believe that our remuneration policy The company secretary of Investec plc the board, the framework or broad is consistent with and complies with acts as the secretary.
Executive directors policy for the remuneration of executive the principles and rules of the PRA do not attend meetings of the committee, directors and executive management Remuneration Code in respect of Investec unless invited or required to do so by the comprising individuals discharging plc and its subsidiary companies.
We also chairman of the committee.
The chairman managerial responsibilities, who are believe that this policy is consistent with the global heads of our core areas of of the committee reports on the activities of and complies with the substance of the the committee at each meeting of the full activity and are members of our global Financial Stability Boards Principles for board.
operations forum Sound Compensation Practices.
t Commission and consider the results of Advisers to the committee and The following Investec plc group entities an annual central and internal review of the company are separately regulated by the PRA and 4 policy implementation Where appropriate, the committee as such maintain their own remuneration has access to independent executive t Ensure that qualied and experienced policies separate from the Investec group remuneration consultants.
The selection management and executives are policy and in line with such entitys own risk provided with appropriate incentives to of the advisers is at the discretion of the prole and business activities: encourage enhanced performance and committee chairman, and Investec funds t Investec Asset Management Limited are, in a fair and responsible manner, any expenses relating to their appointment.
rewarded for their contribution to the t Investec Wealth & Investment Limited During the financial year, the committee success of the group and alignment continued to use the services of its with the corporate objectives and t Investec Bank plc advisers, New Bridge Street, which among business strategy other things specically reviewed and t Hargreave Hale Limited.
t Review and approve the design of, and provided information on executive share Under the PRA Remuneration Code, determine targets and objectives for incentive schemes, industry consultation Investec Bank plc is the only group entity any performance related pay schemes papers, regulations and developments which is classied as being level 2.
It should operated by the group and approve the with respect to remuneration practices and Investec integrated annual report 2013 125 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued Executive directors are permitted to accept our alignment to them.
In addition, they inclusion based on its market capitalisation continued to review and provide information at that date.
We have included the total outside appointments on external boards on appropriate benchmarks, industry and shareholder return of that index for or committees provided these are not comparable organisations remuneration illustrative purposes.
deemed to interfere with the business of the practices.
Any fees earned by executives in The graph below shows the cumulative valued in the ongoing review of our this regard are forfeited to Investec.
shareholder return for a holding of our remuneration practices.
New Bridge Street shares in green in Pounds Sterling on Performance graph: total is a signatory to the UK Remuneration the LSE, compared with the average total Consultants Groups Code of Conduct shareholder return shareholder return of other members of the and does not conduct any material We have implemented a DLC structure, in FTSE 350 General Finance Index and the work for the company other than for the terms of which we have primary listings in FTSE 100 Index.
It shows that, at committee and is part of Aon plc.
The listing on 31 March 2013, a hypothetical company also retained the services of the London Stock Exchange LSE took 100 invested in Investec plc at  to assist with the place on 29 July 2002.
We have been listed 31 March 2008 would have generated a development of executive director incentive in South Africa since 1986. total return of 68 compared with a arrangements and the implications of return of 19 if invested in the FTSE 350 various regulatory developments including Schedule 8 of the UK Large and MediumGeneral Finance Index and a return of the CRD IV.
sized Companies and Groups Accounts 36 if invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
and Report Regulations 2008 requires Furthermore, we have used the services Investec plc has therefore outperformed the this report to include a performance graph of Linklaters, who have advised this year FTSE 350 General Finance Index and the of Investec plcs total shareholder return mainly on the creation of a new share plan FTSE 100 Index over the period.
TSR performance against that of a broad Executive Incentive Plan 2013, a number During the period from 1 April 2012 to market index.
We found it difficult to locate of issues pertaining to our existing incentive 31 March 2013, the return to shareholders an appropriate group of companies to plans and aspects of the implementation of of Investec plc measured in Pounds the PRA Remuneration Code.
Linklaters is benchmark ourselves against because Sterling and Investec Limited measured in one of Investec plcs legal advisers.
A number of Rands was 24.6% and 41.2%, respectively.
companies within the FTSE 350 General This compares to a 29.7% for the FTSE Certain specialist divisions within the group, Finance Index conduct similar activities 350 General Finance Index and a return of for example, Human Resources and the to us, although they do not necessarily 13.4% for the FTSE 100 Index.
Staff Shares Schemes division, provide have the same geographical prole.
supporting information and documentation Nevertheless, to date this has been the The market price of our shares on the relating to matters that are presented to most appropriate index against which to LSE was 4.59 as at 31 March 2013, the committee.
This includes, for example, measure our performance on the LSE.
ranging from a low of 3.10 to a high of comparative data and motivations for Towards the end of our 2010 financial 5.14 during the financial year.
Furthermore, proposed salary, bonus and share awards.
year, Investec plc was included as a new the market price of our shares on the JSE The variable remuneration pools are entrant into the FTSE 100 Index.
Investec Limited was R64.26 as at 31 March 2013, determined by our finance teams taking into plc however, exited this index during ranging from a low of R41.31 to a high of account risk-adjusted capital requirements December 2011 as it did not qualify for reR69.89 during the financial year.
and after eliminating unrealised gains.
The employees within these specialist divisions, which provide support to the committee, Total shareholder return are not board directors and are not appointed by the committee.
200 Service contracts and terms of 176 175 168 employment 161 Each executive director is entitled to receive 150 245 4 136 annually gross remuneration comprising a salary and other benets and is also eligible 125 119 116 108 118 for an annual bonus, the amount of which 100 100 100 100 will be determined by the remuneration 92 100 81 92 committee.
Furthermore, the executive 72 Investec plc LSE listing 50 directors may elect to sacrifice a portion total shareholder return Total shareholder return of their annual gross remuneration to 25 54 of the FTSE350 General receive company benets such as a travel Finance index allowance and medical aid.
Total shareholder return of 0 the FTSE100 index 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 The full costs of these benets are deducted from their gross remuneration with the residual then being in effect their Source: Datastream.
Further information is provided on pages 127 and 128.
"126 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Rebased to 100 value Remuneration report Remuneration report continued Audited information Directors annual remuneration The following table shows a breakdown of the annual remuneration excluding equity awards of directors for the year ended 31 March 2013: 4BMBSJFT ""OOVBM EJSFDUPSTh CPOVT m GFFT BOE PUIFS 5PUBM PUIFS Gross ""OOVBM EFGFSSFE Total Total SFNVOFSBUJPO CFOFUT remuneration CPOVT m DBTI DPNQPOFOU remuneration remuneration 3 1 2 5 2013 2013 2013 DPNQPOFOU 2013 2013 2012 BNF b b 2013 b &YFDVUJWF EJSFDUPST 5 S Koseff chief executive officer cash component 360041 89959 450000 300 000 750 000 450000 deferred component 1 200 000 1 200 000 5 B Kantor managing director cash component 419196 30804 450000 300 000 750 000 450000 deferred component 1 200 000 1 200 000 GR Burger group risk and finance 5 director cash component 307294 51688 358982 300 000 658 982 370681 deferred component 1 200 000 1 200 000 7 HJ du Toit cash component 391378 59535 450913 2 180 000 2 630 913 441678 deferred component 2 180 000 2 180 000 4 327 500 5PUBM JO 1PVOET 4UFSMJOH PO FYFDVUJWF EJSFDUPST Sir D Prosser joint chairman 250000 250000 250000 176832 F Titi joint chairman 250000 250000 250000 218548 SE Abrahams 285563 285563 285563 283972 GFO Alford 168408 168408 168408 148000 CA Carolus 70431 70431 70431 67705 PKO Crosthwaite 143 998 143 998 143 998 86500 OC Dickson 95000 95000 95000 90500 B Fried 148000 148000 148000 145500 8 D Friedland 8094 8094 8094 H Fukuda OBE 79259 79259 79259 72000 4 IR Kantor 76500 76500 76500 73000 MP Malungani 102029 102029 102029 99767 PRS Thomas 205276 205276 205276 208445 5PUBM JO 1PVOET 4UFSMJOH m m m 5PUBM JO 1PVOET 4UFSMJOH 1."
Gross remuneration comprises base salary and other benets see points 2 and 3 below.
Gross remuneration of S Koseff and B Kantor remained the same as the prior year and HJ du Toits gross remuneration increased by 2.1%.
The gross remuneration of GR Burger is determined in Rands and converted into Pounds Sterling.
In Rand terms GR Burgers gross remuneration increased by 5.1% from R3 550 000 in March 2012 to R3 733 333 in March 2013.
Gross remuneration increases for other employees across the group have generally been in the range of 5% to 10%.
The executive directors receive other benets which may include pension schemes: life, disability and personal accident insurance: and medical cover, on similar terms to other senior executives.
Determination of bonuses are explained on pages 117 to 119 and as discussed on page 119 a portion of bonuses are paid in cash and a portion is deferred as required in terms of the PRA Code.
In 2012 S Koseff, B Kantor and GR Burger waived their bonuses.
Investec integrated annual report 2013 127 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued 5.
"A breakdown of the components of the reward packages for the executive directors in the 2012 financial year is as follows: ""OOVBM ""OOVBM 5PUBM CPOVT m CPOVT m Gross 5PUBM PUIFS DBTI EFGFSSFE remuneration remuneration 4BMBSZ CFOFUT DPNQPOFOU DPNQPOFOU BNF b b b b S Koseff chief executive officer 344791 105209 450000 450000 B Kantor managing director 410640 39360 450000 450000 GR Burger group risk and finance director 315163 55518 370681 370681 HJ du Toit 391378 50300 441678 4327500 4769178 5PUBM JO 1PVOET 4UFSMJOH m 6."
S Koseff, B Kantor and GR Burger are classied as PRA Code staff.
Notwithstanding that HJ du Toit is currently a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited: he does not perform Investec group-wide executive activities.
Accordingly, HJ du Toit and any remuneration benets due to him are subject to the remuneration policies, rules and regulations applicable to employees of Investec Asset Management and not the remuneration policies, rules and regulations applicable to other entities within the Investec group.
D Friedland was appointed on 1 March 2013.
Retirement benets None of the executive directors belong to a dened benefit pension scheme and all are members of one of our dened contribution pension schemes.
The total contribution to these schemes, payable by the company, included in the total salary of the director or included in benets paid as set out in the tables above, is as follows: 2013 2012 BNF b &YFDVUJWF EJSFDUPST S Koseff chief executive officer 56468 64659 B Kantor managing director 23954 23931 GR Burger group risk and finance director 41547 43402 HJ du Toit 50000 50000 5PUBM JO 1PVOET 4UFSMJOH Executive directors total assumed cost to company The table below provides an indication of the total cost to the company in relation to executive directors remuneration.
Total cash payments and benets reect the information disclosed in the tables above.
The IFRS accounting charge in terms of IFRS 2 reects the cost that has been expensed by the company in its income statement in the relevant period in relation to share options and long-term incentive awards that have been granted to the executives.
"Further details on these equity awards are provided in the tables that follow: Accounting ""DDPVOUJOH 4 Salary, bonus IFRS charge Total 4BMBSZ CPOVT '34 DIBSHF and other assumed 5PUBM BTTVNFE in relation to BOE PUIFS JO SFMBUJPO UP benets equity awards remuneration CFOFUT FRVJUZ BXBSET SFNVOFSBUJPO 2013 2013 expense 2012 2012 FYQFOTF BNF b b b &YFDVUJWF EJSFDUPST S Koseff chief executive officer 1 950 000 947458 1 002 542 450000 288512 738512 B Kantor managing director 1 950 000 1090680 859 320 450000 315471 765471 GR Burger group risk and finance director 1 858 982 947458 911 524 370681 307877 62804 HJ du Toit 4 810 913 675848 5 486 761 4769178 833535 5602713 5PUBM JO 1PVOET 4UFSMJOH Accounting IFRS2 charges have been reversed in respect of awards lapsed, where performance conditions have not been met."
Refer to the notes to the directors interest in the Share Matching Plan on page 130.
128 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued Directors shareholdings, options and long-term incentive awards The companys register of directors interests contains full details of directors shareholdings, options and long-term incentive awards.
The tables that follow provide information on the directors shareholdings, options and long-term incentive awards for the year ended 31 March 2013.
"Directors shareholdings in Investec plc and Investec Limited shares as at 31 March 2013 #FOFDJBM BOE #FOFDJBM BOE PG OPO CFOFDJBM JOUFSFTU OPO CFOFDJBM JOUFSFTU TIBSFT PG TIBSFT 1 1 1 1 OWFTUFD QMD JO JTTVF OWFTUFDJNJUFE JO JTTVF ""QSJM 31 March."
The number of shares in issue and share prices for Investec plc and Investec Limited over the period is provided on page 123.
"Directors interest in preference shares as at 31 March 2013 OWFTUFD QMD OWFTUFDJNJUFE OWFTUFD #BOLJNJUFE 4 ""QSJM 31 March ""QSJM 31 March ""QSJM 31 March BNF 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 &YFDVUJWF EJSFDUPST S Koseff 101198 101198 3000 3000 4000 4000 t The market price of an Investec plc preference share as at 31 March 2013 was R56.00 2012: R45.00 t The market price of an Investec Limited preference share as at 31 March 2013 was R85.10 2012: R93.41 t The market price of an Investec Bank Limited preference share as at 31 March 2013 was R91.90 2012: R98.25."
Investec integrated annual report 2013 129 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued Directors interest in options as at 31 March 2013 Investec plc shares The directors do not have any interest in options over Investec plc shares.
Investec Limited shares The directors do not have any interest in options over Investec Limited shares.
Directors interest in long-term incentive plans as at 31 March 2013 Number of SPTT 0QUJPOT Investec Balance.
BSLFU HBJOT HSBOUFE plc shares at QSJDF BU NBEF PO &YFSDJTFE MBQTFE %BUF &YFSDJTF at 1 April EVSJOH EVSJOH 31 March EBUF PG EBUF PG 1FSJPE BNF PG HSBOU QSJDF 2012 UIF ZFBS UIF ZFBS 2013 FYFSDJTF FYFSDJTF FYFSDJTBCMF HJ du Toit 25 June 2007 Nil 93750 93750 3.65 342637 25 June 2009 Nil 250000 250000 75% is exercisable on 25 June 2013 and 25% on 25 June 2014 1 July 2010 Nil 750000 750000 75% is exercisable on 1 July 2014 and 25% on 1 July 2015 The group has made awards in respect of nil cost options in the capital of Investec plc for nil consideration pursuant to the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
The awards are in accordance with the determination of the remuneration committee and with the rules of the LTIP.
These awards were made prior to HJ du Toit becoming an executive director.
HJ du Toit exercised his options and sold 93 750 Investec plc shares on 25 June 2012, when the share price was 3.65 per share.
Directors interest in the Share Matching Plan 2005 as at 31 March 2013 Number of 0QUJPOT Investec Balance.
BSLFU SPTT HBJOT HSBOUFE plc shares at QSJDF BU NBEF PO &YFSDJTFE MBQTFE %BUF &YFSDJTF at 1 April EVSJOH EVSJOH 31 March EBUF PG EBUF PG 1FSJPE BNF PG HSBOU QSJDF 2012 UIF ZFBS UIF ZFBS 2013 FYFSDJTF FYFSDJTF FYFSDJTBCMF S Koseff 25 June 2009 Nil 300000 300000 The entire award was forfeited on 25 June 2012 1 July 2010 Nil 750000 750000 The entire award will be forfeited on 1 July 2013 B Kantor 25 June 2009 Nil 300000 300000 The entire award was forfeited on 25 June 2012 1 July 2010 Nil 750000 750000 The entire award 4 will be forfeited on 1 July 2013 GR Burger 25 June 2009 Nil 300000 300000 The entire award was forfeited on 25 June 2012 1 July 2010 Nil 750000 750000 The entire award will be forfeited on 1 July 2013 The performance conditions in respect of the awards made on 25 June 2009 were not met and accordingly the awards were forfeited on 25 June 2012.
The performance conditions in respect of the awards made on 1 July 2010 were not met and accordingly the awards will be forfeited on 1 July 2013.
This plan was approved by shareholders at an extraordinary general meeting held on 14 November 2005.
Further details on the plan are available on our website.
No additional matching awards were made during the year.
130 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued Summary: total interest in Investec plc and Investec Limited ordinary shares, options and long-term incentive awards as at 31 March 2013 Investec plc #FOFDJBMMZ BOE OPO 4IBSFPOH UFSN Balance at #BMBODF BU CFOFDJBMMZ JODFOUJWF.
3152135 3452135 HJ du Toit 1 000 000 1000000 1093750 5PUBM OVNCFS m As discussed on page 130, all of these share awards will be forfeited on 1 July 2013.
Investec Limited #FOFDJBMMZ BOE OPO 4IBSF Balance at #BMBODF BU CFOFDJBMMZ.
BSDI BNF IFME 0QUJPOT 1MBO 2013 2012 S Koseff 1809399 m 1809399 1809330 B Kantor 4201000 m 4 201000 3801000 GR Burger 737 076 m 737 076 1037076 HJ du Toit 604740 604 740 604740 5PUBM OVNCFS m m The number of shares in issue and share prices for Investec plc and Investec Limited over the period are provided below.
Summary: Investec plc and Investec Limited share statistics 31 March.
BSDI JHI PWFSPX PWFS 2013 2012 UIF ZFBS UIF ZFBS Investec plc share price 4.59 3.82 5.14 3.10 Investec Limited share price R64.26 R47.16 R69.89 R41.31 Number of Investec plc shares in issue million 605.2 598.3 Number of Investec Limited shares in issue million 279.6 276.0 South African Companies Act, 2008 disclosures Subsequent to regulatory developments in South Africa, Investec Limited is required to disclose the remuneration of those individuals that are dened by the South African Companies Act No 71 of 2008 as amended, read together with the Companies Regulations 2011 together the Act, as Prescribed Ofcers.
In keeping with the groups integrated global management structure as well as the three distinct business activities of the group, i. e. Asset 4 Management, Wealth & Investment and Specialist Banking, the Prescribed Ofcers for Investec Limited, as per the Act are the following global heads of the groups three distinct business activities: t Asset Management Hendrik du Toit t Wealth & Investment Steve Elliott Investec integrated annual report 2013 131 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued t Specialist Banking Stephen Koseff Bernard Kantor Glynn Burger.
Hendrik du Toit, Stephen Koseff, Bernard Kantor and Glynn Burger are also the four executive directors of Investec Limited and their remuneration is disclosed on page 127.
Steve Elliott is remunerated by Investec plc a UK domiciled company and is not required to disclose his remuneration under the South African Companies Act.
Directors remuneration alignment of interests with shareholders unaudited The table below reects the compound annual growth rate CAGR in directors remuneration and a number of key performance-related variables since our year ended 31 March 2004.
"BSDI 2013 $"" 3 TJODF million b NJMMJPO."
BSDI Executive directors gross remuneration 1.3 0.9 3.6% Executive directors annual bonus 4.5 1.9 10.2% Executive directors total remuneration 5.8 2.8 8.4% Non-executive directors total fees 1.8 1.0 7.2% Adjusted attributable earnings to shareholders 316.7 106.2 12.9% Adjusted EPS pence 37.0 20.8 6.6% Total shareholders equity 4005.0 805.0 19.5% Total shareholders return Investec plc in Pounds Sterling 308.0 100 13.3% Net tangible asset value per share pence 318.2 83.0 16.1% Additional remuneration disclosures unaudited PRA Remuneration Code disclosures In terms of the PRAs Chapter on Disclosure Requirements BIPRU 11.5.
18 the bank in the UK is required to make certain quantitative and qualitative remuneration disclosures on an annual basis with respect to PRA Code Staff.
Code staff are dened as those employees including directors whose professional activities could have a material impact on the banks risk prole.
A total of 45 individuals were PRA Code Staff in 2013.
The banks qualitative remuneration disclosures are provided on pages 113 to 126.
The information contained in the tables below sets out the banks quantitative disclosures in respect of PRA Code Staff for the year ended 4 31 March 2013.
132 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued Aggregate remuneration by remuneration type 4FOJPS 0UIFS b NJMMJPO NBOBHFNFOU $PEF TUBGG Total 'JYFE SFNVOFSBUJPO 7BSJBCMF SFNVOFSBUJPO Cash 2.1 2.7 4.8 Deferred cash 1.9 1.9 3.8 Deferred shares 4.4 7.4 11.8 Deferred shares long-term incentive awards 3.3 1.0 4.3 0UIFS Options long-term incentive awards made in current year 0.3 0.1 0.4 Options long-term incentive awards made in prior years 1.8 1.7 0.1 5PUBM BHHSFHBUF SFNVOFSBUJPO BOE EFGFSSFE JODFOUJWFT Total number of employees receiving variable remuneration was 33.
Information based on the IFRS 2 accounting charge that has been expensed by the company in its income statement during the financial year.
Additional disclosure on deferred variable remuneration 4FOJPS 0UIFS b NJMMJPO NBOBHFNFOU $PEF TUBGG Total Deferred unvested remuneration outstanding at the beginning of the year 20.0 12.7 32.7 Deferred unvested remuneration adjustment employees no longer Code staff 6.8 2.6 9.4 Deferred remuneration awarded in year 9.6 10.3 19.9 Deferred remuneration reduced in year through performance adjustments Deferred remuneration vested in year 4.6 2.1 6.7 %FGFSSFE VOWFTUFE SFNVOFSBUJPO PVUTUBOEJOH BU UIF FOE PG UIF ZFBS 4FOJPS 0UIFS b NJMMJPO NBOBHFNFOU $PEF TUBGG Total %FGFSSFE VOWFTUFE SFNVOFSBUJPO PVUTUBOEJOH BU UIF FOE PG UIF ZFBS Equity 13.7 10.9 24.6 Cash 2.9 3.7 6.6 Other 1.6 3.7 5.3 4FOJPS 0UIFS 4 b NJMMJPO NBOBHFNFOU $PEF TUBGG Total %FGFSSFE SFNVOFSBUJPO WFTUFE JO ZFBS For awards made in 2012 financial year For awards made in 2011 financial year 4.6 2.1 6.7 For awards made in 2010 financial year Investec integrated annual report 2013 133 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued Other remuneration disclosures 4FOJPS 0UIFS NBOBHFNFOU $PEF TUBGG Total 4JHO PO QBZNFOUT Made during the year million 0.1 0.1 Number of beneciaries 1 1 4FWFSBODF QBZNFOUT Made during the year million Number of beneciaries VBSBOUFFE CPOVTFT Made during the year million Number of beneciaries Pillar III remuneration disclosures The bank in South Africa is required to make certain quantitative and qualitative remuneration disclosures on an annual basis in terms of the South African Reserve Banks Basel Pillar III Disclosure requirements.
The information contained in the tables below sets out the banks quantitative disclosures for the year ended 31 March 2013.
Aggregate remuneration by remuneration type 'JOBODJBM BOE 4FOJPS 3JTL SJTL DPOUSPM 3 NJMMJPO NBOBHFNFOU?
Total 'JYFE SFNVOFSBUJPO 7BSJBCMF SFNVOFSBUJPO Cash 101.6 57.3 54.0 212.9 Deferred shares 104.3 46.5 1.8 152.6 Deferred shares long-term incentive awards 41.9 10.5 27.2 79.6 0UIFS Options long-term incentive awards made in current year 2.6 1.5 1.8 5.9 Options long-term incentive awards made in prior years 48.9 20.6 15.7 85.2 5PUBM BHHSFHBUF SFNVOFSBUJPO BOE EFGFSSFE JODFOUJWFT??
Total number of employees receiving variable remuneration was 323.
4 Senior management: all members of our South African general management forum, excluding executive directors.
Risk takers: includes anyone not categorised above who is deemed to be responsible for a division function e. g. lending, balance sheet management, advisory and transactional banking activities which could be incurring risk on behalf of the bank.
Financial and risk control staff: includes everyone in central Group Finance and central Group Risk as well as employees responsible for risk and finance functions within the operating business units.
All employees are subject to clawback provisions as discussed on page 121.
No remuneration was reduced for ex post implicit adjustments during the year.
134 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued Additional disclosure on deferred variable remuneration 'JOBODJBM BOE 4FOJPS 3JTL SJTL DPOUSPM 3 NJMMJPO NBOBHFNFOU?
Total Deferred unvested remuneration outstanding at the beginning of the year 208.3 60.8 8.7 277.8 Deferred unvested remuneration adjustment employees that are no longer employed by the bank 3.7 3.7 Deferred remuneration awarded in year 146.2 57.0 29.0 232.2 Deferred remuneration reduced in year through performance adjustments Deferred remuneration vested in year %FGFSSFE VOWFTUFE SFNVOFSBUJPO PVUTUBOEJOH BU UIF FOE PG UIF ZFBS??
'JOBODJBM BOE 4FOJPS 3JTL SJTL DPOUSPM 3 NJMMJPO NBOBHFNFOU?
Total %FGFSSFE VOWFTUFE SFNVOFSBUJPO PVUTUBOEJOH BU UIF FOE PG UIF ZFBS Equity 283.7 94.6 8.9 387.2 Cash Other 'JOBODJBM BOE 4FOJPS 3JTL SJTL DPOUSPM 3 NJMMJPO NBOBHFNFOU?
Total %FGFSSFE SFNVOFSBUJPO WFTUFE JO ZFBS For awards made in 2012 financial year For awards made in 2011 financial year 70.4 12.7 1.6 84.7 For awards made in 2010 financial year Senior management: all members of our South African general management forum, excluding executive directors.
4 Investec integrated annual report 2013 135 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued Other remuneration disclosures 'JOBODJBM BOE 4FOJPS 3JTL SJTL DPOUSPM NBOBHFNFOU?
Total 4JHO PO QBZNFOUT Made during the year Rmillion Number of beneciaries 4FWFSBODF QBZNFOUT Made during the year Rmillion Number of beneciaries VBSBOUFFE CPOVTFT Made during the year Rmillion Number of beneciaries Included in variable remuneration as reected on page 127.
Senior management: all members of our South African general management forum, excluding executive directors.
The number of people in each category is as follows: senior management 22: risk takers 18 and financial and risk control staff 294.
