Corporate governance report Corporate governance report All international business units operate in Joint chairmens accordance with the above determined Sound corporate introduction corporate governance requirements, in governance is addition to those of their jurisdiction, but with clear adherence at all times to group implicit in our Dear shareholder values and culture.
values, culture, Introduction 2013 areas of focus processes, We are pleased to present the 2013 annual Leadership functions and corporate governance report which sets t In 2012 we commissioned an externally organisational out Investecs approach to corporate facilitated board effectiveness review.
governance and more specically, how structure.
Whilst the review, conducted by we as joint chairmen ensure that we Professor Rob Goffee of the London Structures are discharge our duties of leading the board Business School, concluded that and ensuring the boards effectiveness in designed to ensure the board was operating effectively, carrying out its role.
there were areas which the board felt that our values it could improve and we have been Regulatory context remain embedded driving a programme to ensure that The disclosure of our governance practices in all businesses these improvements are implemented.
requires a description of the regulatory Further details are set out in the report and processes.
context that Investec, as a dual listed of the nominations and directors affairs We continually company DLC, operates within.
committee NOMDAC rene these The board, management and employees of t One of these areas was to further Investec are committed to complying with structures and a strengthen the involvement of the the disclosure and transparency rules and non-executive directors in developing written statement listing rules of the United Kingdom Listing and challenging proposals on strategy.
Authority UKLA, the JSE Limited JSE of values serves as Accordingly, the boards annual strategy listings requirements, regulatory requirements session was, for the first time, facilitated our code of ethics.
in the countries in which we operate, the by an external third party.
UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Board effectiveness Code and the King Code of Governance Principles for South Africa King III.
Therefore t Composition of the board and audit all stakeholders are assured that we are committees: being managed ethically and in compliance During the year under review with the latest legislation, regulations and we appointed David Friedland as best practices.
an independent non-executive director and member of the Our culture and values audit committees.
As from Underpinning these legislative, regulatory 8 August 2013 David will succeed and best practice requirements are Sam Abrahams as chairman of the Investecs values and philosophies, which audit committee.
provide the framework against which t Composition of the DLC remuneration we measure behaviour and practices so committee: as to assess the characteristics of good governance.
Our values require that George Alford has stepped down as directors and employees act with integrity chairman of the DLC remuneration and conduct themselves to promote and committee, with effect from 3 maintain trust.
31 March 2013, and Olivia Dickson was appointed as acting chairman in Sound corporate governance is therefore his place for a period of six months.
implicit in our values, culture, processes, Bradley Fried was appointed as a functions and organisational structure.
member of the committee, effective Structures are designed to ensure that our from 3 April 2013.
Although Bradley values remain embedded in all businesses is not considered to be independent and processes.
We continually rene these as he was employed as Investec structures and a written statement of values Bank plc CEO during the five years serves as our code of ethics.
prior to appointment as a director, As noted, we operate under a DLC his knowledge and experience of the structure, and consider the corporate group is deemed to be beneficial to governance principles and regulations the workings of this committee and of both the UK and South Africa before is believed to be in the best interests adopting the appropriate rule for the group.
