Annual financial statements Directors report continued Generally Accepted Accounting Practice conditions.
We have health and safety Post-balance sheet UK GAAP.
policies in all regions of operation that cover all legislated requirements and events These policies are set out on additional benets are provided for pages 22 to 30. staff where possible.
We constantly Investec Asset Management seek to improve both policies and the senior management to acquire execution of health and safety standards 15% shareholding in Investec in all our ofces.
This takes the form of Financial instruments Asset Management staff education, regular re drills and maintenance of an open door policy with As announced on 14 March 2013, the Detailed information on the regard to dialogue on the issue.
Where groups risk management boards of directors of Investec have appropriate the appointment of individuals process and policy can be found reached an agreement with Forty Two Point responsible for various areas of health and in the risk management report Two NewCo and the senior management safety is made.
team of Investec Asset Management Limited and Investec Asset Management Further information is provided Information on the groups hedge Holdings Pty Ltd together Investec Asset on pages 103 to 105 in accounting policy and the use of derivatives Management to acquire an initial 15% volume one.
and hedges can be found on page 26 and shareholding the Interest in Investec Asset in notes 24 and 53.
Management for 180 million in cash.
NewCo has also been granted an option Donations the Option to acquire up to a further 5% of Creditor payment Investec Asset Management equity over the During the year, Investec plc made next seven years together with the Interest, donations for charitable purposes, totalling policy the Transaction.
The Participants, led by 3.1 million and Investec Limited made Investec Asset Management chief executive donations for charitable purposes, totalling The groups standard practice is to agree officer, Hendrik du Toit, comprise 40 senior R70.6 million.
the terms of payment with suppliers at management and employees of Investec the time of contract and make payments Further information is provided Asset Management.
The option for NewCo within the agreed credit terms, subject to on pages 106 to 108 in volume to acquire up to a further 5% of Investec satisfactory performance.
Asset Management equity over the next seven years will provide an opportunity for wider participation amongst Investec Asset Employees Environment Management employees.
The Transaction is conditional upon, among other things, Our policy is to recruit and promote on We are committed to pursuing sound the approval of shareholders of Investec plc the basis of aptitude and ability, without environmental policies in all aspects of and Investec Limited at general meetings discrimination of any kind.
Applications our business and seek to encourage and to be convened for that purpose as well as for employment by disabled people are promote good environmental practice certain regulatory approvals.
Subject to the always considered bearing in mind the among our employees and within the conditions being met, completion of the qualications and abilities of the applicants.
community in which we operate.
Transaction is expected to take place in the In the event of employees becoming Further information can be third quarter of 2013. disabled, every effort is made to ensure found on pages 102 to 111 in their continued employment.
is to adopt an open management style, thereby encouraging informal consultation Additional information at all levels about aspects of our operations, for shareholders and motivating staff involvement in our Going concern performance by means of employee share Schedule A to the directors report is a Refer to pages 83 and 84 in schemes.
summary of certain provisions of Investec 1 volume one for the directors We are committed to ensuring the health, plcs current Articles of Association statement in relation to going safety and welfare of our employees and and applicable English law concerning concern.
to providing and maintaining safe working companies the UK Companies Act 2006.
On behalf of the boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited Sir David J Prosser Fani Titi Stephen Koseff Joint chairman Joint chairman Chief executive officer 11 June 2013 Investec integrated annual report 2013 7
