Annual financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited significant accounting policies company DLC structure.
The effect of the The consolidated balance sheet reects the Basis of presentation DLC structure is that Investec plc and its associated undertakings net of accumulated subsidiaries and Investec Limited and its impairment losses.
The group financial statements are prepared subsidiaries operate together as a single in accordance with International Financial All intergroup balances, transactions and economic entity, with neither assuming a Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted unrealised gains and losses within the dominant role and accordingly are reported by the European Union EU which comply group that do not reect an impairment to as a single reporting entity under IFRS.
with IFRSs as issued by the International the asset, are eliminated in full regarding Accounting Standards Board IASB.
At subsidiaries and to the extent of the interest All subsidiaries and special purpose entities 31 March 2013, IFRS as endorsed by the SPEs in which the group holds more than in an associate.
EU are identical to current IFRS applicable one half of the voting rights or which it to the group.
has the ability to control either directly or The group financial statements have been in substance are consolidated from the Segmental reporting prepared on a historical cost basis, except effective dates of acquisition that is from An operating segment is a component of when control exists up to the effective dates for investment properties, available-for-sale the group that engages in business activities of loss of control, except entities which are investments, derivative financial instruments, from which it may earn revenues and incur financial assets and financial liabilities held classied as non-current assets held-forexpenses, including revenues and expenses at fair value through profit or loss or subject sale.
Subsidiaries classied as non-current that relate to transactions with any of the assets held-for-sale are consolidated in one to hedge accounting, liabilities for cashgroups other components, whose operating settled share-based payments and pension income statement line item as discontinued results are reviewed regularly by the board fund surpluses and deficits that have been operations.
and for which discrete financial information measured at fair value.
Investec sponsors the formation of SPEs for is available.
SPEs are consolidated The groups segmental reporting is when the substance of the relationship Presentation of presented in the form of a business analysis.
between the group and the SPE indicates The business analysis is presented in terms information that the SPE is controlled by the group.
of the groups three principal business Investec performs a re-assessment of Disclosure under IFRS 7 Financial divisions, namely, Asset Management, consolidation whenever there is a change in Wealth & Investment and Specialist Banking.
Instruments: Disclosures and IAS 1 the substance of the relationship between Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Investec and an SPE.
Investec also holds A geographical analysis is also presented Disclosures relating to the nature and extent investments, for example private equity in terms of the main geographies in which of risks have been included in sections investments, which give rise to significant, the group operates representing the marked as audited in the risk management but not majority, voting rights.
Assessing groups exposure to various economic report on pages 80 to 94 in volume two.
these voting rights and whether Investec environments.
controls these entities requires judgement Certain disclosures required that affects the date at which subsidiaries For further detail on the groups under IAS 24 Related Party are consolidated or deconsolidated.
segmental reporting basis refer Disclosures have been included to pages 55 to 79 in volume one in the section marked as audited Entities, other than subsidiary undertakings, of the divisional review section of in the remuneration report on in which the group exercises significant the annual report.
inuence over operating and financial policies, are treated as interests in associated undertakings.
In the group Business combinations Restatements and accounts, interests in associated undertakings are accounted for using and goodwill presentation of the equity method from the date that significant inuence commences until the Business combinations are accounted information date that significant inuence ceases.
In for using the acquisition method.
The The group reclassied warehoused assets circumstances where interests in associated cost of an acquisition is measured as the 1 and liabilities into other loans and advances undertakings or joint venture holdings arise aggregate of the consideration transferred and deposits by banks respectively.
in which the group has no strategic intention, measured at the acquisition date fair value these investments are classied as venture and the amount of any prior non-controlling This change arises from simplifying the capital holdings and are designated as held interest in the acquiree.
For each business face of the balance sheet with the relevant at fair value through profit or loss.
combination, the group measures the noninformation more appropriately disclosed.
controlling interest in the acquiree either at The impact on the prior years balance For equity accounted associates, fair value or at the proportionate share of the the combined consolidated financial sheet is detailed in note 57. acquirees identiable net assets.
Acquisition statements include the attributable share costs incurred are expensed immediately in of the results and reserves of associated the income statement.
The groups interests in Basis of consolidation associated undertakings are included in the When the group acquires a business, it Investec consists of two separate legal consolidated balance sheet at cost plus assesses the financial assets and liabilities entities, being Investec plc and Investec the post-acquisition changes in the groups assumed for appropriate classication Limited, that operate under a dual listed share of the net assets of the associate.
and the designation in accordance 22 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Annual financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited significant accounting policies continued with the contractual terms, economic currency of Investec plc.
The functional Share-based payments circumstances and pertinent conditions as currency of Investec Limited is at the acquisition date.
This includes the to employees South African Rand.
separation of embedded derivatives in host Foreign operations are subsidiaries, interests The group engages in equity-settled sharecontracts by the acquiree.
in associated undertakings or branches of based payments and in certain limited If the business combination is achieved in the group, the activities of which are based circumstances cash-settled share-based stages, the acquisition date fair value of in a functional currency other than that of payments in respect of services received the groups previously held equity interest from employees.
The functional currency in the acquiree is re-measured to fair value of group entities is determined based on the The fair value of the services received in at the acquisition date through the income primary economic environment in which the respect of equity-settled share-based statement.
payments is determined by reference to Any contingent consideration to be the fair value of the shares or share options Foreign currency transactions are translated transferred by the group will be recognised on the date of grant to the employee.
The into the functional currency of the entity at fair value at the acquisition date.
cost of the share-based payment, together in which the transaction arises based on with a corresponding increase in equity, is Subsequent changes to the fair value of the rates of exchange ruling at the date of the contingent consideration, which is deemed recognised in the income statement over the transaction.
At each balance sheet date to be an asset or liability, will be recognised period the service conditions of the grant are foreign currency items are translated as met with the amount changing according in accordance with IAS 39 either in the follows: to the number of awards expected to vest.
income statement or as a change to other t Foreign currency monetary items The cumulative expense recognised for comprehensive income.
If the contingent other than monetary items that form equity-settled transactions at each reporting consideration is classied as equity, it will part of the net investment in a foreign date until the vesting date reects the extent not be re-measured until it is nally settled operation are translated using closing to which the vesting period has expired and within equity.
rates, with gains and losses recognised the groups best estimate of the number of Goodwill is initially measured at cost, in the income statement equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
being the excess of the aggregate of the t Exchange differences arising on The liability, in respect of cash-settled consideration transferred and the amount monetary items that form part of the share-based payments, is recognised at recognised for non-controlling interest over net investment in a foreign operation the current fair value at each balance sheet the net identiable assets acquired and are determined using closing rates and date based on an estimate of the number of liabilities assumed.
If this consideration recognised as a separate component instruments that will eventually vest, with the and amount recognised for non-controlling of equity foreign currency translation change in fair value being recognised in the interest is less than the fair values of the reserve upon consolidation and is income statement.
identiable net assets acquired, the discount recognised in the income statement on acquisition is recognised directly in the Subsequent to vesting the liability is upon disposal of the net investment income statement as a gain in the year of measured at fair value, with gains and acquisition.
losses recognised in the income statement t Non-monetary items that are measured until such time as the liability is settled.
at historical costs are translated using After initial recognition, goodwill is measured the exchange rates ruling at the date of at cost less any accumulated impairment Fair value measurements are based on the transaction.
The group tests goodwill acquired option pricing models, taking into account in a business combination for impairment the risk-free interest rate, volatility of the On consolidation, the results and financial annually, irrespective of whether an underlying equity instrument, expected position of foreign operations are translated indication of impairment exists and in dividends and current share prices.
into the presentation currency of the group accordance with IAS 36. as follows: Where the terms of an equity-settled For the purpose of impairment testing, award are modied, the minimum expense t Assets and liabilities for each balance goodwill acquired in a business combination recognised in staff costs is the expense sheet presented are translated at the is, from the acquisition date, allocated as if the terms had not been modied.
closing rate at the date of the balance 1 to each of the groups cash-generating An additional expense is recognised for sheet units that are expected to benefit from the any modication which increases the total combination.
t Income and expense items are fair value of the share-based payment translated at exchange rates ruling at arrangement, or is otherwise beneficial to Where goodwill forms part of a cashthe date of the transaction the employee as measured at the date of generating unit and part of the operation modication.
within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill t All resulting exchange differences are associated with the operation disposed of recognised in other comprehensive is included in the carrying amount of the income foreign currency translation Foreign currency operation when determining the gain or loss reserve, which is recognised in the on disposal of the operation.
income statement on disposal of the transactions and foreign foreign operation Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance operations is measured based on the relative values of t Cash ow items are translated at the the operation disposed of and the portion of The presentation currency of the group exchange rates ruling at the date of the the cash-generating units retained.
is Pounds Sterling, being the functional transaction.
Investec integrated annual report 2013 23 Annual financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited significant accounting policies continued Included in other operating income is inconsistency that would otherwise Revenue recognition incidental rental income, gains on arise from measuring assets or liabilities realisation of properties other than or recognising the gains and losses on Revenue consists of interest income, fee and investment properties which is included them on different bases: or commission income, investment income, in investment income, operating lease trading income arising from customer ow, t A group of financial assets, financial income, income from interests in associated trading income arising from balance sheet liabilities or both is managed and its undertakings, income from assurance management and other trading activities and performance is evaluated on a fair value activities and revenue from consolidated other operating income.
basis in accordance with a documented private equity investments.
Operating costs risk management or investment strategy Revenue is recognised when it can be associated with these investments are and information about the group is reliably measured and it is probable that included in operating costs in the income provided internally on that basis to the the economic benets will ow to the entity.
groups key management personnel: Revenue related to provision of services is and recognised when the related services are performed.
Revenue is measured at the Financial instruments t A contract contains one or more fair value of the consideration received or embedded derivatives which receivable.
Financial instruments are initially recognised signicantly modies the cash ows that at their fair value.
For financial assets or would be required by the contract and Interest income is recognised in the financial liabilities not at fair value through is not clearly prohibited from separation income statement using the effective profit or loss, transaction costs that are from the host contract and the group interest method.
Fees charged on lending directly attributable to the acquisition or has designated the entire hybrid transactions are included in the effective issue of the financial assets or financial contract as a financial instrument at yield calculation to the extent that they form liabilities are included in fair value.
All other fair value through profit or loss.
an integral part of the effective interest rate transaction costs are recorded in the yield, but exclude those fees earned for a Held-to-maturity financial income statement immediately.
separately identiable significant act, which assets are recognised upon completion of the act.
Regular way purchase and sales Fees and commissions charged in lieu of Held-to-maturity financial assets are nontransactions in respect of financial assets derivative financial instruments with xed interest are recognised as income as part that require delivery of a financial instrument of the effective interest rate on the or determinable payments and maturity within the time frame established by market underlying loan.
dates which the group has the intention and convention are recorded at trade date.
ability to hold to maturity.
Subsequent to The effective interest method is based initial recognition, held-to-maturity assets Financial assets and liabilities on the estimated life of the underlying are measured at amortised cost using the held at fair value through profit instrument, and, where this estimate is not effective interest method, less impairment or loss readily available, the contractual life.
Financial instruments held at fair value Fee and commission income includes fees Amortised cost is calculated by taking through profit or loss include all instruments earned from providing advisory services as into account any discount or premium on classied as held-for-trading and those well as portfolio management and includes acquisition and fees that are an integral instruments designated as held at fair value rental income from investment properties.
part of the effective interest rate.
The through profit or loss.
amortisation is included in interest income Investment income includes income, Financial instruments classied as heldin the income statement.
The losses arising other than margin, from securities held for for-trading or designated as held at fair from impairment of such investments are the purpose of generating interest yield, value through profit or loss are recorded recognised in the income statement.
at fair value on the balance sheet with Loans and receivables changes in fair value recognised in the Customer ow trading income includes income statement.
Financial instruments income from trading activities arising from Loans and receivables are non-derivative are classied as trading when they are held making and facilitating client activities.
financial assets with xed or determinable 1 with the intention of short-term disposal, payments that are not quoted in an active Trading income arising from balance sheet held with the intention of generating shortmarket and exclude the following: management and other trading activities term profits, or are derivatives which are t Those that the group intends to trade in, consists of proprietary trading income and not designated as part of effective hedges.
which are classied as held-for-trading other gains and losses arising from balance Financial instruments designated as held and those that the group designates as sheet management.
at fair value through profit or loss are at fair value through profit or loss designated as such on initial recognition Trading profits includes the unrealised profits of the instrument and remain in this on trading portfolios, which are marked to t Those that the group designates as classication until derecognition.
Equity investments received in available-for-sale lieu of corporate finance fees are included in Financial assets and liabilities are designated t Those for which the group may not investment portfolio and valued accordingly.
as held at fair value through profit or loss recover substantially all of its initial only if: Dividend income is recognised when investment, other than because of credit the groups right to receive payment is t It eliminates or signicantly reduces deterioration, which is accounted for as established.
a measurement or recognition available-for-sale instruments.
24 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Annual financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited significant accounting policies continued Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and or loans and receivables.
They include Valuation of financial receivables are measured at amortised cost, strategically held equity instruments that are instruments using the effective interest rate method, less not interests in associated undertakings, impairment losses.
The effective interest rate joint ventures or subsidiaries of the group.
All financial instruments are initially Further, certain loans and receivables that represents the rate that exactly discounts recognised at fair value.
On initial are held at fair value due to being quoted on recognition, the fair value of a financial future projected cash ows through the an active market, which are neither actively instrument is the transaction price unless expected life of the financial instrument, traded nor held-to-maturity instruments, it is deemed appropriate that the fair value to the net carrying amount of the financial are classied as available-for-sale financial instrument.
Included in the calculation of of a financial instrument is more accurately assets.
determined by comparison with other the effective interest rate is any discount or observable current market transactions premium on acquisition and fees that are an Financial assets classied as availablein the same instrument i. e. without integral part of the effective interest rate.
for-sale are measured at fair value with modication or repackaging or based on unrealised gains and losses recognised Losses arising from impairment of such a valuation technique whose variables directly in other comprehensive income investments are recognised in the income include only data from observable markets.
When statement line impairment losses on loans In circumstances where unobservable the asset is disposed of, the cumulative and advances.
data has a significant impact on the gain or loss previously recognised in other valuation of a financial instrument, the entire comprehensive income is recognised in the Interest on impaired financial assets is difference between the model determined income statement.
Interest earned whilst recognised using the rate of interest used fair value and the transaction price is not holding available-for-sale financial assets to discount the future cash ows for the recognised on initial recognition.
Refer to the is reported as interest income using the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
Day 1 profit or loss accounting policy.
Dividends earned whilst holding available-for-sale financial Subsequent to initial recognition the Securitisation credit assets are recognised in the income following financial instruments are measured investment and trading statement when the right of payment has at fair value: activities exposures been established.
t Fixed maturity securities classied as The group makes use of securitisation If an available-for-sale instrument is trading, held at fair value through profit vehicles as a source of finance, as a means determined to be impaired, the respective or loss and available-for-sale of risk transfer and to leverage returns cumulative unrealised losses previously through the retention of equity tranches t Equity securities recognised in other comprehensive in low default rate portfolios.
The group income are included in the income t Private equity investments predominantly focuses on the securitisation statement in the period in which the of residential and commercial mortgages.
t Derivative positions The group also trades in structured credit investments.
Impairments on available-for-sale equity t Loans and advances designated as instruments are not reversed once held at fair value through profit or loss Loans and advances that are originated recognised in the income statement.
are transferred to SPE, and the SPEs issue t Loans and advances designated as debt securities to external investors to fund If, in a subsequent period, the fair value available-for-sale the purchase of the securitised assets.
of a debt instrument classied as availablet Financial liabilities classied as trading or for-sale increases and the increase can be The groups exposure to the SPEs are the designated as held at fair value through objectively related to an event occurring reserves provided as credit enhancement profit or loss.
after the impairment loss was recognised to the holders of the SPEs debt securities, in the income statement, the impairment with the first loss position treated as a longSubsequent to initial recognition, the fair loss is reversed, limited to the impairment term interest rate borrowing to the SPEs.
value of financial instruments quoted in an value previously recognised in the income active market is based on published price The SPEs are consolidated under SIC-12 statement.
Special Purpose Entities when the group does not transfer the majority of risks and Financial liabilities 1 Where market prices are not available, fair rewards related to the underlying asset value is determined by discounting the Financial liabilities are classied as transferred to the SPEs.
Where the group has expected cash ows, using market interest non-trading, held-for-trading or designated transferred the right to receive the cash ows rates taking into account the credit quality as held at fair value through profit or loss.
from the securitised assets, substantially all and duration of the investment.
In certain risks and rewards, and the group retains no Non-trading liabilities are recorded at instances model pricing may be used to control over the assets, full derecognition of amortised cost applying the effective interest determine fair values.
For private equity rate method.
the securitised assets will occur.
investments that are not publicly traded, management uses comparisons to similar Held-for-trading liabilities or liabilities Available-for-sale financial listed companies, relevant third party arms designated as held at fair value through assets length transactions and other data specic profit or loss are measured at fair value.
Available-for-sale financial assets are those All changes in fair value of financial liabilities which are designated as such or do not are recognised in the income statement.
qualify to be classied as designated at fair value through profit or loss, held-to-maturity, Investec integrated annual report 2013 25 Annual financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited significant accounting policies continued the asset and the expected cash ows settle net and a currently enforceable legal Day 1 profit or loss including net expected proceeds on right to offset exists.
When the transaction price differs from realisation of collateral discounted at the fair value of other observable current Derivative positions are entered into either the original effective rate.
Impairments of market transactions in the same instrument for trading purposes or as part of the financial assets held at amortised cost are or based on the valuation technique whose groups asset and liability management recognised in the income statement.
variables include only data from observable activities to manage exposures to interest markets, the difference between the To cater for any shortfall between regulatory rate and foreign currency risks.
Both realised transaction price and fair value is recognised provision requirements in the respective and unrealised profits and losses arising on immediately in the income statement.
jurisdictions and impairments based on derivatives are recognised in the income In cases where fair value is determined the principles above, a transfer is made statement as part of trading income other using the data which is not observable, from distributable to non-distributable than circumstances in which cash ow the difference between the transaction reserves, being the regulatory general risk hedging is applied as detailed in the hedge reserve.
The non-distributable regulatory risk price and model value is only recognised accounting section below.
reserve ensures that minimum regulatory in the income statement when the inputs Derivative instruments transacted as provisioning requirements are maintained.
become observable, or when the instrument economic hedges which do not qualify for is derecognised or over the life of the hedge accounting and derivatives that are Derecognition of financial transaction.
entered into for trading purposes are treated assets and liabilities in the same way as instruments that are Impairments of financial assets A financial asset, or a portion thereof, is held-for-trading.
held at amortised cost derecognised when the groups rights to cash ows have expired or when the group Financial assets carried at amortised cost Credit derivatives has transferred its rights to cash ows are impaired if there is objective evidence Credit derivatives are entered into for relating to the financial assets and either that the group would not receive cash ows trading purposes.
Credit derivatives of the a the group has transferred substantially according to the original contractual terms.
group are initially recognised at their fair all the risk and rewards associated with the Financial assets are assessed for objective values, being the transaction price of the financial assets or b the group has neither evidence of impairment at least at each derivative.
Subsequently the derivatives are transferred nor retained substantially all balance sheet reporting date.
carried at fair value, with movements in fair the risks and rewards associated with the value through profit and loss, based on the The test for impairment is based either financial assets but has transferred control current market price or re-measured price.
on specic financial assets or collectively of the asset.
on a portfolio of similar, homogeneous Hedge accounting A financial liability is derecognised when it assets.
Over and above individual collective is extinguished, that is when the obligation The group applies either fair value or cash impairments raised at specic portfolio is discharged, cancelled or expired.
When ow hedge or hedge of net investments levels, the group recognises a collective an existing financial liability is replaced or in foreign operations accounting when the impairment allowance at a central level modied with substantially different terms, transactions meet the specified hedge within the Specialist Banking business such a replacement or modication is accounting criteria.
To qualify for hedge segment that takes into account macrotreated as a derecognition of the original accounting treatment, the group ensures economic factors, mainly driven by data liability and the recognition of a new liability.
that all of the following conditions are met: related to the prevailing credit markets and The difference in the respective carrying which indicate incurred but not specically t At inception of the hedge, the group amounts is recognised in the income identied losses across the loan portfolios statement.
formally documents the relationship that is, exposures in all business segments.
between the hedging instrument s Assets specically identied as impaired are Reclassication of financial and hedged item s including the excluded from the collective assessment.
risk management objectives and the instruments strategy in undertaking the hedge Impairments are credited to an allowance The group may reclassify, in certain rare transaction.
Also at the inception of the account which is carried against the carrying circumstances, non-derivative financial hedge relationship, a formal assessment value of financial assets.
Interest continues assets out of the held-for-trading category is undertaken to ensure the hedging 1 to be accrued on the reduced carrying and into the available-for-sale, loans instrument is expected to be highly amount based on the original effective and receivables, or held-to-maturity effective in offsetting the designated interest rate of the asset.
It may also reclassify, in certain risk in the hedged item.
A hedge is with the associated allowance are written off circumstances, financial instruments out expected to be highly effective if the when there is no realistic prospect of future of the available-for-sale category and changes in fair value or cash ows recovery and all collateral has been realised into the loans and receivables category.
attributable to the hedged risk during or transferred to the group.
Reclassications are recorded at fair value at the period for which the hedge is the date of reclassication, which becomes An allowance for impairment is only reversed designated are expected to offset in a the new amortised cost.
when there is objective evidence that the range of 80% to 125% credit quality has improved to the extent Derivative instruments t For cash ow hedges, a forecasted that there is reasonable assurance of timely transaction that is the subject of the All derivative instruments of the group are collection of principal and interest in terms recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.
hedge must be highly probable and of the original contractual agreement.
Positive and negative fair values are reported must present an exposure to variations in cash ows that could ultimately affect The impairment is calculated as the as assets and liabilities respectively and are difference between the carrying value of offset when there is both an intention to profit and loss 26 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Annual financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited significant accounting policies continued t The effectiveness of the hedge can be any such gain or loss recorded in other Equity instruments are initially measured net reliably measured, i. e. the fair value or of directly attributable issue costs.
comprehensive income is reclassied to cash ows of the hedged item that are the income statement.
Treasury shares represent issued equity attributable to the hedged risk and the repurchased by the group which has Hedge accounting is discontinued when it fair value of the hedging instrument can not been cancelled.
Treasury shares are is determined that the instrument ceases be reliably measured deducted from shareholders equity and to be highly effective as a hedge: when the t The hedge effectiveness is assessed represent the purchase consideration, derivative expires, or is sold, terminated or including directly attributable costs.
Where on an ongoing basis and determined exercised: when the hedged item matures treasury shares are subsequently sold actually to have been highly effective or is sold or repaid: when a forecasted throughout the financial reporting or reissued, net proceeds received are transaction is no longer deemed highly periods for which the hedge was included in shareholders equity.
probable or when the designation as a designated.
Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised as a deduction from equity For qualifying fair value hedges, the Embedded derivatives change in fair value of the hedging at the earlier of payment date or the date To the extent that a derivative may be that it is approved by Investec plc in instrument is recognised in the income embedded in a hybrid contract and the relation to dividends declared by Investec statement.
Changes in fair value of the hybrid contract is not carried at fair value plc and Investec Limited in relation to hedged item that is attributable to the with changes in fair value recorded in the dividends declared by Investec Limited hedged risk are also recognised in the income statement, the embedded derivative shareholders.
is separated from the host contract and For qualifying cash ow hedges in respect Sale and repurchase accounted for as a standalone derivative if of non-financial assets and liabilities, and only if: agreements including the change in fair value of the hedging securities borrowing and instrument, relating to the effective portion t The economic characteristics and lending is initially recognised directly in other risks of the embedded derivative are not closely related to the economic Where securities are sold subject to a comprehensive income in the cash ow characteristics and risks of the host commitment to repurchase them, at a hedge reserve and is included in the contract: and xed price or a selling price plus a lenders initial cost of any asset liability recognised or in all other cases released to the return, they remain on balance sheet.
t A separate instrument with the same Proceeds received are recorded as a income statement when the hedged rm terms as the embedded derivative liability on balance sheet under repurchase commitment or forecasted transaction would meet the denition of a derivative.
agreements and cash collateral on securities affects net profit.
If the forecast transaction lent.
Securities that are purchased under or rm commitment is no longer expected Offsetting of financial assets a commitment to resell the securities at to occur, the balance included in other and liabilities a future date are not recognised on the comprehensive income is reclassied to balance sheet.
The consideration paid is the income statement immediately and Financial assets and liabilities are offset recognised as an asset under reverse recognised in trading income from balance when there is both an intention to settle on repurchase agreements and cash collateral sheet management and other trading a net basis or simultaneously and a legal on securities borrowed.
The difference between the sale and For qualifying cash ow hedges in respect of Issued debt and equity financial repurchase prices is treated as interest financial assets and liabilities, the change in instruments expense and is accrued over the life of the fair value of the hedging instrument, which agreement using the effective interest rate represents an effective hedge, is initially Financial instruments issued by the group method.
recognised in other comprehensive income are classied as liabilities if they contain a and is released to the income statement in contractual obligation to deliver cash or Securities borrowing transactions that are the same period during which the relevant another financial asset.
not cash collateralised are not included in financial asset or liability affects the income 1 the balance sheet.
Securities lending and Financial instruments issued by the group statement.
Any ineffective portion of the borrowing transactions which are cash are classied as equity where they confer hedge is immediately recognised in the collateralised are accounted for in the same on the holder a residual interest in the income statement.
manner as securities sold or purchased group, and the group has no obligation subject to repurchase commitments.
Qualifying hedges of a net investment in to deliver either cash or another financial a foreign operation including a hedge of a asset to the holder.
The components of Financial guarantees monetary item that is accounted for as part compound issued financial instruments are of the net investment are accounted for in a Financial guarantee contracts issued by accounted for separately with the liability way similar to cash ow hedges.
Changes the group are those contracts that require component separated first and any residual in the fair value of the hedging instrument a payment to be made to reimburse the amount being allocated to the equity relating to the effective portion of the hedge holder for a loss it incurs because the component.
are recognised in other comprehensive specified debtor fails to make a payment Equity instruments issued by subsidiaries income while any gains or losses relating when due, in accordance with the terms of Investec plc or Investec Limited are to the ineffective portion are recognised in of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantees the income statement.
On disposal of the recorded as non-controlling interests on the are initially recognised at fair value, foreign operation, the cumulative value of balance sheet.
adjusted for the transaction costs that are Investec integrated annual report 2013 27 Annual financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited significant accounting policies continued directly attributable to the issuance of the The current and comparative annual years.
The depreciable amount related to guarantee.
depreciation rates for each class of property each intangible asset is determined as the and equipment is as follows: difference between the cost and the residual Subsequent to initial recognition the liability value of the asset.
The residual value is the t Computer and related under each guarantee is measured at estimated amount, net of disposal costs, the higher of the amount recognised less equipment 20% 33% which the group would currently obtain from cumulative amortisation and the best the disposal of an intangible asset in similar t Motor vehicles 20% 25% estimate of expenditure required to settle age and condition as expected at the end of any financial obligation arising as a result its useful life.
t Furniture and ttings 10% 20% of the guarantee.
Subsequent to initial measurement all changes in the balance t Freehold buildings 2% sheet carrying value are recognised in the Impairment of t Leasehold improvements income statement.
non-financial assets Leasehold improvements depreciation Instalment credit, leases and rates are determined by reference to At each balance sheet date the group rental agreements the appropriate useful life of its separate reviews the carrying value of non-financial A finance lease is a lease that transfers components, limited to the period of the assets, other than investment property lease.
substantially all of the risks and rewards and deferred tax assets for indication of incidental to ownership of an asset.
The recoverable amount, being No depreciation is provided on freehold operating lease is a lease other than a the higher of fair value less cost to sell and land, however, similar to other propertyfinancial lease.
value in use, is determined for any assets related assets, it is subject to impairment for which an indication of impairment is Where classied as a finance lease, testing when deemed necessary.
If the recoverable amount of an amounts outstanding on these contracts, Routine maintenance and service costs for asset is less than its carrying value, the net of unearned finance charges, are group assets are expensed as incurred.
carrying value of the asset is reduced to its included in loans and advances where the Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised recoverable value.
group is the lessor and included in liabilities if it is probable that future economic benets where the group is the lessee.
Finance Impairment losses are recognised as an associated with the item will ow to the charges on finance leases and instalment expense in the income statement in the group.
credit transactions are credited or debited period in which they are identied.
Reversals to income in proportion to the capital of impairment losses are recognised in balances outstanding at the rate implicit in income in the period in which the reversals Investment property the agreement.
are identied, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed the Where classied as operating leases, rentals Properties held by the group which are amount that would have been calculated payable receivable are charged credited held for capital appreciation or rental yield without impairment.
in the income statement on a straight-line are classied as investment properties.
basis over the lease term.
Contingent rentals Investment properties are carried at fair if any are accrued to the income statement value, with fair value gains and losses Trust and duciary when incurred.
recognised in the income statement under investment income.
activities Fair value of investment property is Property and equipment The group acts as a trustee or in other calculated by taking into account the duciary capacities that result in the holding, expected rental stream associated with Property and equipment are recorded at placing or managing of assets for the the property, and is supported by market cost less accumulated depreciation and account of and at the risk of clients.
As these are not assets of the group, they Cost is the cash equivalent paid, or the fair are not recognised on the balance sheet value of the consideration given to acquire 1 Dealing properties but are included at market value as part of an asset and includes other expenditures assets under administration.
that are directly attributable to the Dealing properties are carried at the lower of acquisition of the asset.
cost and net realisable value.
Taxation and deferred Depreciation is provided on the depreciable amount of each component on a straightIntangible assets taxation line basis over the anticipated useful life of the asset.
The depreciable amount related to Intangible assets are recorded at cost less Current tax payable is provided on the each asset is determined as the difference accumulated amortisation and impairments.
amount expected to be payable on between the cost and the residual value of taxable profits at rates that are enacted or the asset.
The residual value is the estimated For intangible assets with a nite life, substantively enacted and applicable to the amount, net of disposal costs, that the group amortisation is provided on the depreciable relevant period.
would currently obtain from the disposal amount of each intangible asset on a of an asset in similar age and condition as straight-line basis over the anticipated useful Deferred taxation is provided using the expected at the end of its useful life.
life of the asset currently three to twenty balance sheet method on temporary 28 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Annual financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited significant accounting policies continued differences between the carrying amount of Employee benets Standards and an asset or liability in the balance sheet and its tax base, except where such temporary interpretations issued The group operates various dened differences arise from: contribution schemes and two closed but not yet effective dened benefit schemes.
t The initial recognition of goodwill The following standards and interpretations, In respect of the dened contribution t The initial recognition of an asset or which have been issued but are not yet scheme, all employer contributions liability in a transaction which is not a effective, are applicable to the group.
These are charged to income as incurred, in business combination and at the time standards and interpretations have not accordance with the rules of the scheme, of the transaction has no effect on the been applied in these financial statements.
and included under staff costs.
income statement or taxable profit The group intends to comply with these standards from the effective dates.
The assets of the dened benefit schemes t In respect of temporary differences are measured at their market value at the associated with the investments New standards balance sheet date and the liabilities of the in subsidiaries and interests in schemes are measured using the projected IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial associated undertakings, where the unit credit method.
The discount rate used to Statements timing of the reversal of the temporary measure the schemes liabilities is the current differences can be controlled and The standard replaces consolidation rate of return on an AA corporate bond at it is probable that the temporary principles contained in IAS 27 Consolidated the balance sheet date of equivalent term differences will not reverse in the and Separate Financial Statements and and currency to the liabilities.
The extent to foreseeable future.
The which the schemes assets exceed or fall standard defines the principle of control short of the schemes liabilities is shown as Deferred tax assets or liabilities are and establishes control as the basis for a surplus to the extent that it is considered measured using the tax rates that have determining which entities are consolidated recoverable or deficit in the balance sheet.
been enacted or substantively enacted by in the consolidated financial statements.
An investor controls an investee when it is Actuarial gains and losses related to exposed, or has rights, to variable returns the dened benefit asset or liability are Deferred tax assets are recognised to the from its involvement with the investee and recognised immediately directly in other extent that it is probable that future taxable has the ability to affect those returns through comprehensive income.
profit will be available against which the its power over the investee.
The standard is deferred tax asset can be utilised.
The group has no liabilities for other postretrospectively effective for the group for the retirement benets.
Items recognised directly in other year commencing 1 April 2013.
The impact comprehensive income are net of related of the adoption of IFRS 10 on the group is current and deferred taxation.
Borrowing costs IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements Borrowing costs in respect of property The standard replaces IAS 31 Interests in Insurance contracts developments that take a substantial period Joint Ventures and SIC-13 Jointly Controlled of time to develop for sale are capitalised.
Insurance contracts are those contracts Entities Non-Monetary Contributions by in which the group assumes significant Venturers.
The key change is to require insurance risk.
The deposit components all joint ventures to be equity-accounted, of insurance contracts are unbundled and Provisions, contingent thus removing the option to proportionately accounted for separately.
The standard is retrospectively liabilities and contingent effective for the group for the year Insurance premiums are recognised in commencing 1 April 2013.
The group does assets income in the period in which the group is not expect any changes to the accounting entitled to the premium.
Insurance claims Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or policies of the group arising from this are recognised in the income statement in amount and are recognised as soon as the standard.
the period in which a contractual obligation group has created a legal or constructive 1 arises for the group to make payment under IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in obligation which will lead to an outow of an insurance contract.
Other Entities economic resources to settle the obligation as a result of a past event.
Expenses The standard requires disclosure of the Reinsurance assets and liabilities and related to provisions are recognised in the significant judgements and assumptions associated premiums claims are not offset income statement.
Contingent assets and made in determining the nature of interests in the income statement or balance sheet.
contingent liabilities are not recognised on in subsidiaries, joint ventures and interest Insurance liabilities are measured at balance sheet.
in associated undertakings and the their actuarial values, and are tested interest that non-controlling interests have for adequacy on an annual basis.
Any in the groups activities and cash ows.
deficiency identied is recognised in the The standard further provides disclosure income statement.
requirements relating to consolidated and unconsolidated structured entities that the Insurance income is included in other group is associated with.
The standard is operating income.
retrospectively effective for the group for the year commencing 1 April 2013.
The impact Investec integrated annual report 2013 29 Annual financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited significant accounting policies continued of the standard is further disclosure, with The standard is effective for the group Details of unlisted no changes to measurement or recognition for the year commencing 1 April 2015, investments can be found requirements.
and does not require the restatement of in note 26 with further comparative-period financial statements analysis contained in the IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement risk management section on upon initial application.
The EU have This standard defines fair value being a pages 40 to 43 in volume two.
highlighted that they will not endorse IFRS 9 market-based measurement, and sets out until a complete standard is issued.
t Valuation of investment properties is in a single IFRS framework for measuring performed twice annually by directors IFRS 7 Disclosures Offsetting fair value.
This standard requires extensive that are qualied valuators.
The Financial Assets and Financial disclosure about fair value measurements, valuation is performed by capitalising Liabilities amendments to IFRS 7 inclusive of non-financial instruments that the budgeted net income of a property are subject to fair value measurement.
These amendments require additional at the market related yield applicable at The standard is prospectively effective disclosures which the group will be in a the time for the group for the year commencing position to provide.
The impact of the adoption is are effective for the year commencing Refer to note 33 for the currently under evaluation.
1 April 2013. carrying value of investment property with further IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IAS 19 Employee benets analysis contained in the IFRS 9 Financial Instruments will replace Proposed amendments to IAS 19 have risk management section on certain key elements of IAS 39 when nally been published for public comment in pages 40 to 43 in volume two.
The two key elements that would March 2013.
The proposed amendments impact the groups accounting policies t The determination of impairments aim to simplify complex requirements that include: against assets that are carried at are encountered in applying the standard, amortised cost and impairments relating specically in relation to accounting for t Classication and measurement of to available-for-sale financial assets contributions from employees and third financial assets and financial liabilities involves the assessment of future cash parties to dened benefit plans.
the standard requires that all financial ows which is judgemental in nature assets be classied as either held at fair The proposed amendments are expected value or amortised cost.
The amortised Refer to pages 29 to 39 to be nalised by July 2013.
The group cost classication is only permitted in volume two in the risk is evaluating the impact of the reviewed where it is held within a business management section standard, which is not expected to be model where the underlying cash for further analysis on material.
ows are held in order to collect impairments.
contractual cash ows and that There are other proposed amendments t The groups income tax charge the cash ows arise solely from which do not have a material impact to the and balance sheet provision are payment of principal and interest.
financial statements and thus have not been judgemental in nature.
This arises The standard further provides that highlighted or discussed above.
from certain transactions for which gains and losses on assets held at the ultimate tax treatment can only fair value are measured through the be determined by final resolution with income statement unless the entity has Key management the relevant local tax authorities.
The elected to present gains and losses group recognises liabilities for taxation on non-trading equity investments assumptions based on estimates of levels of taxation individually elected directly through expected to be payable, taking into comprehensive income.
With reference In preparation of the financial statements consideration expert external advice to financial liabilities held at fair value, the group makes estimations and applies where appropriate.
The final resolution judgement that could affect the reported the standard proposes that changes may result in different amounts of cash to fair value attributable to credit risk is amount of assets and liabilities within the ows to those initially provided and any taken directly to other comprehensive next financial year.
Key areas in which necessary adjustments are taken into income without recycling.
These are judgement is applied include: consideration in the period in which they 1 current deliberations which may result in are identied t Valuation of unlisted investments in the limited modications to IFRS 9 relating private equity and direct investments to classication and measurement t Determination of interest income and portfolios.
Key valuation inputs are interest expense using the effective t Impairment methodology The key based on the most relevant observable interest method involves judgement in change is related to a shift from an market inputs, adjusted where determining the timing and extent of incurred loss to an expected loss necessary for factors that specically future cash ows.
Revisions apply to the individual investments and to the methodology are subject recognising market volatility to deliberation, with expected amendments to IFRS 9 in 2013.
