I Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Reliance n t e e r v n e E a n l t x r s i t s s d s e e k n r e a r u s s n d e s e i a c c c e i l o l o o c n r t P e r p o R o r v i l s a P e k s s n a e n s t s s d e m c e n n a t s n Risk management continued Governance Operational risk The governance structure adopted to Operational risk denition manage operational risk within the bank Operational risk is the risk of loss arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, operates in terms of a levels of defence people or systems, or external events which occur in the course of business.
The model and provides combined assurance in consequences of operational risk events are not limited to financial consequences only, the following manner: but may also have non-financial consequences such as business disruption or reputational impacts.
Board and board committees We recognise that there is a significant risk inherent in the operations of a bank.
We t. POJUPS BOE SFWJFX UIF PQFSBUJPOBM risk exposures and metrics endeavour to manage operational risk exposures and events by maintaining and embedding an operational risk management framework which supports sound operational risk management practices.
"External assurance and supervision Operational risk management framework t &YUFSOBM BTTFTTNFOU PG PQFSBUJPOBM SJTL environment The operational risk management framework is diagrammatically represented below and t 0OTJUF SFWJFXT CZ UIF 4""3# '$"" includes practices, processes and procedures to identify, assess, report, mitigate and PRA and APRA."
measure operational risk within the bank.
"Internal assurance t OEFQFOEFOU SFWJFX PG GSBNFXPSL BOE its effectiveness t ""VEJU mOEJOHT JOUFHSBUFE JOUP operational risk management process."
Group operational risk management t $IBMMFOHF BOE SFWJFX CVTJOFTT VOJU operational practices and data t. BJOUBJO PQFSBUJPOBM SJTL GSBNFXPSL and policy t 3FQPSU UP CPBSE BOE CPBSE DPNNJUUFFT on operational risk exposures, events and emerging issues.
Operational risk Business unit management t EFOUJGZ PXO BOE NJUJHBUF PQFSBUJPOBM risk t &TUBCMJTI BOE NBJOUBJO BO BQQSPQSJBUF operational risk and control environment.
The board, through the BRCC, has established and mandated an independent group operational risk management function to manage operational risk within the bank.
Policies and procedures are developed at a group level to ensure that operational risk is managed in an appropriate and consistent manner.
The embedded risk managers ERMs manage operational risk through review, challenge Reporting Technology Risk appetite and escalation of issues.
significant risk exposures and events are subject to action and escalation by the ERMs in terms of the operational risk appetite policy.
This policy sets out the operational risk exposure that the group is willing to accept or retain.
Business unit management implements and embeds policies and procedures to manage operational risk and ensures alignment with the groups risk appetite.
All personnel are adequately skilled at both a business unit and a group level.
Investec integrated annual report 2013 75 r e v o G S c e n a S r i o y e s k s s l i r s t p t l e a n o n e r m v e e t e x P s I E n d i c a t o r s Assurance Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued Reporting Operational risk practices Enhancement of t Group Operational Risk Management The following practices are used for reports to the board, BRCC and audit the risk and control the management of operational risk as committee on a regular basis described below: environment has t A reporting process is in place to Risk and control assessments remained a key area ensure that risk exposures are identied t Qualitative assessment that identies of focus.
and that key risks are appropriately key operational risks and controls escalated and managed.
t This provides an understanding of the Technology risk prole including the identication of t An operational risk system is in place to inadequate controls.
support operational risk practices and Risk indicators processes.
t Monitoring of risk exposure Operational risk year under t Metrics are used to monitor risk review exposure against identied thresholds The bank continues to operate under the Standardised approach to operational risk.
t Assists in predictive capability through provision of early warning signs.
Enhancement of the risk and control environment has remained a key area of Internal risk events focus for the year under review.
In addition, t Any incidents relating to people, internal the bank recognises the need to enhance processes or systems that have failed practices relating to other components of the operational risk management t Operational risk events, with either a framework.
The enhancement of practices financial or non-financial consequence, is currently being driven through identied are captured project work streams, which over the next t A causal analysis is performed few years aim to deliver more effective management of operational risk aligned t Enables business to identify trends in to industry best practice and regulatory losses and correct control weaknesses.
External risk events Regular interaction with regulators t Events are collected from public promotes an understanding of regulatory sources and are analysed to inform expectations and informs the approach potential control failures within the bank to regulatory changes and requirements.
Awareness of best practice is achieved t The output of this analysis is used through interaction with industry as input into the operational risk counterparts at formal industry forums.
The graphs and gures below represent the Scenarios distribution of the value and number of risk t Extreme, unexpected, but plausible loss events across the Basel risk event types for events which may not yet have been the period April 2012 to March 2013. experienced for which the financial and non-financial impacts are evaluated 1 t Used to measure the impact arising from operational risk exposures which are considered in determining internal operational risk capital requirements.
76 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued Operational risk events by risk category % of total value of risk events Percentage 100 85.85 84.15 80 60 40 20 11.95 10 7.53 3.53 2.89 3.11 0.75 0.75 00 0 0 -0.02 -0,49 2012 % of total value of risk events -20 2013 % of total value of risk events Business Clients, Damage Execution, Employment External Internal disruption products and to physical delivery and practices and fraud fraud and system business assets process workplace practices management safety failures Operational risk events by risk category % of total number of risk events Percentage 60 54.03 50.23 50 48.49 45.14 40 30 20 10 0.88 0.29 2012 % of total number of risk events 0.27 0.24 0.15 0.21 0.03 0.04 00 0 2013 % of total number of risk events Business Clients, Damage Execution, Employment External Internal to physical disruption products and delivery and practices and fraud fraud and system business assets process workplace failures practices management safety 1 The majority of losses are experienced in the execution, delivery and process management risk category and are driven by a few large loss events.
Trend and causal analysis is performed to improve the control environment.
The external fraud category includes credit card fraud.
During the year, fraudulent activity relating to credit card fraud has increased.
Limiting financial loss through the identication and development of mitigation strategies remains a focus area.
Investec integrated annual report 2013 77 Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued Key operational risk considerations The following risks are key focuses of the group which may result in the reduction of earnings if they materialise.
JUJHBUJPO PG SJTL Financial crime Risk associated with fraud, forgery, theft and corruption t Ensuring that appropriate action is taken in respect of fraudulent activities t Identifying criminal acts against the group and investigating and recovering losses t Engaging with external specialists and industry forums Information security risk Risk associated with the condentiality, integrity or t Identication of threats to our information assets and assessment of availability of information assets irrespective of location associated risk exposures to these assets or medium including both physical and electronic t Implementation of management and technical controls to reduce or mitigate identied information security risks t Evaluation of risks posed by third party service providers which process and store our information t Conducting information security awareness training to all employees t Establishment of information technology IT policies to manage potential exposures t Establishing and testing security incidents or breach response processes Process failure Risk associated with inadequate or missing internal t Process failure related losses are continually mitigated through careful processes, including human errors and control failures consideration of control effectiveness within the business.
This includes process origination, t Causal analysis of failure related losses, both potential and actual, identies execution and operations weakness in controls Regulatory and compliance risk Risk associated with identication, implementation and t Group Compliance and Group Legal Risk assist in the management of risk monitoring of compliance with regulations t Identication and adherence to legal and regulatory requirements t Review practices and policies as regulatory requirements change Technology risk Risk associated with the reliance on technology to t Establishment of an IT risk assessment framework to consistently and support business processes and client services.
effectively assess IT exposures across the business This relates to the operations, usage, ownership and t Monitoring risk exposures related to adoption of new technologies responsibility of IT systems across the business t Implementing and operating controls to manage IT related risks t Identication and remediation of vulnerabilities identied in IT systems, applications, and IT processes t Establishing appropriate IT recovery capabilities to safeguard against application failures, telecom outages and data corruption t Establishing effective IT incident management processes to minimise the adverse impact of interruption to IT systems and services 1 Insurance The group maintains adequate insurance to cover key insurable risks.
The insurance process and requirements are managed by the group insurance risk manager.
Regular interaction between Group Operational Risk Management and Group Insurance Risk Management ensures that there is an exchange of information in order to enhance the mitigation of operational risks.
