Annual financial statements Directors responsibility statement The following statement, which should be degrees of risk of each function or statements have been prepared on that read in conjunction with the auditors reports aspect of the business basis.
set out on pages 11 to 13, is made with a t The group audit committee, together It is the responsibility of the independent view to distinguishing for stakeholders the with Internal Audit, plays an integral auditors to report on the combined respective responsibilities of the directors and role in matters relating to financial and consolidated financial statements.
Their of the auditors in relation to the combined internal control, accounting policies, reports to the members of the companies are consolidated financial statements.
set out on pages 11 to 13 in volume three of The directors are responsible for the this report.
As far as the directors are aware, To the best of our knowledge and belief, preparation, integrity and objectivity of the there is no relevant audit information of which based on the above, the directors are combined consolidated financial statements the companies auditors are unaware.
All satisfied that no material breakdown in the that fairly present the state of affairs of the relevant audit information has been provided operation of the system of internal control group at the end of the financial year and the to the companies auditors.
and procedures has occurred during the net income and cash ows for the year, and year under review.
other information contained in this report.
Approval of financial The group consistently adopts appropriate To enable the directors to meet these and recognised accounting policies responsibilities: statements and these are supported by reasonable t The board and management judgements and estimates on a consistent The directors report and the set standards and management basis and provides additional disclosures financial statements of the implements systems of internal when compliance with the specic companies and the group, which controls and accounting and requirements in International Financial appear on pages 5 to 10 and information systems aimed at providing Reporting Standards IFRS are insufficient pages 14 to 115, were approved reasonable assurance that assets are to enable users to understand the impact by the board of directors on safeguarded and the risk of fraud, error of particular transactions, other events and 11 June 2013. or loss is reduced in a cost effective conditions on the groups financial position manner.
These controls, contained in The directors are responsible for the and financial performance.
established policies and procedures, maintenance and integrity of the corporate The financial statements of the companies include the proper delegation of and financial information included on the and the group have been prepared in responsibilities and authorities within companies website.
Legislation in the accordance with the respective Companies a clearly dened framework, effective United Kingdom governing the preparation Acts of the United Kingdom and South accounting procedures and adequate and dissemination of the financial Africa and comply with IFRS and Article 4 segregation of duties statements may differ from legislation in of the IAS regulation and comply with other jurisdictions.
t The groups internal audit function, which UK GAAP in respect of Investec plc parent operates unimpeded and independently company accounts.
Signed on behalf of the board from operational management, and has unrestricted access to the group The directors are of the opinion, based on audit committee, appraises and, when their knowledge of the companies, key necessary, recommends improvements processes in operation and specic Stephen Koseff Bernard Kantor in the system of internal controls and enquiries, that adequate resources exist to Chief executive officer Managing director accounting practices, based on audit support the companies on a going concern 11 June 2013 plans that take cognisance of the relative basis over the next year.
These financial 1 Declaration by the company secretary In terms of section 88 2 e of the South African Companies Act No 71 of 2008, as amended the Act, I hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, Investec Limited has lodged with the Companies and Intellectual Property Commission, for the financial year ended 31 March 2013, all such returns and notices as are required in terms of the Act and that all such returns and notices are true, correct and up to date.
Benita Coetsee Company secretary, Investec Limited 11 June 2013 4 Investec integrated annual report 2013
