Overview of the year Financial review continued An overview of the operating environment impacting our business South Africa growth and widened the balance of South Africas economy payments deficit, Moodys, Standard and Our views has essentially doubled Poors and Fitch downgraded South Africas long-term foreign currency credit rating.
in real terms, generating The chance of further downgrades has substantial upward been lowered by the marked lessening in disruptive strike action and recent social mobility, with South Africa has seen moderation in projected real government most now experiencing many considerable expenditure, as well as maintaining the a signicantly higher successes in the past two forecast period during which planned scal consolidation is reached.
decades on the significant standard of living.
rise in economic freedom South Africas private sector continues to resulting from the be highly ranked in the World Economic Indeed, the direct, positive correlation abolition of apartheid.
Forums Global Competitiveness Survey, between economic freedom and wealth As the entire population retaining first place for the third year in a creation, economic growth, poverty row for both the regulation of the countrys obtained the right to self reduction, higher levels of investment securities exchange JSE and strength of determination, from where and greater equality generated auditing and reporting standards.
South to live, work and invest, economic growth of 3.2% a year since Africa retains its second place in terms of to what to consume, trade 1994, compared to only 1.6% per annum soundness of banks for the second year and own including land, in the final eighteen years of apartheid.
and is now placed first on the efcacy of its economic freedom and corporate boards.
However, government Real after-tax income has risen to an hence growth improved provision of healthcare, education and safety average of R24 761 per person, from and security is ranked amongst the worst substantially.
1994s R17 320, effectively doubling real in the world, while the level of co-operation tax revenues and affording the considerable between labour and corporates is ranked expansion of the social welfare net, including the lowest in the one hundred and forty-four Economic Economic the provision of free basic services and World Economic Forums country survey.
growth 2011 12 growth 2012 13 direct monetary transfers to the poor.
The state provision of basic services has been Consequently the recent National extensive: 63% to 94% of households Development Plan, an economic framework now live with sanitation, in formal homes for South Africa until 2030, focuses on 2.2% 2.5% with electricity and access to clean water addressing these problems, along with respectively in 1994 access to these unemployment rate, poverty and inequality, 1 respective services ranged from 50% by professionalising the civil service, Real income per capita to 64%.
improving the quality of healthcare and has risen education, increasing exports and support While it is impossible to sustainably for small businesses and so promoting eradicate the legacy of apartheid in a higher incomes via productivity growth.
comparatively short space of time without 2012 2013 state penury, governments service delivery The need for strong leadership and effective has been negatively impacted by high government is also clearly recognised by R36 903 R37 476 costs due in part to inefficiencies, wastage the ruling party, with additional aims of and corruption which has contributed to improving investment and innovation levels, both higher budget deficits and borrowing efficient and competitive infrastructure and requirements.
In combination with the a labour market that is more responsive to recent violent strikes, that cut economic economic opportunity.
26 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Overview of the year Financial review continued United Kingdom Australia Over the 2012 13 Our views Our views financial year, UK economic growth remained lacklustre.
Whilst a triple dip The Australian economy Seeking to support the UK economy recession during this expanded by 3.1% in 2012, onto a rmer footing, but stopping up from its 2.6% 2011 period seemed to have short of a sustained push for a stronger been avoided, at the growth rate and in line with recovery because of above target end of the financial year the average growth rate for ination, the UK Monetary Policy the pre-2008 crisis decade.
UK output still stood Committee kept policy expansionary 2.6% below its pre-crisis during the period.
peak, some five years The bank rate remained at a record low Economic Economic after the initial move into growth 2011 12 growth 2012 13 of 0.5% whilst the Bank of England, at recession.
the end of the period, had bought around 375 billion of assets via its Quantitative Easing QE programme, having upped that Economic Economic 2.6% 3.1% total by 50 billion during the course of the growth 2011 12 growth 2012 13 year.
The bank also launched the Funding for Real income per capita has risen Lending Scheme in August 2012 in an effort 0.3% 0.2% to boost overall and small business focused lending: material results have yet to be 2012 2013 seen, though it is still relatively early days.
Real income per capita A$63 744 A$65 612 has risen The UK was stripped of its AAA long-term sovereign credit rating during the financial year with Moodys cutting its rating with a one notch downgrade to Aa1, with a stable Growth started 2012 robustly, but 2012 2013 outlook, in February 2013. softened to stand at a quarterly pace of 1 0.6% in each of the second, third and 24 031 24 373 In March 2013, Fitch put the UK on ratings fourth quarters of 2012, as China and watch negative downgrading it to AA the global economy more broadly lost in April.
As the review period closed, growth momentum.
Standard and Poors had a negative outlook on the UKs rating.
However, there was not Furthermore, a squeeze on domestic a long lasting market reaction to the news expenditure through the scal consolidation of these downgrades with confidence aided programme also took its toll on the pace by the Chancellor sticking rigidly to his of Australian output expansion.
Fears that goals of scal consolidation and a broad the mining peak had now been passed as plan for achieving this, albeit with success Chinese growth appeared to be moving onto in the headline scal metrics so far limited.
a lower long-term track, pushed the Reserve Bank of Australia RBA into easing policy four times during the financial year, taking the RBAs cash rate down to a new record low of 3.00%, some 125 basis points lower than its position at the start of that period.
Investec integrated annual report 2013 27 Overview of the year Financial review continued An overview of the operating environment impacting our business continued United States Euro zone The US economy Our views The Euro crisis rumbled on through the expanded by 2.2% financial year.
From a relatively calm spring, over 2012 and made once Greeces debt restructuring had been dealt with in March 2012, market a respectable start to turmoil built through the summer.
Peripheral 2013 recording growth of government bonds came under pressure, The steady US recovery with Spain and Italy both looking increasingly 2.5% on an annualised over the three years vulnerable to a bailout as their respective seasonally adjusted since 2010 meant that at government bond yields tracked higher as the end of the 2012 13 basis in Q1.
European Central Bank ECB President Mario financial year, US GDP Draghi sought to reinstall a state of calm to stood 3.3% up on its 2008 markets by saying he would do whatever The payroll tax hike which came into pre-crisis peak level.
it took to save the Euro whilst unveiling effect in January 2013 and the sequester the ECBs new rescue backstop, Outright spending cuts which took effect in Monetary Transactions OMT.
Under the March 2013, both look set to slow OMT the ECB offered the reassurance that growth sharply in the second quarter.
it would purchase short-term government bonds, acting as a backstop, subject to This improvement in the economic conditions being satisfied by the country backdrop has also helped to support a requesting assistance.
The promise of modest recovery in the US job market the OMT backstop was enough, without with the unemployment rate having slid its deployment, to help to bring down close to 7.5%.
Broader measures of the peripheral bond yields signicantly and calm USs recovery position have also built over Euro crisis strains.
However, tensions over the past year.
The pace of loans to the Greece resurfaced in the autumn, related commercial and industrial sector continued to whether the Troika would be able to to grow at a rapid pace, helping to build sign off on a revised bailout and release the USs industrial recovery.
In the housing further urgently needed aid cash because sector, activity levels climbed sharply of significant slippage in Greeces reform over the past year with the price recovery and scal objectives.
Greece was eventually building too, helping to lift consumer granted the aid cash, as it signed up to a sentiment with it.
refreshed reform programme and tensions subsequently calmed.
But almost as soon Despite this improving picture, the US 1 as Greek fears had been addressed, Cyprus recovery still has some way to go: hence came into focus as the next problem.
the Federal Reserve loosened policy over Cyprus eventually ended up the recipient the past year.
The Feds policy package of a full bailout agreement in March 2013, included the announcement of the second but not before faith in the rescue backstops Operation Twist phase in June 2012, had been thoroughly shaken with uninsured followed by QE3 through which, by depositors and senior bondholders both the start of 2013, the Federal Reserve initially put in line for losses as part of the was purchasing a total of U$85 billion of Cypriot agreement.
Hence, whilst the Euro Mortgage Backed Securities and longersurvived another turbulent year, 2012 13 term Treasury securities per month.
Those closed on a sour note with questions being purchases were still ongoing at the end asked about the robustness of the backstop of the financial year, as the US central and rescue mechanisms in place to cope bank sought to maintain accommodation with further rounds of turmoil.
The macroin the face of the scal squeeze from the economy of the Euro area did not fare any payroll tax hike and as the squeeze of the better, re-entering recession from Q2 2012 sequester loomed.
with that weakness having persisted into the first quarter of 2013 too.
