Financial Statements ACCOUNTING POLICIES The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for Basis of preparation business combinations.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU, IFRIC transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to Companies contingent consideration arrangement.
Identifiable assets acquired and reporting under IFRSs.
The consolidated financial statements have been liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are prepared on a going concern basis, under the historical cost convention, measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
On an as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale assets and derivative  basis, the Group recognises any nonfinancial instruments.
controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the nonStandards, amendments and controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
interpretations effective in 2013 Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
The following standards have been adopted by the group for the first time If a business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and have a Groups previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to material impact on the group: fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
Amendment to IAS 1, Financial statement presentation regarding other Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is comprehensive income.
The main change resulting from these recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to amendments is a requirement for entities to group items presented in the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an other comprehensive income OCI on the basis of whether they are asset or liability is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or potentially reclassifiable to profit or loss subsequently reclassification loss or as a charge to other comprehensive income.
consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured, and its IAS 19, Employee benefits was revised in June 2011.
The changes on subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
the groups accounting policies has been as follows: to replace interest The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any noncost and expected return on plan assets with a net interest amount that controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the liability asset.
The restatement of the prior year has increased the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the total of income statement charge by 5,049,000 as the discount rate applied to consideration transferred, non-controlling interest recognised and assets is lower than the expected return on assets.
The revision to the previously held interest measured is less than the fair value of the net standard also requires that administration expenses borne by the assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the schemes not related to the administration of plan assets be recognised in difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
the income statement: the impact of this is 200,000.
The total effect has been that the income statement charge for the year to 31st Inter-company transactions, balances, income and expenses on December 2012 has increased by 5,249,000 net of tax: 4,294,000. transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Accounting The restatement of the prior year has reduced the basic and diluted policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure earnings per share by 2p.
This has no effect on total comprehensive consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
income as the increased charge in profit or loss is offset by a credit in Transactions with non-controlling interests other comprehensive income.
Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement, aims to improve consistency and control are accounted for as equity transactions that is, as transactions reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair value and a with the owners in their capacity as owners.
single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs.
The requirements, which are largely aligned between The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the IFRSs and US GAAP, do not extend the use of fair value accounting but relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the provide guidance on how it should be applied where its use is already subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to nonrequired or permitted by other standards within IFRSs.
controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
Basis of consolidation Disposal of subsidiaries Subsidiaries When the Group ceases to have control any retained interest in the entity is re-measured to its fair value at the date when control is lost, with the Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss.
the financial and operating policies so as to obtain economic benefits and generally accompany a shareholding of more than one half of the voting The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the venture or financial asset.
In addition, any amounts previously recognised Group controls another entity.
in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities.
The Group also recognises control where it does not have more than 50% of the voting power but is able to govern the financial and operating This may mean that amounts previously recognised in other policies by virtue of fide-facto control.
fide-facto control may arise in comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.
circumstances where the size of the Groups voting rights relative to the Associates size and dispersion of holdings of other shareholders give the Group the power to govern the financial and operating policies.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that using the equity method of accounting.
84 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost, ii income and expenses for each income statement are translated at and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable investors share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the acquisition.
transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions : and The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill identified on acquisition.
iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income.
If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant influence is retained, only a proportionate share of the amounts previously On consolidation exchange differences arising from the translation of net recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to profit or loss investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency where appropriate.
instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to other comprehensive income.
When a foreign operation is sold, such The Groups share of post-acquisition profit or loss is recognised in the exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part of income statement, and its share of post acquisition movements in other the gain or loss on sale.
comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income with a corresponding adjustment to the carrying amount of the Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign investment.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured translated at the closing rate.
Exchange differences arising are recognised receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has in other comprehensive income.
incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of Goodwill arising on consolidation the associate.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates.
subsidiary associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides subsidiaries is shown separately on the Balance Sheet.
Goodwill on evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of acquisitions of associates is included in investments in associates.
the associates have been modified where necessary to ensure Goodwill arising on acquisitions completed prior to 1st January 1998 was consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
written off directly to reserves.
Following the adoption of IFRS this Segment reporting goodwill remains written off to reserves and no adjustment would be Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal made on subsequent disposal.
For acquisitions completed on or after 1st reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief January 1998 and before 1st January 2004, goodwill is stated on the operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and balance sheet at its previously amortised net book value.
assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as For acquisitions completed on or after 1st January 2004, goodwill is the Chief Executive Officer.
tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include Foreign currencies the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill is Functional and presentation currency allocated to cash generating units, or groups of cash generating units, for Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities the purpose of impairment testing.
Cash generating units represent the are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in lowest level of geographical and business segment combinations that the which the entity operates the functional currency.
Group uses for internal reporting purposes.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is Other intangible assets the Groups presentation currency.
Computer software Transactions and balances Acquired computer software licenses are capitalised on the basis of the Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency costs incurred to acquire them and bring them to use.
These costs are using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Costs associated with Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such developing or maintaining computer software programmes are transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of recognised as an expense as incurred.
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity as unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will generate qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities held at intangible assets.
Direct costs include the software development fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part of the fair value gain employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities Computer software development costs recognised as assets are classified as available-for-sale financial assets, are included in other amortised over their estimated useful lives.
The rates of amortisation are between 14% and 100% per annum.
Group companies Capitalised employment contract payments The results and financial position of all the Group entities none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a functional The Group makes payments to certain key employees in recognition of currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the them signing a long-term employment contact, usually three to five years.
presentation currency as follows: These payments are capitalised as intangible assets since legal rights protect the expected benefits that the Group will derive from the i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated contracts.
at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: 85 Financial Statements ACCOUNTING POLICIES The asset recognised is then amortised over the duration of the 2 Other investments include securities and other investments held for underlying contract within salaries and associated expenses.
These investments are held at fair value unless a fair value cannot be accurately determined in which case they are Other held at cost less any provision for impairment.
For acquisitions completed after 1st January 2004, the business acquired Interest on deposits and interest-bearing investments is credited as it is is reviewed to identify assets that meet the definition of an intangible earned.
Examples of such assets include customer contracts, expectations of business renewal and contract related customer Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the relationships.
These assets are valued on the basis of the present value trade date - the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the of future cash flows and are amortised to the income statement over the asset.
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction life of the contract or their estimated economic life.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash estimated economic life is fifteen years.
flows have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
 of assets sale assets are subsequently carried at fair value.
Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation The fair values of quoted investments are determined based upon current and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to bid price.
amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Changes in the value of securities classified as available-for-sale are An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets recognised in other comprehensive income.
carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
Insurance broking receivables and payables The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to Insurance brokers act as agents in placing the insurable risks of their sell and value-in-use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets clients with insurers and, as such, are not liable as principals for amounts are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable arising from such transactions.
In recognition of this relationship, debtors cash flows cash-generating units.
from insurance broking transactions are not included as an asset of the Property, plant and equipment Group.
Other than the receivable for fees and commissions earned on a transaction, no recognition of the insurance transaction occurs until the Assets are stated at their net book value historical cost less accumulated Group receives cash in respect of premiums or claims, at which time a depreciation.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and corresponding liability is established in favour of the insurer or the client.
the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of such In certain circumstances, the Group advances premiums, refunds or assets over their estimated useful lives.
claims to insurance underwriters or clients prior to collection.
The principal rates of depreciation are as follows: These advances are reflected in the consolidated balance sheet as part of trade receivables.
Freehold land and buildings - between 0% and 2% per annum.
Leasehold improvements - between 10% and 20% per annum or Trade receivables over the life of the lease.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost, less provision for impairment.
Furniture and office equipment - between 10% and 20% per annum.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there Computer hardware - between 20% and 100% per annum.
is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts Motor vehicles - between 25% and 33 1 3% per annum.
due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, dispute, default or delinquency in payments are The depreciation rates are reviewed on an annual basis.
considered indicators that the receivable is impaired.
Financial assets The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an The Group classifies its financial assets as loans and receivables and allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the available-for-sale investments.
The classification depends upon the income statement.
purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables.
Loans and receivables Cash and cash equivalents Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown within after the balance sheet date.
borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
The Group's loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
Loans and Trade payables receivables are carried at amortised cost.
Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Available-for-sale financial assets Borrowings Available-for-sale financial assets are categorised according to their nature into one of two categories: Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 1 Investments and deposits, which consist mainly of fixed deposits, months after the balance sheet date.
Borrowings are recognised initially bonds and certificates of deposit.
These investments are held at fair at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
They are subsequently value and are classified between current and non-current assets stated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
86 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 Deferred income tax Share-based compensation The charge for taxation is based on the result for the year at current rates The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based of tax and takes into account deferred tax.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact statements.
However, if the deferred income tax arises from initial of any non-market vesting conditions for example, profitability and sales recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become nor taxable profit or loss, it is not recognised.
Deferred income tax is exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
It substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity.
deferred income tax liability is settled.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs Deferred income tax is charged or credited to equity in respect of any are credited to share capital at nominal value and share premium excess items, which is itself either charged or credited directly to equity.
over nominal value when the options are exercised.
Any subsequent recognition of the deferred gain or loss in the Provisions for liabilities and charges consolidated income statement is accompanied by the corresponding A provision is recognised where there is a present obligation, whether deferred income tax.
legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for which it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable and a reasonable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary Where appropriate the Group discounts provisions to their present value.
The unwinding of the provision discounting is included as an interest Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on charge within finance costs in the income statement.
investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the Group controls the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is Revenue probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable Fees and commissions future.
Fees and commissions are derived from three principal sources: Employee benefits Insurance broking Pension costs Income relating to insurance broking is accounted for at the later of policy The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes, and a inception date or when the policy placement has been completed and number of employees are members of defined contribution pension confirmed.
Where there is an expectation of future servicing requirements an element Full actuarial valuations of the Groups main defined benefit schemes are of income relating to the policy is deferred to cover the associated carried out at least every three years.
A qualified actuary updates these valuations to 31st December each year.
Employee benefits For the purposes of these annual updates, scheme assets are included at Income relating to employee benefit services includes fees and market value and scheme liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis commissions.
Fees are charged on a time-cost or fixed-fee basis and are using the projected unit credit method: these liabilities are discounted at recognised in line with the performance of the underlying service.
the current rate of return of an AA corporate bond of equivalent currency Commission is recognised upon confirmation of the underlying policy or and term.
The defined benefit surplus or deficit is calculated as the product.
present value of defined benefit obligations less the fair value of the plan Other services assets and is included on the Groups balance sheet.
Surpluses are included only to the extent that they are recoverable through reduced Fees and other income receivable are recognised in the period to which contributions in the future or through refunds from the schemes.
The net they relate and when they can be measured with reasonable certainty.
interest on the defined benefit liability asset is included within finance Investment Income costs.
Actuarial gains and losses, including differences between the expected and actual return on scheme assets, are recognised through Investment income arises from the holding of cash and investments the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
relating to fiduciary funds and is recognised on an accruals basis.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays Exceptional items fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal or Exceptional items are separately identified to provide greater constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not understanding of the Groups underlying performance.
Items classified as hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to exceptional items include: gains or losses arising from the sale of employee service in the current and prior periods.
businesses and investments: closure costs for businesses: restructuring costs: professional fees in respect of acquisitions: post acquisition The costs of the Groups defined contribution pension schemes are integration costs: and other credits and charges of non-recurring nature charged to the income statement in the period in which they fall due.
that require inclusion in order to provide additional insight into the underlying business performance.
Items of a non-recurring and material nature are charged or credited to operating profit and are classified to the appropriate income statement headings.
87 Financial Statements ACCOUNTING POLICIES To assist in the analysis and understanding of the underlying trading Financial and capital risk position of the Group these items are summarised within the operating management profit, note 3 on page 94, under the heading of Exceptional items.
The Groups exposure to financial risks and its financial and capital management policies are detailed in the Finance Directors Review and Leases the Risk Management Report on pages 39 to 42.
Assets held under leasing agreements, which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group are included in property, Critical accounting estimates and judgments plant and equipment.
The capital elements of the related lease obligations Estimates and judgments used in preparing the financial statements are are included in liabilities.
The interest elements of the lease obligations are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other charged to the income statement over the period of the lease term.
factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is equal the related actual results.
depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant effect on the Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are discussed below.
ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
a Fair value estimation Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line available-for-sale is based upon quoted market prices at the balance basis over the period of the lease.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Derivative financial instruments Group is the current bid price.
The Group only enters into derivative financial instruments in order to The carrying value less impairment provision of trade receivables and hedge underlying financial and commercial exposures.
payables are assumed to approximate their fair values.
The fair values of Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the financial liabilities is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently reflows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for measured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain similar financial instruments.
or loss is dependent on the nature of the item being hedged.
The fair value of acquired intangible assets is estimated based upon the present value of modelled related expected future cash flows.
The Group designates derivatives as either a hedge of the fair value of a recognised asset or liability fair value hedge, or a hedge of a forecasted b Impairment of assets transaction or of the foreign currency risk on a firm commitment cash The Group tests annually whether goodwill and other assets that have flow hedge, or a hedge of a net investment in a foreign entity net indefinite useful lives suffered any impairment.
Other assets are reviewed investment hedges.
for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as that the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
fair value hedges and that are highly effective, are recorded in the The recoverable amount of an asset or a cash generating unit is consolidated income statement, along with any changes in the fair value determined based on value-in-use calculations prepared on the basis of of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
This determination requires Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as significant judgment.
In making this judgment, the Group evaluates, cash flow hedges and that are highly effective, are recognised in equity.
among other factors, the duration and extent to which the fair value of an Where the forecasted transaction or firm commitment results in the investment is less than its cost: and the financial health of and near-term recognition of a non-financial asset or of a non-financial liability, the gains business outlook for the investment, including factors such as industry and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and and sector performance, changes in regional economies and operational included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Otherwise, amounts deferred in equity are transferred to the consolidated A 1% increase in the relevant discount rate would not have created an income statement and classified as income or expense in the same impairment.
periods during which the hedged firm commitment or forecasted transaction affects the consolidated income statement.
c Income taxes The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
immediately in the income statement.
Significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations for which When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss business.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from existing in equity at that time remains in the hedging reserves and is the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the recognised when the committed or forecasted transaction ultimately is income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such recognised in the consolidated income statement.
When a committed or determination is made.
forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative d Pension obligations gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of Dividend distribution assumptions.
Dividends proposed or declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised as a liability at the balance sheet date.
Final dividends are The assumption used in determining the net cost or income for pension recognised as a charge to equity once approved and interim dividends obligations is a discount rate based upon AA corporate bonds.
Any changes in the assumptions may impact the carrying amount of pension obligations, the charge in the income statement, or statement of comprehensive income.
88 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each IFRS 11, Joint arrangements focuses on the rights and obligations of year.
This is the interest rate that should be used to determine the the parties to the arrangement rather than its legal form.
There are two present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required types of joint arrangements, joint operations and joint ventures.
Joint to settle the pension obligations.
operations arise where the investors have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities of an arrangement.
A joint operator accounts In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the for its share of the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses.
Joint interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the ventures arise where the investors have rights to the net assets of the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to arrangement: joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method.
maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
Other key Proportional consolidation of joint arrangements is no longer permitted.
assumptions for pension obligations are based in part on current market The Group is yet to assess IFRS 11s full impact and intends to adopt conditions.
IFRS 11 no later than the accounting period beginning on 1st January e Errors and omissions liability 2014.
During the ordinary course of business the Group can be subject to IFRS 12, Disclosures of interests in other entities includes the disclosure claims for errors and omissions made in connection with its broking requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including joint activities.
arrangements, associates, structured entities and other off balance sheet vehicles.
The Group is yet to assess IFRS 12s full impact and intends to A balance sheet provision is established in respect of such claims when it adopt IFRS 12 no later than the accounting period beginning on 1st is probable that the liability has been incurred and the amount of the January 2014. liability can be reasonably estimated.
Amendments to IAS 36, Impairment of assets, on the recoverable The Group analyses its litigation exposures based on available amount disclosures for non-financial assets.
This amendment removed information, including external legal consultation where appropriate, to certain disclosures of the recoverable amount of CGUs which had been assess its potential liability.
included in IAS 36 by the issue of IFRS 13.
The outcome of the currently pending and future proceedings cannot be IFRIC 21, Levies, sets out the accounting for an obligation to pay a levy predicted with certainty.
Thus, an adverse decision in a current or future that is not income tax.
The interpretation addresses what the obligating lawsuit could result in additional costs that are not covered, either wholly event is that gives rise to pay a levy and when should a liability be or partially, under insurance policies and are in excess of the presently recognised.
The Group is not currently subjected to significant levies so established provisions.
It is possible therefore that the financial position, the impact on the Group is not material.
results of operations or cash flows of the Group could be materially affected by the unfavourable outcome of litigation.
Future developments The following standards and amendments to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1st January 2014 or later periods, but the Group has not adopted them early.
None of the changes are expected to have a significant impact on the Group: IFRS 9, Financial instruments, addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
IFRS 9 was issued in November 2009 and October 2010.
It replaces the parts of IAS 39 that relate to the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
IFRS 9 requires financial assets to be classified into two measurement categories: those measured as at fair value and those measured at amortised cost.
The determination is made at initial recognition.
The classification depends on the entitys business model for managing its financial instruments and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the instrument.
For financial liabilities, the standard retains most of the IAS 39 requirements.
The main change is that, in cases where the fair value option is taken for financial liabilities, the part of a fair value change due to an entitys own credit risk is recorded in other comprehensive income rather than the income statement, unless this creates an accounting mismatch.
The Group is yet to assess IFRS 9s full impact and intends to adopt IFRS 9 no later than the accounting period beginning on 1st January 2015.
The Group will also consider the impact of the remaining phases of IFRS 9 when completed by the Board.
IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements builds on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor in whether an entity should be included within the consolidated financial statements of the parent company.
The standard provides additional guidance to assist in the determination of control where this is difficult to assess.
The Group is yet to assess IFRS 10s full impact and intends to adopt IFRS 10 no later than the accounting period beginning on 1st January 2014.
