01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2013 83.
Group Structure JLIF invests via a series of holding entities, as follows: The Company invests in equity and profit participation instruments of JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. Luxco 1, a socit responsabilit limite S.. r. l. established in Luxembourg, which in turn invests in equity and debt of a similar entity, JLIF Luxco 2 S.. r. l. Luxco 2.
Both Luxco 1 and Luxco 2 together the Luxcos are wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company direct and indirect respectively, with Luxco 2 being wholly owned by Luxco 1.
Luxco 2 is the sole limited partner in the Partnership, an English limited partnership, which has a special purpose vehicle as its general partner the General Partner.
The General Partner is a wholly owned indirect subsidiary of John Laing plc.
The General Partner, on behalf of the Partnership, has appointed JLCM as Operator of the Partnership.
Luxco 2 primarily invests the contributions it receives from Luxco 1 in capital contributions and partner loans to the Partnership, which acquired and holds infrastructure investments directly or indirectly through intermediate wholly owned companies and or other entities.
The Companys infrastructure investments are registered in the name of the General Partner, the Partnership, subsidiaries of the Partnership or their respective nominees.
Investors Guernsey Investment Advisory John Laing JLIF Limited Listed Company Guernsey Agreement Capital Management Ltd Luxembourg JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. JLIF Luxco 2 S.. r. l. UK JLIF GP Ltd JLIF Limited Partnership Operator Asset Portfolio Direct Holdings Via JLIF Investments Ltd Via Holding Companies Abbotsford Hospital, Canada Pete rborough Hospital Greater Manchester Police Stations Avon and Somerset Courts Barnet Street Lighting MoD Main Building Bentilee Hub Community Centre Bex ley Schools Kingston Hospital E18 Road, Finland Bris tol BSF Newham Hospital Glasgow Schools Barn sley BSF Brockley Social Housing Highland Schools, Eneld Lambeth Street Lighting Canning Town Social Housing Kromhout Barracks, Netherlands Leeds Combined Secondary Schools M40 Motorway Manchester Street Lighting Peterborough Schools Camden Social Housing QEH, Greenwich Miles Platting Social Housing Cleveland Police Station South Lanarkshire Schools Northampton Mental Health Roseberry Park Hospital Sirhowy Way, Wales Realise Health LIFT, Colchester Met.
Specialist Police Training Centre Vancouver General Hospital Redcar & Cleveland Street Lighting Islington II Social Housing Wakeeld Street Lighting Eneld Street Lighting Forth Valley Royal Hospital Walsall Street Lighting Kelowna & Vernon Hospitals LUL Connect CityLink North Staffordshire Hospital M6 M74 motorway, Scotland North East Fire and Rescue Authority Newcastle Hospital North Swindon Schools Eneld Schools Newham Schools Heritage International Fund Managers Limited is the Administrator and Company Edinburgh Schools Secretary to JLIF Limited.
All other management functions are fullled by JLCM.
Tunbridge Wells Hospital Islington I Social Housing Intertrust Luxembourg S. r. l. formerly ATC Corporate Services Luxembourg S. A is the Administrator and Company Secretary to the Luxembourg entities.
 LLP, in Luxembourg, is supplying the accounting and tax functions for those companies.
JLIF Limited Partnership has an Operator Agreement with JLCM to provide all necessary management functions.
