01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2013 81.
Glossary Adjusted Portfolio Value a the Fair Value of the Investment Portfolio see Portfolio Value : plus b any cash owned by or held to the order of the Company the Consolidated Group : plus c the aggregate amount of payments made to shareholders by way of dividend in the period ending on the relevant valuation day, less i any borrowings and any other liabilities of the Company: and ii any uninvested cash.
Amended Existing FOA Means the first offer agreement between JLIF, the General Partner for and on behalf of the Partnership and John Laing dated 21 January 2014 amending the First Offer Agreement dated 28 October 2010.
Availability Based Payments Payment for the use of an asset by the public sector that is based upon whether the asset is available to be used or not.
This type of payment does not depend on the level of use of the asset.
Consolidated Group Means JLIF Limited, its two wholly owned Luxembourg subsidiaries JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. and JLIF Luxco 2 S.. r. l., JLIF Limited Partnership the English Limited Partnership and the 23 wholly owned subsidiaries of the English Limited Partnership.
Demand Based Payments Payment for the use of an asset by the public sector that depends on the level of use of that asset.
First Offer Agreement Means the first offer agreement between JLIF, the General Partner for and on behalf of the Partnership and John Laing dated 29 October 2010.
Government-backed revenue streams The payment received from the public sector for the use of an asset which is contractually binding subject to performance criteria.
Initial Public Offering IPO JLIFs first sale of stock to the public on 29 November 2010.
Investment Adviser John Laing Capital Management, acting in its capacity as investment adviser to John Laing Infrastructure Fund pursuant to the Investment Advisory Agreement.
Investment Advisory Agreement The investment advisory agreement between the Investment Adviser and John Laing Capital Management dated 27 October 2010.
Investment Investment Capital Partnership equity, loans, share capital, trust units, shareholder loans and or debt interests in or to project entities or any other entities or undertakings in which the fund invests or in which it may invest.
Investment Group The group of companies comprised of the Company, its two wholly owned Luxembourg subsidiaries JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. and JLIF Luxco 2 S.. r. l., the English Limited Partnership JLIF Limited Partnership and the wholly owned subsidiaries of the English Limited Partnership that together held the investments in the 37 assets at 31 December 2012.
John Laing or John Laing Group John Laing plc and all of its wholly owned subsidiaries, including John Laing Capital Management Limited.
John Laing Capital Management Limited Investment Adviser to the John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited and Operator of JLIF GP Limited.
Net Asset Value NAV Total Assets including Portfolio Value minus liabilities of the Consolidated Group.
This equates to the net assets under IFRS.
Net Asset Value NAV per share Net Asset Value NAV divided by the total number of Ordinary Shares issued as at 31 December 2013.
New FOA Means the new first offer agreement between JLIF, the General Partner for and on behalf of the Partnership and John Laing dated 21 January 2014.
Partnership Means JLIF Limited Partnership, a limited partnership registered in England registered number LP014109, which will hold and manage JLIFs investments.
PPP Public private partnerships PPPs are arrangements typied by joint working between the public and private sector.
In the broadest sense, PPPs can cover all types of collaboration across the interface between the public and private sectors to deliver policies, services and infrastructure.
Where delivery of public services involves private sector investment in infrastructure, the most common form of PPP is the Private Finance Initiative PFI.
Glossary continued Portfolio The 52 assets in which JLIF had a shareholding as at 31 December 2013.
Portfolio Value Valuation The sum of all of the individual assets net present values NPV.
Each assets NPV is calculated by discounting the future cash ows to JLIF, as shareholder to the 31 December 2013.
The Portfolio Value equates to the fair value of investments on the Groups IFRS balance sheet.
Project Entity Means a special purpose entity including any company, partnership or trust formed to undertake an infrastructure project or projects or provide infrastructure services.
Prospectus The Prospectus dated September 2013.
The Prospectus can be found at www.
Special Purpose Vehicle SPV A company that is used to facilitate a PPP contract between the public and private sector.
A company is incorporated and shareholders invest equity capital and a subordinated debt into the company.
The company enters in to nancing arrangements with senior lenders or bond providers to finance the development of the asset.
The company contracts with the public sector to design, build, finance and operate an asset.
It enters in to subcontracts with contractors and operating companies to carry out the required works and services.
Total Assets Sum of the Portfolio Value cash debtors other receivables of the Consolidated Group.
