Financial statements 163 Report of the independent auditors Parent company financial statements Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Independent Auditors Report to the members of In our opinion: BT Group plc the company the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited has We have audited the parent company financial statements of BT Group been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act plc for the year ended 31 March 2013 which comprise the BT Group plc 2006: and company balance sheet, the BT Group plc company reconciliation of the information given in the Report of the Directors for the financial movement in equity shareholders funds, the BT Group plc accounting year for which the parent company financial statements are policies and related information.
The financial reporting framework that prepared is consistent with the parent company financial has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United statements.
Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: set out on page 93, the directors are responsible for the preparation of adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express from branches not visited by us: or an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance the parent company financial statements and the part of the Report with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and on Directors Remuneration to be audited are not in agreement with Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing the accounting records and returns: or Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for not made: or the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part we have not received all the information and explanations we 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in require for our audit.
giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into Other matter whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior We have reported separately on the consolidated financial statements consent in writing.
of BT Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2013.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Paul Barkus Senior Statutory Auditor parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied for and on behalf of  LLP and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the London, United Kingdom financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non- 9 May 2013 financial information in the BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F for the year ended 31 March 2013 to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 March 2013: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
