Financial statements 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation Changes in accounting policies and Preparation of the financial statements standards adopted These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in The groups policy for the recognition of government grants was accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS changed from 1 April 2012.
Under the new policy, which is set out on Regulation and International Accounting Standards IAS and page 113, assets and operating costs are recognised net of government International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and related grants receivable.
interpretations, as adopted by the European Union.
The consolidated Before 1 April 2012 government grants were initially recognised as financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued by the deferred income.
Subsequent to initial recognition grants that International Accounting Standards Board.
The consolidated financial compensated the group for costs incurred were recognised in the statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
income statement within other operating income.
Grants that The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical compensated the group for the cost of an asset were recognised in the cost basis, except for certain financial and equity instruments that have income statement within other operating income on a straight line been measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are basis over the useful life of the related asset.
presented in Sterling, the functional currency of BT Group plc, the Net presentation is considered a more appropriate policy than the parent company.
previous gross presentation as it better presents the incremental costs to the business.
The new policy has been applied prospectively and Changes in presentation of the financial statements comparative financial information has not been restated as the impact The following changes have been made to the presentation of the of grants on prior period financial information is immaterial.
equity section of the groups balance sheet in the current year: The amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Own shares formerly Treasury shares balance is now presented as a issued by the IASB in June 2011 have been adopted early in these separate line item within the equity section of the groups balance consolidated financial statements.
The main change resulting from the sheet.
In previous years it was presented as part of Other reserves application of these amendments is to group items together within Capital redemption reserve is now included in Other reserves within other comprehensive income based on whether they are potentially equity in the groups balance sheet rather than as a separate item reclassiable to the income statement in future periods.
Tax associated within the equity section of the groups balance sheet.
with each group those that might be reclassied and those that will not be reclassied is shown separately.
The comparative information has also been re-presented accordingly.
Other than as set out above, no new or amended accounting standards In addition, following the Financial Reporting Councils objective of and interpretations were adopted in 2012 13. cutting clutter from financial statements, separate non-controlling interests disclosures have been removed from the groups consolidated financial statements and the related notes because they are immaterial: Presentation of specic items non-controlling interests represent profit for the year of 2m The groups income statement and segmental analysis separately 2011 12: 1m, 2010 11: 2m : total comprehensive income for the identify trading results before specic items.
Specic items are those year of 3m 2011 12: 2m, 2010 11: 2m : and total equity in the that in managements judgement need to be disclosed separately by balance sheet of 14m 2011 12: 11m equity.
virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
In determining whether an event or transaction is specic, management considers quantitative as As the changes summarised above only represent changes in well as qualitative factors such as the frequency or predictability of presentation or, in the case of non-controlling interests, are immaterial occurrence.
This is consistent with the way that financial performance is to the groups consolidated financial statements, a restated opening measured by management and reported to the Board and the balance sheet has not been provided.
This is because the changes do Operating Committee and assists in providing a meaningful analysis of not have any impact on the profit for the year, other comprehensive the trading results of the group.
The directors believe that presentation income loss for the year, assets and liabilities or total equity.
of the groups results in this way is relevant to an understanding of the groups financial performance, as specic items are identied by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
Furthermore, the group considers a columnar presentation to be appropriate, as it improves the clarity of the presentation and is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by management and reported to the Board and the Operating Committee.
Specic items may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Specic items include disposals of businesses and investments, regulatory settlements, historic insurance or litigation claims, business restructuring programmes, asset impairment charges, property rationalisation programmes, net interest on pensions and the settlement of multiple tax years in a single payment.
In 2008 09 BT Global Services contract and financial review charges were disclosed as a specic item by virtue of their size and nature.
The impact of subsequent changes to the contract and financial review charges from revisions in estimates and assumptions are included within trading results before specic items, and are separately disclosed if considered significant.
Specic items for the current and prior years are disclosed in note 9.
