Governance Governance 97 97 Annual General Meeting Shareholders and Annual Resolutions General Meeting We will ask our shareholders to vote on the Annual Report at the AGM and to vote separately on the Report on Directors Remuneration.
Relations with shareholders The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, as well as other As part of our policy to involve shareholders fully in the affairs of the senior executives, hold meetings with BTs institutional shareholders company, we give them the opportunity at the AGM to ask questions and prospective shareholders to discuss BTs strategy and financial about BTs activities.
We also give shareholders the opportunity to performance.
The Chairman met with major shareholders during the voteon every substantially different issue by proposing a separate year.
All non-executive directors, including the Senior Independent resolution for each issue.
Before the AGM we will count the proxy votes Director, have an invitation to attend investor meetings if they wish.
for and against each resolution, as well as votes withheld, and we will During the course of the year Patricia Hewitt, as Senior Independent make the results available at the meeting.
As at the 2012 AGM, we will Director and chair of the Remuneration Committee had a meeting with take votes on all matters at the 2013 AGM on a poll, except procedural several of BTs top institutional shareholders and bodies representing issues.
We will count every vote cast, whether in person or by proxy at institutional investors, to discuss remuneration issues and associated the meeting.
We will post the outcome of voting on the resolutions on governance.
We control contact with institutional shareholders and with our website as soon as possible after the meeting.
It is our policy for all financial analysts, brokers and the media through written guidelines to directors to attend the AGM if at all possible.
While, because of ill health ensure the protection of inside information that has not already been or other pressing reasons, this may not always be possible, in normal made generally available to the market.
circumstances this means that the chairs of the Audit & Risk, Nominating & Governance and Remuneration Committees are at the AGM and are During the year we surveyed 9,000 private shareholders selected at available to answer relevant questions.
All the directors attended the random to help us improve our engagement with them.
the surveys findings we have included more information on BTsstrategy in our shareholder communications.
We set out the resolutions to be proposed at the 2013 AGM on 17 July, together with explanatory notes, in the separate Summary financial We provide the directors with regular reports and other written briengs statement & notice of meeting 2013 which we send to all shareholders on shareholders and analysts views and the Company Secretary noties who have requested a copy.
We only send copies of this Annual Report directors of changes in the holdings of the principal shareholders.
to shareholders who request a copy.
We notify all shareholders of the We have established procedures to ensure the timely release of inside publication of these documents which we send out in the most costinformation and the publication of financial results and regulatory effective way.
We aim to give as much notice of our AGM as possible and financial statements.
A committee of senior executives, the Disclosure at least 21 clear days notice, as required by our Articles of Association.
Committee, which is chaired by the Company Secretary, also reviews all In practice, we send these documents to shareholders more than 20 significant announcements for accuracy and compliance requirements.
working days before the AGM.
We will also propose at the AGM resolutions to re-appoint Substantial shareholdings  LLP as BTs auditors and to authorise the At 3 May 2013 BT had received notication, under the Disclosure & directors to agree their remuneration.
Transparency Rules issued by the Financial Conduct Authority, in respect of the following holding of shares representing the percentage holding We will broadcast the presentation made by the Chairman of BTs total voting rights as shown: and the Chief Executive live on our website at www.
com btagm2013 and it will be available Shares % of total voting rights after the AGM Invesco Limited 778,912,816 9.88 In addition to the above, BlackRock Inc holds 382,736,261 shares Authority to purchase shares representing 4.86% of total voting rights and Legal & General The authority given at last years AGM of the company held on 11 July Investment hold 299,864,659 shares representing 3.81% of total 2012 for BT to purchase in the market 778m of its shares, representing voting rights.
No changes in these holdings have been notied to BT in 10% of the issued share capital, expires on 17 July 2013.
Shareholders 2012 13. will be asked to give a similar authority at the AGM.
During 2012 13, 87m shares of 5p each were purchased under this authority 1% of the share capital for a consideration of 189m, at an averageprice of 2.16 per share.
During 2012 13, 460m treasury shares were transferred to meet BTs obligations under our employee share plans.
At 9 May 2013 a total of 268m shares were retained as treasury shares.
All the shares were purchased in an on-market programme of buying back BT shares from May 2012 to March 2013.
In addition, the BT Group Employee Share Ownership Trust purchased 44m BT shares for a total consideration of 113m, all of which continued to be held in the Trust at 9 May 2013.
By order of the Board Dan Fitz Group General Counsel & Company Secretary 9 May 2013 Governance Governance 98
