Additional information 177 Information for shareholders Although BT believes that the expectations reected in these forwardCautionary statement regarding looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these forward-looking statements expectations will prove to have been correct.
Because these statements Certain statements in this annual report are forward-looking and are involve risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from made in reliance on the safe harbour provisions of the US Private those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements relate to Factors that could cause differences between actual results and those analyses and other information which are based on forecasts of future implied by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable.
These to: material adverse changes in economic conditions in the markets statements include, without limitation, those concerning: outlook: served by BT: future regulatory actions, decisions, conditions or revenue and revenue trends: EBITDA: free cash ow: net debt: credit requirements in BTs operating areas, including competition from ratings: our group-wide restructuring programme, cost base reduction others: selection by BT of the appropriate trading and marketing and restructuring costs: investment in and rollout of our bre network, models for its products and services: technological innovations, and its reach, innovations, increased speeds and speed availability: our including the cost of developing new products, networks and solutions broadband service and strategy: our investment in BT Sport: the BT and the need to increase expenditures for improving the quality of Pension Scheme recovery plan, operating charge, regular cash service: the anticipated benets and advantages of new technologies, contributions and interest expense: capital expenditure: effective tax products and services not being realised: developments in the rate: shareholder returns including growing dividends and share convergence of technologies: prolonged adverse weather conditions buyback: growth opportunities in networked IT services, the pay-TV resulting in a material increase in overtime, staff or other costs or services market, broadband and mobility: enhancing our TV service: impact on customer service: the timing of entry and profitability of BT growth of, and opportunities available in, the communications industry in certain markets: significant changes in market shares for BT or its and BTs positioning to take advantage of those opportunities: principal products and services: uctuations in foreign currency expectations regarding competition, market shares, prices and growth: exchange rates or interest rates: the underlying assumptions and expectations regarding the convergence of technologies: plans for the estimates made in respect of major customer contracts proving launch of new products and services: network performance and quality: unreliable: the aims of the group-wide and BT Global Services the impact of regulatory initiatives, decisions and outcomes on restructuring programme not being achieved: and general financial operations, including the regulation of the UK xed wholesale and retail market conditions affecting BTs performance and ability to raise businesses and the impact of the Undertakings to Ofcom under the finance.
Certain of these factors are discussed in more detail elsewhere Enterprise Act: BTs possible or assumed future results of operations in this annual report including, without limitation, in Our risks on and or those of its associates and joint ventures: investment plans: pages 23 to 27.
BT undertakes no obligation to update any forwardadequacy of capital: nancing plans and renancing requirements: looking statements whether as a result of new information, future demand for and access to broadband and the promotion of broadband events or otherwise.
by third-party service providers: and those preceded by, followed by, or that include the words aims, believes, expects, anticipates, intends, will, should or similar expressions.
Additional information Additional information 178 Stock exchange listings The principal listing of BT Groups ordinary shares is on the London Stock Exchange.
Trading on the London Stock Exchange is under the symbol BT.
A. American Depositary Shares ADSs, each representing 10 ordinary shares, have been issued by JPMorgan Chase & Co, as Depositary for the American Depositary Receipts ADRs evidencing the ADSs, and are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Trading on the New York Stock Exchange is under the symbol BT.
Fluctuations in the exchange rate between Sterling and the US Dollar affect the US Dollar equivalent of the Sterling price of the companys ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange and, as a result, are likely to affect the market price of the ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange.
Background BT Group plc is a public limited company registered in England and Wales and listed on the London and New York Stock Exchanges.
It was incorporated in England and Wales on 30 March 2001 as Newgate Telecommunications Limited with the registered number 4190816.
Its registered ofce address is 81 Newgate Street, London EC1A 7AJ.
The company changed its name to BT Group plc on 11 September 2001.
Following the demerger of O2 in November 2001, the continuing activities of BT were transferred to BT Group plc.
British Telecommunications plc is a wholly-owned subsidiary of BT Group plc and encompasses virtually all the businesses and assets of the BT group.
The successor to the statutory corporation British Telecommunications, it was incorporated in England and Wales as a public limited company, wholly owned by the Government, as a result of the Telecommunications Act 1984.
Between November 1984 and July 1993, the Government sold all of its shareholding in British Telecommunications plc in three public offerings.
b Under the BT Group Employee Share Investment Plan, 78.7m shares were held in trust on behalf of 51,341 participants who were beneficially entitled to the shares.
267.4m shares were held in the corporate nominee BT Group EasyShare on behalf of 90,789 beneficial owners.
c 133.4m shares were represented by ADSs.
An analysis by size of holding is not available for this holding.
d 271m shares were held as treasury shares.
e 10.88% of the shares were in 968,889 individual holdings, of which 67,800 were joint holdings, and 89.12% of the shares were in 12,723 institutional holdings.
As far as the company is aware, the company is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation or by the Government or any other foreign government or by any other natural or legal person severally or jointly.
There are no arrangements known to the company, the operation of which may at a subsequent date result in a change in control of the company.
The companys major shareholders do not have different voting rights to those of other shareholders.
At 3 May 2013, there were 8,151,227,029 ordinary shares outstanding, including 268,569,007 shares held as treasury shares.
At the same date, approximately 12.76m ADSs equivalent to 127.6m ordinary shares, or approximately 1.57% of the total number of ordinary shares outstanding on that date were outstanding and were held by 1,825 record holders of ADRs.
At 31 March 2013, there were 3,743 shareholders with a US address on the register of shareholders who in total hold 0.03% of the ordinary shares of the company.
Additional information Additional information 180 Dividends A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2012 was paid on 3 September 2012 to shareholders on the register on 10 August 2012, and an interim dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2013 was paid on 4 February 2013 to shareholders on the register on 28 December 2012.
The final proposed dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2013, if approved by shareholders, will be paid on 2 September 2013 to shareholders on the register on 9 August 2013.
The dividends paid or payable on BT shares and ADSs for the last five financial years are shown in the following table.
The dividends on the ordinary shares exclude the associated tax credit.
The amounts shown are not those that were actually paid to holders of ADSs.
For the tax treatment of dividends paid, see Taxation of dividends on page 187.
Dividends have been translated from Sterling into US Dollars using exchange rates prevailing on the date the ordinary dividends were paid.
The US Dollar amount of the final dividend of 65 pence per ADS to be paid to holders of ADSs will be based on the exchange rate in effect on 2 September 2013, the date of payment to holders of ordinary shares.
As dividends paid by the company are in Sterling, exchange rate uctuations will affect the US Dollar amounts received by holders of ADSs on conversion by the Depositary of such cash dividends.
Dividend mandate Any shareholder wishing dividends to be paid directly into a bank or building society account should contact the Shareholder Helpline see page 190, or go to the Shareholder information page of our website at www.
com investorcentre Dividends paid in this way will be paid through the Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS.
Own share purchases by BT from 12 July 2012 to 31 March 2013 were made in accordance with a resolution passed at the AGM on 11 July 2012. b Authority was given to purchase up to 776 million shares on 13 July 2011 and 778 million shares on 11 July 2012.
These authorities expire at the close of the following AGM.
A total of 131m own shares were purchased during 2012 13.
Of these, 87m shares were purchased under the authority given at last years AGM, for a consideration of 189m, and 44m shares were purchased by the BT Group Employee Share Ownership Trust for a total consideration of 113m.
Additional information 181 Dividend investment plan Under the Dividend investment plan, cash from participants dividends is used to buy further BT shares in the market.
Shareholders could elect to receive additional shares in lieu of a cash dividend for the following dividends: Price per share Date paid pence 2008 09 interim 9 February 2009 107.04 2008 09 final 7 September 2009 133.34 2009 10 interim 8 February 2010 131.67 2009 10 final 6 September 2010 140.41 2010 11 interim 7 February 2011 185.89 2010 11 final 5 September 2011 164.64 2011 12 interim 6 February 2012 216.39 2011 12 final 3 September 2012 223.15 2012 13 interim 4 February 2013 265.01 Global Invest Direct Details of the direct purchase plan run by the ADR Depositary, JPMorgan Chase & Co, Global Invest Direct, including reinvestment of dividends, are available from JPMorgan Chase & Co on 1 800 428 4237 toll free within the US, or on written request to the ADR Depositary.
Total shareholder return TSR is the measure of the returns that a company has generated for its shareholders, reecting share price movements and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
BTs TSR for 2012 13 was positive 27.5%, compared with the FTSE100 TSR which was positive 15.4% and the FTSEurorst 300 Telco Index TSR which was positive 1.9%.
BTs TSR improvement in 2012 13 is mainly due to the increase in the share price during 2012 13, from a closing price of 226.4p on 31 March 2012.
Over the last five financial years BTs TSR was positive 64.8%, compared with the FTSE100 TSR of positive 35.7% and the FTSEurorst 300 Telco Index TSR of positive 12.7%.
BT's TSR performance vs the FTSE100 and FTSEurorst 300 Telco Index 31 March 2008 100 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 2007 08 2008 09 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 BT FTSE 100 FTSEurorst 300 Telco Index Source: Datastream The graph shows the relative TSR performance of BT, the FTSE100 and the FTSEurorst 300 Telco Index over the past five years.
Additional information Additional information 182 Results announcements Expected announcements of results: a Results for the 2013 14 financial year Date 1st quarter 25 July 2013 2nd quarter and half year November 2013 3rd quarter and nine months February 2014 4th quarter and full year May 2014 Annual Report 2014 published May 2014 a Dates may be subject to change.
ShareGift The charity ShareGift specialises in accepting small nu mbers of shares as donations.
Further information about ShareGift may be obtained by telephoning 020 7930 3737 or from www.
org or alternatively, from the Shareholder Helpline see page 190.
Exchange rates BT publishes its consolidated financial statements expressed in Sterling.
The following tables provide certain information concerning the exchange rates between Sterling and US Dollars based on the noon buying rate in New York City for cable transfers in Sterling as certied for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York the Noon Buying Rate.
Additional information 183 Articles of Association Articles The following is a summary of the principal provisions of BTs Articles, a copy of which has been led with the Registrar of Companies.
A holder of shares and a shareholder is, in either case, the person entered on the companys register of members as the holder of the relevant shares.
Shareholders can choose whether their shares are to be evidenced by share certicates i. e. in certicated form or held in electronic i. e. uncerticated form in CREST the electronic settlement system in the UK.
BT adopted new Articles of Association with effect from October 2009, largely to take account of changes in UK company law brought about by the Companies Act 2006 2006 Act.
Under that Act, the Memorandum of Association serves a more limited role as historical evidence of the formation of the company.
Since October 2009, the provisions in relation to objects in BTs Memorandum are deemed to form part of BTs Articles, and have been deleted from those Articles because of shareholders passing a resolution to this effect at the AGM.
Under the 2006 Act, BTs objects are unrestricted.
a Voting rights Subject to the restrictions described below, on a show of hands, every shareholder present in person or by proxy at any general meeting has one vote and, on a poll, every shareholder present in person or by proxy has one vote for each share which they hold.
Voting at any meeting of shareholders is by a show of hands unless a poll is demanded by the chairman of the meeting or by at least five shareholders at the meeting who are entitled to vote or their proxies, or by one or more shareholders at the meeting who are entitled to vote or their proxies and who have, between them, at least 10% of the total votes of all shareholders who have the right to vote at the meeting.
No person is, unless the Board decide otherwise, entitled to attend or vote at any general meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder if they or any person appearing to be interested in those shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public companies the power to require information with respect to interests in their voting shares and they or any interested person has failed to supply to the company the information requested within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
These restrictions end seven days after the earlier of the date the shareholder complies with the request satisfactorily or the company receives notice that there has been an approved transfer of the shares.
b Variation of rights Whenever the share capital of the company is split into different classes of shares, the special rights attached to any of those classes can be varied or withdrawn either: i with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class: or ii with the consent in writing of the holders of at least 75% in nominal value of the issued shares of that class.
At any separate meeting, the necessary quorum is two persons holding or representing by proxy not less than one-third in nominal amount of the issued shares of the class in question but at any adjourned meeting, any person holding shares of the class or his proxy is a quorum.
The company can issue new shares and attach any rights and restrictions to them, as long as this is not restricted by special rights previously given to holders of any existing shares.
Subject to this, the rights of new shares can take priority over the rights of existing shares, or existing shares can take priority over them, or the new shares and the existing shares can rank equally.
c Changes in capital The company may by ordinary resolution: i divide all or any of its share capital into shares with a smaller nominal value: and ii consolidate and divide all or part of its share capital into shares of a larger nominal value.
The company may also: i buy back its own shares: and ii by special resolution reduce its share capital, any capital redemption reserve and any share premium account.
d Dividends The companys shareholders can declare dividends by passing an ordinary resolution provided that no dividend can exceed the amount recommended by the directors.
Dividends must be paid out of profits available for distribution.
If the directors consider that the profits of the company justify such payments, they can pay interim dividends on any class of shares of the amounts and on the dates and for the periods they decide.
Fixed dividends will be paid on any class of shares on the dates stated for the payments of those dividends.
The directors can offer ordinary shareholders the right to choose to receive new ordinary shares, which are credited as fully paid, instead of some or all of their cash dividend.
Before they can do this, the companys shareholders must have passed an ordinary resolution authorising the directors to make this offer.
Any dividend which has not been claimed for ten years after it was declared or became due for payment will be forfeited and will belong to the company.
Additional information Additional information 184 e Distribution of assets on winding up If the company is wound up whether the liquidation is voluntary, under supervision of the court or by the court the liquidator can, with the authority of a special resolution passed by the shareholders, divide among the shareholders all or any part of the assets of the company.
This applies whether the assets consist of property of one kind or different kinds.
For this purpose, the liquidator can place whatever value the liquidator considers fair on any property and decide how the division is carried out between shareholders or different groups of shareholders.
The liquidator can also, with the same authority, transfer any assets to trustees upon any trusts for the benefit of shareholders which the liquidator decides.
The liquidation of the company can then be nalised and the company dissolved.
No past or present shareholder can be compelled to accept any shares or other property under the Articles which could give that shareholder a liability.
f Transfer of shares Certicated shares of the company may be transferred in writing either by an instrument of transfer in the usual standard form or in another form approved by the Board.
The transfer form must be signed or made effective by or on behalf of the person making the transfer.
The person making the transfer will be treated as continuing to be the holder of the shares transferred until the name of the person to whom the shares are being transferred is entered in the register of members of the company.
The Board may refuse to register any transfer of any share held in certicated form: i which is in favour of more than four joint holders: or ii unless the transfer form to be registered is properly stamped to show payment of any applicable stamp duty and delivered to the companys registered ofce or any other place the Board decide.
The transfer must have with it: the share certicate for the shares to be transferred: any other evidence which the Board ask for to prove that the person wanting to make the transfer is entitled to do this: and if the transfer form is executed by another person on behalf of the person making the transfer, evidence of the authority of that person to do so.
Transfers of uncerticated shares must be carried out using a relevant system as dened in the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001 the Regulations.
The Board can refuse to register a transfer of an uncerticated share in the circumstances stated in the Regulations.
If the Board decide not to register a transfer of a share, the Board must notify the person to whom that share was to be transferred giving reasons for its decision.
This must be done as soon as possible and no later than two months after the company receives the transfer or instruction from the operator of the relevant system.
g Untraced shareholders BT may sell any shares after advertising its intention and waiting for three months if the shares have been in issue for at least ten years, during that period at least three dividends have become payable on them and have not been cashed and BT has not heard from the shareholder or any person entitled to the dividends by transmission.
The net sale proceeds belong to BT, but it must pay those proceeds to the former shareholder or the person entitled to them by transmission if that shareholder, or that other person, asks for them.
h General meetings of shareholders Every year the company must hold an annual general meeting.
The Board can call a general meeting at any time and, under general law, must call one on a shareholders requisition.
At least 21 clear days written notice must be given for every annual general meeting.
For every other general meeting, at least 14 clear days written notice must be given.
The Board can specify in the notice of meeting a time by which a person must be entered on the register of shareholders in order to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting.
The time specified must not be more than 48 hours before the time xed for the meeting.
i Limitations on rights of non-resident or foreign shareholders The only limitation imposed by the Articles on the rights of non-resident or foreign shareholders is that a shareholder whose registered address is outside the UK and who wishes to receive notices of meetings of shareholders or documents from BT must give the company an address within the UK to which they may be sent.
j Directors Directors remuneration Excluding remuneration referred to below, each director will be paid such fee for his services as the Board decide, not exceeding 65,000 a year and increasing by the percentage increase of the retail prices index as dened by section 833 2 Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for any 12-month period beginning 1 April 1999 or an anniversary of that date.
The company may by ordinary resolution decide on a higher sum.
This resolution can increase the fee paid to all or any directors either permanently or for a particular period.
The directors may be paid their expenses properly incurred in connection with the business of the company.
The Board can award extra fees to a director who: holds an executive position: acts as chairman or deputy chairman: serves on a Board committee at the request of the Board: or performs any other services which the Board consider extend beyond the ordinary duties of a director.
Additional information 185 The directors may grant pensions or other benets to, among others, any director or former director or persons connected with them.
However, BT can only provide these benets to any director or former director who has not been an employee or held any other ofce or executive position in the company or any of its subsidiary undertakings, or to relations or dependants of, or people connected to, those directors or former directors, if the shareholders approve this by passing an ordinary resolution.
Directors votes A director need not be a shareholder, but a director who is not a shareholder can still attend and speak at shareholders meetings.
Unless the Articles say otherwise, a director cannot vote on a resolution about a contract in which the director has an interest this will also apply to interests of a person connected with the director.
If the legislation allows, a director can vote and be counted in the quorum on a resolution concerning a contract: i in which the director has an interest of which the director is not aware: or which cannot reasonably be regarded as likely to give rise to a conict of interest: ii in which the director has an interest only because the director is a holder of shares, debentures or other securities of BT, or by reason of any other interest in or through BT: iii which involves: the giving of any security, guarantee or indemnity to the director or any other person for money lent or obligations incurred by the director or by any other person at the request of or for the benefit of BT or the benefit of any of its subsidiary undertakings: or a debt or other obligation which is owed by BT or any of its subsidiary undertakings to that other person if the director has taken responsibility for all or any part of that debt or obligation by giving a guarantee, security or indemnity: iv where BT or any of its subsidiary undertakings is offering any shares, debentures or other securities for subscription or purchase to which the director is or may be entitled to participate as a holder of BT securities: or where the director will be involved in the underwriting or sub-underwriting: v relating to any other company in which the director has an interest, directly or indirectly including holding a position in that company or is a shareholder, creditor, employee or otherwise involved in that company.
These rights do not apply if the director owns 1% or more of that company or of the voting rights in that company: vi relating to an arrangement for the benefit of BT employees or former BT employees or any of BTs subsidiary undertakings which only gives the directors the same benets that are generally given to the employees or former employees to whom the arrangement relates: vii relating to BT buying or renewing insurance for any liability for the benefit of directors or for the benefit of persons who include directors: viii relating to the giving of indemnities in favour of directors: ix relating to the funding of expenditure by any director or directors: on defending criminal, civil or regulatory proceedings or actions against the director or the directors: in connection with an application to the court for relief: or on defending the director or the directors in any regulatory investigations: or which enables any director or directors to avoid incurring expenditure as described in this paragraph: and x in which the directors interest, or the interest of directors generally, has been authorised by an ordinary resolution.
Subject to the relevant legislation, the shareholders can by passing an ordinary resolution ratify any particular contract carried out in breach of those provisions.
Directors appointment and retirement Under BTs Articles there must be at least two directors, who manage the business of the company.
The shareholders can vary this minimum and or decide a maximum by ordinary resolution.
The Board and the shareholders by ordinary resolution may appoint a person who is willing to be elected as a director, either to ll a vacancy or as an additional director.
At every annual general meeting, any director who was elected or last re-elected a director at or before the annual general meeting held in the third year before the current year, must retire by rotation.
Any director appointed by the directors automatically retires at the next following annual general meeting.
A retiring director is eligible for re-election.
In addition to any power of removal under the 2006 Act, the shareholders can pass an ordinary resolution to remove a director, even though his or her time in ofce has not ended.
They can elect a person to replace that director subject to the Articles, by passing an ordinary resolution.
A person so appointed is subject to retirement by rotation when the director replaced would have been due to retire.
Additional information Additional information 186 Directors borrowing powers To the extent that the legislation and the Articles allow, the Board can exercise all the powers of the company to borrow money, to mortgage or charge its business, property and assets present and future and to issue debentures and other securities, and give security either outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of the company or another person.
The Board must limit the borrowings of the company and exercise all the companys voting and other rights or powers of control exercisable by the company in relation to its subsidiary undertakings so as to ensure that the aggregate amount of all borrowings by the group outstanding, net of amounts borrowed intra-group among other things, at any time does not exceed 35bn.
These borrowing powers may only be varied by amending the Articles.
k Sinking fund, liability to further calls and change of control BTs shares are not subject to any sinking fund provision under the Articles or as a matter of the laws of England and Wales.
No shareholder is currently liable to make additional contributions of capital in respect of BTs ordinary shares in the future.
There are no provisions in the Articles or of corporate legislation in England and Wales that would delay, defer or prevent a change of control.
l Disclosure of interests in shares Under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules there is a statutory obligation on a person who acquires or ceases to have a notiable interest in the relevant share capital of a public company like BT to notify the company of that fact.
These Rules also deal with the disclosure by persons of interests in shares or debentures of companies in which they are directors and certain associated companies.
Under section 793 of the 2006 Act referred to in a above, BT may ascertain the persons who are or have within the last three years been interested in its shares and the nature of those interests.
The UK City Code on Takeovers and Mergers also imposes strict disclosure requirements with regard to dealings in the securities of an offeror or offeree company on all parties to a takeover and also on their respective associates during the course of an offer period.
Material contracts Excluding contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business, no contracts have been entered into in the two years preceding the date of this document by BT or another member of the group which are, or may be, material to the group or contain a provision under which a member of the group has an obligation or entitlement which is, or may be, material to BT or such other member of the group.
Taxation US Holders This is a summary only of the principal US federal income tax and UK tax consequences of the ownership and disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs by US Holders as dened below who hold their ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets.
It does not address all aspects of US federal income taxation and does not address aspects that may be relevant to persons who are subject to special provisions of US federal income tax law, including US expatriates, insurance companies, tax-exempt organisations, banks, regulated investment companies, financial institutions, securities brokerdealers, traders in securities who elect a mark-to-market method of accounting, persons subject to alternative minimum tax, investors that directly, indirectly or by attribution own 10% or more of the outstanding share capital or voting power of BT, persons holding their ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle, hedging transaction or conversion transaction, persons who acquired their ordinary shares or ADSs pursuant to the exercise of options or otherwise as compensation, or persons whose functional currency is not the US Dollar, amongst others.
Those holders may be subject to US federal income tax consequences different from those set forth below.
For the purposes of this summary, a US Holder is a beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that, for US federal income tax purposes, is: a citizen or individual resident of the United States: a corporation or other entity taxable as a corporation for US federal income tax purposes created or organised in or under the laws of the United States or any political subdivision thereof: an estate the income of which is subject to US federal income taxation regardless of its sources, or a trust if a US court can exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust and one or more US persons are authorised to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
If a partnership holds ordinary shares or ADSs, the US tax treatment of a partner generally will depend upon the status of the partner and the activities of the partnership.
A partner in a partnership that holds ordinary shares or ADSs is urged to consult its own tax advisor regarding the specic tax consequences of owning and disposing of the ordinary shares or ADSs.
In particular, this summary is based on i current UK tax law and the practice of Her Majestys Revenue & Customs HMRC and US law and US Internal Revenue Service IRS practice, including the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, existing and proposed Treasury regulations, rulings, judicial decisions and administrative practice, all as currently in effect and available, ii the United KingdomUnited States Convention relating to estate and gift taxes, and iii the United KingdomUnited States Tax Convention that entered into force on 31 March 2003 and the protocol thereto the Convention, all as in effect on the date of this Annual Report, all of which are subject to change or changes in interpretation, possibly with retroactive effect.
US Holders should consult their own tax advisors as to the applicability of the Convention and the consequences under UK, US federal, state and local, and other laws, of the ownership and disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs.
Additional information 187 Taxation of dividends Under current UK tax law, BT will not be required to withhold tax at source from dividend payments it makes.
Unless a US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs is resident in or ordinarily resident for UK tax purposes in the UK or unless a US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency, or, in the case of a company, a permanent establishment in the UK, the holder should not be liable for UK tax on dividends received in respect of ordinary shares and or ADSs.
For US federal income tax purposes, a distribution will be treated as ordinary dividend income.
The amount of the distribution includible in gross income of a US Holder will be the US Dollar value of the distribution calculated by reference to the spot rate in effect on the date the distribution is actually or constructively received by a US Holder of ordinary shares, or by the Depositary, in the case of ADSs.
A US Holder who converts Sterling into US Dollars on the date of receipt generally should not recognise any exchange gain or loss.
A US Holder who does not convert Sterling into US Dollars on the date of receipt generally will have a tax basis in Sterling equal to their US Dollar value on such date.
Foreign currency gain or loss, if any, recognised by the US Holder on a subsequent conversion or other disposition of Sterling generally will be US source ordinary income or loss.
Dividends paid by BT to a US Holder will not be eligible for the US dividends received deduction that may otherwise be available to corporate shareholders.
For purposes of calculating the foreign tax credit limitation, dividends paid on the ordinary shares or ADSs will be treated as income from sources outside the US and generally will constitute passive income.
The rules relating to the determination of the foreign tax credit are very complex.
US Holders who do not elect to claim a credit with respect to any foreign taxes paid in a given taxable year may instead claim a deduction for foreign taxes paid.
A deduction does not reduce US federal income tax on a Dollar for Dollar basis like a tax credit.
The deduction, however, is not subject to the limitations applicable to foreign credits.
There will be no right to any UK tax credit or to any payment from HMRC in respect of any tax credit on dividends paid on ordinary shares or ADSs.
Certain US Holders including individuals are eligible for reduced rates of US federal income tax currently at a maximum rate of 15% in respect of qualied dividend income received in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2013.
For this purpose, qualied dividend income generally includes dividends paid by a non-US corporation if, among other things, the US Holders meet certain minimum holding periods and the non-US corporation satisfies certain requirements, including that either i the shares or ADSs with respect to which the dividend has been paid are readily tradeable on an established securities market in the US, or ii the non-US corporation is eligible for the benets of a comprehensive US income tax treaty such as the Convention which provides for the exchange of information.
BT currently believes that dividends paid with respect to its ordinary shares and ADSs should constitute qualied dividend income for US federal income tax purposes.
Each individual US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs is urged to consult his own tax advisor regarding the availability to him of the reduced dividend tax rate in light of his own particular situation and regarding the computations of his foreign tax credit limitation with respect to any qualied dividend income paid by BT to him, as applicable.
Taxation of capital gains Unless a US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs is resident in or ordinarily resident for UK tax purposes in the UK or unless a US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs carries on a trade, profession, or vocation in the UK through a branch, agency, or in the case of a company, a permanent establishment in the UK, and the ordinary shares and or ADSs have been used, held, or acquired for the purposes of that trade, profession or vocation the holder should not be liable for UK tax on capital gains on a disposal of ordinary shares and or ADSs.
A US Holder who is an individual and who has ceased to be resident or ordinarily resident for tax purposes in the UK on or after 17 March 1998 or who falls to be regarded as resident outside the UK for the purposes of any double tax treaty Treaty non-resident on or after 16 March 2005 and continues to not be resident or ordinarily resident in the UK or continues to be Treaty non-resident for a period of less than five years of assessment and who disposes of his ordinary shares or ADSs during that period may also be liable on his return to the UK to UK tax on capital gains, subject to any available exemption or relief, even though he is not resident or ordinarily resident in the UK or is Treaty non-resident at the time of disposal.
For US federal income tax purposes, a US Holder generally will recognise capital gain or loss on the sale, exchange or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs in an amount equal to the difference between the US Dollar value of the amount realised on the disposition and the US Holders adjusted tax basis determined in US Dollars in the ordinary shares or ADSs.
Such gain or loss generally will be US source gain or loss, and will be treated as long-term capital gain or loss if the ordinary shares have been held for more than one year at the time of disposition.
Long-term capital gains recognised by an individual US Holder generally are subject to US federal income tax at preferential rates.
The deductibility of capital losses is subject to significant limitations.
A US Holders tax basis in an ordinary share will generally be its US Dollar cost.
The US Dollar cost of an ordinary share purchased with foreign currency will generally be the US Dollar value of the purchase price on the date of purchase, or the settlement date for the purchase, in the case of ordinary shares traded on an established securities market, as dened in the applicable Treasury Regulations, that are purchased by a cash basis US Holder or an accrual basis US Holder that so elects.
Such an election by an accrual basis US Holder must be applied consistently from year to year and cannot be revoked without the consent of the IRS.
The amount realised on a sale or other disposition of ordinary shares for an amount in foreign currency will be the US Dollar value of this amount on the date of sale or disposition.
On the settlement date, the US Holder will recognise US source foreign currency gain or loss taxable as ordinary income or loss equal to the difference if any between the US Dollar value of the amount received based on the exchange rates in effect on the date of sale or other disposition and the settlement date.
However, in the case of ordinary shares traded on an established securities market that are sold by a cash basis US Holder or an accrual basis US Holder that so elects, the amount realised will be based on the exchange rate in effect on the settlement date for the sale, and no exchange gain or loss will be recognised at that time.
Additional information Additional information 188 Passive foreign investment company status A non-US corporation will be classied as a passive foreign investment company for US federal income tax purposes a PFIC for any taxable year if at least 75% of its gross income consists of passive income or at least 50% of the average value of its assets consist of assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income.
BT currently believes that it did not qualify as a PFIC for the tax year ended 31 March 2013.
If BT were to become a PFIC for any tax year, US Holders would suffer adverse tax consequences.
These consequences may include having gains realised on the disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs treated as ordinary income rather than capital gains and being subject to punitive interest charges on certain dividends and on the proceeds of the sale or other disposition of the ordinary shares or ADSs.
Furthermore, dividends paid by BT would not be qualied dividend income which may be eligible for reduced rates of taxation as described above.
US Holders should consult their own tax advisors regarding the potential application of the PFIC rules to BT.
US information reporting and backup withholding Dividends paid on and proceeds received from the sale, exchange or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs may be subject to information reporting to the IRS and backup withholding at a current rate of 28% which rate may be subject to change.
Certain exempt recipients such as corporations are not subject to these information reporting requirements.
Backup withholding will not apply, however, to a US Holder who provides a correct taxpayer identication number or certicate of foreign status and makes any other required certication or who is otherwise exempt.
Persons that are US persons for US federal income tax purposes who are required to establish their exempt status generally must furnish IRS Form W-9 Request for Taxpayer Identication Number and Certication.
Holders that are not US persons for US federal income tax purposes generally will not be subject to US information reporting or backup withholding.
However, such holders may be required to provide certication of non-US status in connection with payments received in the US or through certain US-related financial intermediaries.
Backup withholding is not an additional tax.
Amounts withheld as backup withholding may be credited against a holders US federal income tax liability.
A holder may obtain a refund of any excess amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules by timely ling the appropriate claim for refund with the IRS and furnishing any required information.
UK stamp duty A transfer of or an agreement to transfer an ordinary share will generally be subject to UK stamp duty or UK stamp duty reserve tax SDRT at 0.5% of the amount or value of any consideration provided rounded up in the case of stamp duty to the nearest 5.
SDRT is generally the liability of the purchaser.
It is customarily also the purchaser who pays UK stamp duty.
A transfer of an ordinary share to, or to a nominee for, a person whose business is or includes the provision of clearance services or to, or to a nominee or agent of, a person whose business is or includes issuing depositary receipts gives rise to a 1.5% charge to stamp duty or SDRT of either the amount of the consideration provided or the value of the share issued rounded up in the case of stamp duty to the nearest 5.
No UK stamp duty will be payable on the transfer of an ADS assuming it is not registered in the UK, provided that the transfer documents are executed and always retained outside the UK.
Transfers of ordinary shares into CREST will generally not be subject to stamp duty or SDRT unless such a transfer is made for a consideration in money or moneys worth, in which case a liability to SDRT will arise, usually at the rate of 0.5% of the value of the consideration.
Paperless transfers of ordinary shares within CREST are generally liable to SDRT at the rate of 0.5% of the value of the consideration.
CREST is obliged to collect SDRT from the purchaser of the shares on relevant transactions settled within the system.
UK inheritance and gift taxes in connection with ordinary shares and or ADSs The rules and scope of domicile are complex and action should not be taken without advice specic to the individuals circumstances.
A lifetime gift or a transfer on death of ordinary shares and or ADSs by an individual holder, who is US domiciled for the purposes of the UK US Estate and Gift Tax Convention and who is not a UK national as dened in the Convention will not generally be subject to UK inheritance tax if the gift is subject to US federal gift or US estate tax unless the tax is not paid.
Further note on certain activities During 2012 13, certain of the groups non-US subsidiaries or other non-US entities conducted limited activities in, or with persons from, certain countries identied by the US Department of State as State Sponsors of Terrorism or otherwise subject to US sanctions.
These activities, which generally relate to the provision of communications services to embassies and diplomatic missions of US-allied governments, other CPs, news organisations, multinational corporations and other customers that require global communications connectivity, are insignicant to the groups financial condition and results of operations.
Under Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, which added Section 13 r to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, we are required to disclose whether BT or any of its afliates knowingly engaged in certain activities, transactions or dealings relating to Iran or certain designated individuals or entities.
Disclosure is required even when the activities were conducted outside the US by non-US entities and even when they were conducted in compliance with applicable law.
Our disclosures for 2012 13 are below.
HM Treasury approval was granted on 31 October 2012 for authorisation to receive 75,000 euros from Telecommunication Infrastructure Company TIC, in Iran.
The payment was for receiving incoming UK telecommunications tariff from Iran BT is paid on a per minute basis for terminating calls.
Between July 2007 and October 2012 a BT subsidiary, Communications Global Network Services CGNS, acted as billing agent for a consortium of telecommunications companies, of which CGNS was a member, in respect of a subsea cable contract.
As billing agent, CGNS invoiced telecommunications companies worldwide, collecting funds and dispersing these to the consortium members and, during that time, received indirect payments on behalf of TIC.
BT entered into a Framework Agreement with Rafsanjan Industrial Complex RIC for business consultancy services in May 2010 and provided an initial consultancy engagement under phase 1 of the agreement.
In February 2011, phase 2 was agreed with RIC however BT stopped work in December 2011 due to the geopolitical situation.
RIC made an advance payment to BT for 384,120 to carry out the phase 2 work.
We are exploring whether the amount can be refunded.
Additional information 189 Limitations affecting security holders There are no government laws, decrees, regulations, or other UK legislation which have a material effect on the import or export of capital, including the availability of cash and cash equivalents for use by the company except as otherwise described in Taxation US Holders.
There are no limitations under UK law restricting the right of non-residents to hold or to vote shares in the company.
Documents on display All reports and other information that BT les with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC may be inspected at the SECs public reference facilities at Room 1580, 100 F Street, NE Washington, DC, 20549, US.
These reports may be accessed via the SECs website at www.
gov Publications BT produces a series of reports on the companys financial, compliance, and social and environmental performance.
Most of these reports as well as the EAB Annual Report on BTs compliance with the Undertakings are available to shareholders on request and can be accessed at www.
More detailed disclosures on BTs implementation of social, ethical and environmental policies and procedures are available online through our independently veried sustainability report at www.
com betterfuture Document Publication date Summary financial statement & notice of meeting May Annual Report & Form 20-F May Better Future: our annual sustainability report May EAB Annual Report May Quarterly results releases July, November, February and May Current Cost Financial Statements July The Way We Work, a statement of business practice For printed copies, when available, contact the Shareholder Helpline on Freefone 0808 100 4141 or 190 contact our Registrars in the UK, at the address on page Electronic communication Shareholders can choose to receive their shareholder documents electronically rather than by post.
Shareholders may elect to receive documents in this way by going to www.
com signup and following the 190 online instructions, or by calling the Shareholder Helpline.
You can nd the details on page Shareholder communication BT is committed to communicating openly with each of its stakeholder audiences in the manner most appropriate to their requirements.
All investors can visit our website at www.
com investorcentre for more information about BT.
There are direct links from this page to sites providing information particularly tailored for shareholders, institutional investors, financial analysts, industry analysts and journalists.
An online version of this document is available at www.
