Critical accounting estimates and key Useful lives for property, plant and equipment judgements and software The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires The plant and equipment in our networks is long lived with cables and the use of accounting estimates and assumptions.
It also requires switching equipment operating for over 10 years and underground management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the ducts being used for decades.
We also develop software for use in IT groups accounting policies.
We continually evaluate our estimates, systems and platforms that supports the products and services provided assumptions and judgements based on available information and to our customers and that is also used within the group.
As the use of estimates is inherent in financial reporting, depreciation and amortisation charge is sensitive to the estimated actual results could differ from these estimates.
Management has service lives allocated to each type of asset.
Asset lives are assessed discussed its critical accounting estimates and associated disclosures annually and changed when necessary to reect current thinking on the with the Audit & Risk Committee.
The areas involving a higher degree remaining lives in light of technological change, network investment of judgement or complexity are described below.
plans including the groups bre rollout programme, prospective economic utilisation and physical condition of the assets concerned.
Changes to the service lives of assets implemented from 1 April 2012 Long-term customer contracts had no significant impact in aggregate on the results for the year ended Long-term customer contracts can extend over a number of financial 31 March 2013. years.
During the contractual period recognition of costs and profits may be impacted by estimates of the ultimate profitability of each The carrying values of software, property, plant and equipment are contract.
If, at any time, these estimates indicate that any contract will disclosed in notes 13 and 14.
The useful lives applied to the principal be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the contract is recognised categories of assets are disclosed on page 111. immediately.
If these estimates indicate that any contract will be less profitable than previously forecast, contract assets may have to be Provisions and contingent liabilities written down to the extent they are no longer considered to be fully As disclosed in note 18, the groups provisions principally relate to recoverable.
The group performs ongoing profitability reviews of its obligations arising from property rationalisation programmes, contracts in order to determine whether the latest estimates are restructuring programmes, claims, litigation and regulatory risks.
our property rationalisation programmes we have identied a number Key factors reviewed include: of surplus properties.
Although efforts are being made to sub-let this space, this is not always possible.
Estimates have been made of the cost Transaction volumes or other inputs affecting future revenues which of vacant possession and of any shortfall arising from any sub-lease can vary depending on customer requirements, plans, market income being lower than the lease costs.
Any such shortfall is position and other factors such as general economic conditions recognised as a provision.
Our ability to achieve key contract milestones connected with the transition, development, transformation and deployment phases for In respect of claims, litigation and regulatory risks, the group provides customer contracts for anticipated costs where an outow of resources is considered The status of commercial relations with customers and the probable and a reasonable estimate can be made of the likely outcome.
implication for future revenue and cost projections The prices at which certain services are charged are regulated and may Our estimates of future staff and third party costs and the degree to be subject to retrospective adjustment by regulators.
Estimates are which cost savings and efficiencies are deliverable.
used in assessing the likely value of the regulatory risk.
For all risks, the ultimate liability may vary from the amounts provided and will be The carrying value of assets comprising the costs of the initial set up, dependent upon the eventual outcome of any settlement.
transition or transformation phase of long-term networked IT services contracts is disclosed in note 16.
Management exercise judgement in measuring the exposures to contingent liabilities see note 29 through assessing the likelihood that a potential claim or liability will arise and in quantifying the possible Pension obligations range of financial outcomes.
BT has a commitment, mainly through the BTPS, to pay pension benets to approximately 318,000 people over a period of more than 80 years.
The cost of these benets and the present value of our pension liabilities depend on such factors as the life expectancy of the members, the salary progression of our current employees, the return that the pension fund assets will generate in the time before they are used to fund the pension payments, price ination and the discount rate used to calculate the net present value of the future pension payments.
We use estimates for all of these factors in determining the pension costs and liabilities incorporated in our financial statements.
The assumptions reect historical experience and our judgement regarding future expectations.
The value of the net pension obligation at 31 March 2013, the key financial assumptions used to measure the obligation, the sensitivity of the IAS 19 pension liability at 31 March 2013, and of the income statement charge in 2013 14 to changes in these assumptions are disclosed in note 19.
