16 AGM information Time and place of meeting Security 11am on Wednesday 17 July 2013 at For security reasons and to speed up admission, please Edinburgh International Conference Centre, do not bring suitcases, large bags, cameras, laptops or The Exchange, 150 Morrison Street tape recorders.
If you do, we may ask you to deposit Edinburgh, EH3 8EE them in a secure property store for collection after the meeting.
Programme 10am Doors open to shareholders Mobile devices 11am Meeting commences Please ensure that you switch off mobile devices during 1pm approx Meeting ends the meeting.
Shareholders with disabilities You can find further information about the We will have available the following facilities: venue at www.
co. uk sound amplification Who may attend induction loop If you are on the BT Group Register of Members at sign language interpretation.
6pm on 15 July 2013, you are entitled to attend, The venue is wheelchair accessible.
If you are unable to attend Refreshments the meeting, you can appoint another person a proxy We will have tea and coffee available before, but not to attend the meeting, speak, and or vote on your during, the meeting.
We will hand you a voucher on behalf.
This can be done online at www.
co. uk arrival, which you can use to obtain light refreshments or by post.
Online or postal proxy appointment and after the meeting.
voting instructions must be received by our Registrars, Equiniti, by 11am on Monday 15July 2013.
The number Questions of shares you hold at the above register deadline will The Chairman will answer questions you may have about decide how many votes you or your proxy ies will any of the resolutions.
If you wish to ask a question, have on a poll.
You can find more information about please make your way to a Question Registration appointing a proxy in the notes on the enclosed AGM Point where someone will help you.
To be fair to other admission card proxy card.
shareholders who want to ask a question, you are requested not to register more than one question.
A If you are joint shareholders, all of you can attend and question must be relevant to the business of the meeting speak at the meeting.
If more than one joint holder otherwise it will not be registered.
If you have a question votes, only the vote of the first shareholder listed on on an individual customer service issue, we will direct the Register of Members will be counted.
you to a Customer Help Desk.
The Chairman cannot deal We may, at our discretion, admit guests who are with individual service issues.
We will admit to the Voting meeting anyone accompanying a shareholder Votes on all matters except procedural issues will be who is in a wheelchair, or is otherwise in need of taken on a poll.
At the end of the meeting, we will ask you to vote Admission on the resolutions set out in this document.
You will be Please bring your AGM admission card proxy card or invited to complete your AGM admission card proxy email notification with you to help with identification, card by placing a cross in one of the boxes alongside and keep it until the end of the meeting to vote.
You may each resolution and place it in a voting box as you leave also find it helpful to bring this document with you, in the auditorium.
order to refer to it at the meeting.
Those attending will not be permitted to hand out leaflets or pamphlets in the venue.
Earl Grey Street Gardners Crescent Palmerston Place Waverley station Torphichen Street Edinburgh International Conference Centre Morrison Street Morrison Street Bread Street Haymarket station If you are not coming to the meeting Useful links You will find the Annual Report 2013, together with Webcast this Summary financial statement & notice of meeting We will broadcast live online the statements 2013, which contains other information required by the Chairman, Sir Michael Rake, and by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, on Chief Executive, Ian Livingston, at our website at www.
com annualreport You can www.
com btagm2013 request a printed copy of the Annual Report 2013 and future years, free of charge, by getting in touch with We will not broadcast the questions and voting on our Registrars, Equiniti via the Shareholder Helpline or the business of the meeting.
If you intend to view the by post.
Contact information can be found overleaf.
webcast, please visit this site before the meeting to You may also find the following links useful: check that you will be able to view it on your computer, and also whether you need any additional software.
Sign up as an e-shareholder After the AGM we will make available a recording of www.
Shareholder offers If you have any queries about the meeting, www.
com shareholderoffers please call our Shareholder Helpline on Better Future report Freefone 0808 100 4141 44 121 415 7178 or on www.
Information for individual shareholders calls from outside the UK www.
com sharesandperformance shareholders BT news and media www.
com thegroup W Maitland Street Shandwick Place W Approach Road W Approach Road Fountainbridge Dalry Road Grove Street Semple Street Lothian Road
