10 Auditors statement Independent auditors statement to the membersof BT Group plc We have examined the Summary financial statement for the companys members as a body in accordance which comprises the Summary group income statement, with section 428 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no Summary group cash flow statement and Summary other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept group balance sheet as set out on pages 4 to 5 and the or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any directors report, including the Summary report on other person to whom this statement is shown or into directors remuneration as set out on pages 6 to 7. whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Basis of opinion BTGroupplc Summary financial statement & notice of We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin meeting in accordance with applicable United Kingdom 2008 3 issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our reports on the Companys full annual financial statements describe the basis of our audit opinions on Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the those financial statements, the Report of the directors consistency of the Summary financial statement within and the Report on directors remuneration.
the BT Group plc Summary financial statement & notice of meeting with the full annual financial statements, Opinion the Report of the directors and the Report on directors In our opinion the Summary financial statement is remuneration and its compliance with the relevant consistent with the full annual financial statements, requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006 the Report of the directors and the Report on directors and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read remuneration of BT Group plc for the year ended the other information contained in the BTGroupplc 31 March 2013 and complies with the applicable Summary financial statement & notice of meeting requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act and consider the implications for our statement if 2006, and the regulations made thereunder.
we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary financial  LLP, Chartered Accountants statement.
The other information comprises only the and Statutory Auditors, London, United Kingdom Financial summary, the Chairmans message and the 9 May 2013 other items listed on the contents page.
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only Important note This Summary financial statement is only a summary of the information contained in BTs consolidated financial statements, Report of the directors and Report on directors remuneration as set out in the BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 Annual Report.
It contains additional information derived from the Report of the directors in the Annual Report, and does not contain the full text of that Report of the directors.
It does not contain sufficient information to allow for as full an understanding of the results of the group and state of affairs of the Company or the group and of their policies and arrangements concerning directors remuneration as would be provided by the Annual Report.
A copy of the Annual Report can be viewed online at www.
com annualreport Shareholders may obtain a copy of the full Annual Report for 2013 and future years, free of charge, by calling our Shareholder Helpline on Freefone 0808 100 4141 if overseas on 44 121 415 7178 or in writing to Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN996DA.
The auditors report on the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2013 was unqualified and does not contain any statement under section 498 2 accounting records or returns inadequate or accounts or directors remuneration report not agreeing with records or returns or section 498 3 failure to obtain necessary information and explanations of the Companies Act 2006 and the auditors statement in that Annual Report under section 496 whether directors report is consistent with accounts of that Act was unqualified.
Forward-looking statements caution advised Please see the cautionary statement about forward-looking statements on page 177 in the Annual Report, available as described in the previous note.
Takeover Directive disclosure As a result of the EU Takeover Directive, we have to make additional disclosures in the Annual Report see page 96.
There we set out where this information can be found elsewhere in the Annual Report eg the structure of BTs share capital, including rights and obligations attaching to the shares, or provide details on the matters not covered elsewhere.
