Contact information Telephone Shareholder helpline for general enquiries call: Freefone: 0808 100 4141 44 121 415 7178 Textphone: 0800 169 6907 44 121 415 7028 calls from outside the UK Email You can find information on how to manage your shareholdings at https: help.
co. uk If your question is not answered by the information provided, you can send your enquiry via secure mail from these pages.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of meeting or any related documents including the form of proxy to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
Post Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA, United Kingdom please include a daytime telephone number Data Protection Statement The Company references to Company include BT Group plc and British Telecommunications plc collects and processes information provided by you, or on your behalf, which relates to you as an individual shareholder or as a participant in EasyShare or other scheme or plan.
This information which is your personal data includes your name and contact details, the votes you cast and the Reference Number attributed to you by the Company.
The Company may process your personal data for the purposes of compiling and updating the Company records, fulfiling its legal obligations, processing the shareholder rights you exercise, and contacting you with shareholder information and related communications.
The Company may engage a third party to do this for example our Registrars, Equiniti who may process your personal data on the Companys behalf.
To find out more about how BT protects your personal information, visit www.
com privacypolicy BT Group plc Registered office: 81 Newgate Street, London EC1A 7AJ Registered in England and Wales No.
com PHME: 67069 Printed in England by Pindar Scarborough Ltd Design by saslondon.
com Typeset by RR Donnelley Printed on Amadeus 50 Silk which is made from 50% fide-inked, post consumer waste and 50% virgin fibre.
