BT Group plc Summary financial statement & notice of meeting 2013 11 Notice of meeting The Notice provides details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting AGM on Wednesday 17 July 2013 Why the AGM is important Your role We want you to know what is happening in your Company.
The AGM is your opportunity to hear straight from the Chairman and Chief Executive about how your Company is doing.
You can come in person or view the webcast at www.
com btagm2013 Inside this section Resolutions Your vote is important to us.
We are proposing 20 resolutions at the AGM.
We have provided further details about these resolutions on pages 12 to 15 so you can make an informed decision when voting.
What to do Voting Your AGM admission card proxy card contains details of what you need to do to vote.
Please bring your AGM admission card proxy card or email notification with you to help with identification, and keep it until the end of the meeting to vote.
If you are not going to be at the AGM, and you want to vote on any of the resolutions, please complete and return the enclosed AGMadmission card proxy card to our Registrars, Equiniti, by 11am on Monday 15July 2013.
Alternatively, you can also use this card to appoint another person a proxy to attend the meeting on your behalf.
Your proxy can speak and vote at the meeting.
12 Notice of meeting continued The 2013 Annual General Meeting AGM of BT Group plc will be held at the Edinburgh International Conference Centre, The Exchange, 150 Morrison Street, Edinburgh, EH3 8EE at 11am on Wednesday 17 July 2013 to consider the following: Ordinary business Resolution 4 Resolutions 1 to 15 will be proposed as ordinary That Sir Michael Rake be re-elected as a director.
Resolution 5 That Ian Livingston be re-elected as a director.
Resolution 1: Report and accounts Resolution 6 That the accounts and reports of the directors and the That Tony Chanmugam be re-elected as a director.
auditors for the year ended 31 March 2013 be received.
Resolution 7 By law, the directors have to present these accounts That Gavin Patterson be re-elected as a director.
and reports contained in the Companys Annual Report to the meeting.
Resolution 8 That Tony Ball be re-elected as a director.
Resolution 2: Remuneration report That the directors remuneration report for the year Resolution 9 ended 31 March 2013 be approved.
That the Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt be re-elected as a director.
The directors have to ask shareholders to vote on the Report on directors remuneration.
It is summarised on Resolution 10 pages 6 and 7 of this document.
You can find it in full, That Phil Hodkinson be re-elected as a director.
inthe Annual Report, at www.
com annualreport Resolution 11 Resolution 3: Final dividend That Karen Richardson be re-elected as a director.
That the final dividend of 6.5 pence per share Resolution 12 recommended by the directors be declared to be That Nick Rose be re-elected as a director.
payable on 2 September 2013 to holders of ordinary shares registered at the close of business on 9August Resolution 13 2013.
That Jasmine Whitbread be re-elected as a director.
The final dividend declared cannot exceed the amount Resolution 14: Auditors re-appointment recommended by the directors.
That  LLP be re-appointed auditors of the Company, to hold office until the end Resolutions 4 to 13: Directors of the next general meeting at which accounts are In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance laid before the Company.
Code all the directors will stand for re-election.
The biographies of the directors are set out on pages 8 to 9.
Resolution 15: Auditors remuneration That the directors be authorised to decide the auditors remuneration.
This resolution follows standard practice.
BT Group plc Summary financial statement & notice of meeting 2013 13 Special business b the directors have power to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 560 1 of the 2006 The following resolution will be proposed as an Act entirely paid for in cash under the authority given ordinaryresolution.
by paragraph b of Resolution 16 in connection with a Resolution 16: Authority to allot shares rights issue as if section 561 1 of the 2006 Act did not That: apply to such allotment.
This power expires at the end a the authority and power conferred on the directors of the next AGM but the Company can make offers in relation to the Section 551 Amount by Article 71 and enter into agreements which would, or might, of the Companys articles of association Articles be need equity securities to be allotted after that expiry.
renewed until the end of the next Annual General In this resolution words defined in Resolution 16 have the Meeting AGM and for that period the Section 551 same meaning, and references to an allotment of equity Amount will be 130 million: and securities include a sale of treasury shares.
b the directors be authorised generally and without This resolution renews the powers given to the Board conditions under Section 551 of the Companies Act to allot equity securities without needing to offer these 2006 2006 Act to allot shares and to grant rights shares to existing shareholders first: for cash up to an to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares amount representing approximately 5% of the issued in the Company up to a further nominal amount of share capital including treasury shares at the date of 130 million in connection with a rights issue.
this Notice, approximately 407 million shares: and in This authority expires at the end of the next AGM.
The Board can make offers and enter into agreements There are no current plans to undertake a rights issue or which would, or might, need shares to be allotted to allot shares except in connection with the Companys and rights to be granted after that expiry.
Resolutions 16 and 17 ensure that the directors retain the flexibility to act in the best These authorities supersede any previous ones under interests of shareholders, when opportunities occur, by section 551 of the 2006 Act and rights issue is as allotting shares.
Over a three year rolling period, except in defined in Article 71 of the Companys Articles.
a rights issue or pre-emptive offer, this disapplication will The Companys Articles and paragraph a above give a not exceed 7.5% of issued share capital.
general authority to the Board to allot new shares up to Resolution 18: Authority to purchase ownshares a nominal value of 130 million, which is equivalent to That the Company has general and unconditional approximately 33% of the Companys issued share capital authority to make market purchases as defined in excluding treasury shares at the date of this Notice.
section693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of shares Paragraph b gives an authority to the directors to allot of 5p each in the Company, subject to the following new shares only in connection with a rights issue up to a conditions: further face value of 130 million, which is equivalent to a the maximum number of shares which may be approximately 33% of the Companys issued share capital purchased is 788 million shares: excluding treasury shares at the date of this Notice.
b the minimum price excluding expenses which may These authorities will expire at the end of the 2014 AGM.
be paid for each share is 5p: See the notes to Resolution 18 for more information on treasury shares.
c the maximum price excluding expenses which the Company may pay for each share cannot be more The following three resolutions will be proposed as than the higher of: special resolutions.
i 105% of the average market value of a share in Resolution 17: Authority to allot shares for cash the Company for the five business days prior to That subject to the passing of Resolution 16: the day the purchase is made: and a the authority and power conferred on the directors by Article 71 of the Companys Articles be renewed for the period referred to in Resolution 16 and for that period the Section 561 Amount will be 20 million: and 14 Notice of meeting continued ii the value of a share in the Company calculated on shares were in respect of options granted under the the basis of the higher of the price quoted for: a savings-related share option plans, representing the last independent trade of: or b the highest 6.35% of the Companys issued share capital excluding current independent bid for any number treasury shares.
If the authority given by this resolution of shares in the Company on the trading venues were to be fully used, these would represent 7.06% of where the purchase is carried out: and the Companys issued share capital excluding treasury shares.
There are no warrants outstanding.
d this authority expires at the end of the next AGM, except in relation to the purchase of shares, the Resolution 19: Authority to call a general meeting on contract for which was concluded before the expiry 14days notice of this authority and which might be executed That the Company may call a general meeting but not wholly or partly after that expiry.
an AGM on at least 14 clear days notice.
This resolution renews the Companys authority to The Companies Act 2006 requires that general meetings buy its own shares on similar terms to previous years are held on 21 days notice unless shareholders have authorities.
It would be limited to 788 million ordinary approved a shorter notice period.
This resolution shares, representing 10% of the issued share capital means we would give you two weeks or more notice excluding treasury shares at the date of this Notice.
It will be effective until our The directors would exercise this authority only after next AGM, when we may propose a similar one.
It is considering the effects on earnings per share and the expected that the authority would be used only in benefits for shareholders generally.
The purchase of exceptional circumstances.
shares by the Company under this authority would be The following resolution will be proposed as an a purchase in the market.
It should not be confused ordinary resolution.
with any share dealing facilities that may be offered Resolution 20: Authority for political donations to shareholders by the Company.
That British Telecommunications plc, a wholly-owned Shares purchased by the Company out of distributable subsidiary of the Company, be authorised to make profits could be held as treasury shares, which could political donations to political: then be cancelled, sold for cash or used to meet the a parties and or independent election candidates Companys obligations under its employee share plans.
not exceeding 75,000 in total: and During the 2012 13 financial year, 87million shares b organisations other than political parties not exceeding were purchased 1% of the share capital for a 25,000 in total during the period beginning with consideration of 189million at an average price of the date of the 2013 AGM and ending at the end of 2.16 per share, under this authority.
the day on which the 2014 AGM is held.
At 9 May 2013, 460 million treasury shares had been The terms political donation, political parties, transferred to meet the Companys obligations under independent election candidates, and political its employee share plans and at that date, the Company organisation have the meanings given by sections still held 268 million treasury shares which is equal 363 to 365 of the Companies Act 2006 2006 Act.
to approximately 3.4% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares at that date.
The Companys continuing policy is that no company in the group will make contributions in cash or kind The Companys current intention is to hold any shares including loans to any political party.
However, the purchased under this authority as treasury shares but definition of political donations used in the 2006 Act it retains the flexibility to cancel them or sell them for is very much broader than the sense in which these cash if it considers this to be in the best interests of the words are ordinarily used.
It may cover activities such Company.
The authority will expire at the end of the as making Members of Parliament and others in the 2014 AGM although the directors intend to seek renewal political world aware of key industry issues and matters of this power at eachAGM.
affecting the Company, which make an important At 9 May 2013, there were options outstanding over contribution to their understanding of BT.
The authority 501 million shares of which options over 490 million BT Group plc Summary financial statement & notice of meeting 2013 15 we are requesting in this resolution is not designed to If enough shareholders act together to make requests change the above policy, but will ensure that the group under sections 527 and 528 of the Companies Act continues to act within the provisions of the 2006 Act.
2006 all references are to this Act, the Company may have to publish on its website a statement setting out During the 2012 13 financial year, the Companys any matter relating to the audit of its accounts or any wholly-owned subsidiary, British Telecommunications circumstance connected with its auditors ceasing to plc, spent a total of 739 to cover the cost of a briefing hold office.
The Company cannot make shareholders, meeting with the Scottish National Party.
requesting this, pay its expenses in complying with Register of Members and proxies these sections.
It has to forward the statement to Only shareholders on the BT Group Register of its auditors before it publishes the statement.
The Members at 6pm on 15 July 2013 are entitled to business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes attend, speak and vote at the AGM.
If you are unable to attend and vote, you can appoint Shareholders meeting the threshold and time limit set another person as your proxy to exercise all or any of out in sections 338 and 338A can make the Company your rights to attend, speak and vote at the meeting.
give its members notice of a resolution and or include You may appoint more than one proxy in relation to in the business to be dealt with at the AGM any matter the meeting, provided you appoint each proxy to which may be properly included in that business.
exercise the rights attached to a different share or Shares shares held by you.
A proxy need not be a shareholder The total number of issued and fully paid ordinary of the Company.
On a poll, the number of shares shares of 5p each at 9 May 2013, the latest you hold as a shareholder at 6pm on 15July 2013 practicable business date before the publication of will decide the number of votes that you may cast.
this document, was 8,151,227,029, carrying one Changes after that time will not be taken into account.
The total number of voting rights in the An AGM admission card proxy card accompanies this Company at that date was 7,882,904,006 excluding Notice of meeting.
Nominated persons Documents Unless you are a shareholder you do not have a Copies of all service contracts and letters of right to appoint any proxies under the procedures appointment between the directors and the Company set out above, or referred to under the heading are available for inspection during business hours at AGM information on page 16. the registered office of the Company on any weekday but not on public holidays and will also be available You may nevertheless have a right under an agreement for inspection at the AGM venue from 10am on the between you and a shareholder of the Company day of the meeting until the end of the meeting.
who has nominated you Relevant Shareholder to Your directors believe that the proposals set out have information rights, to be appointed, or to have in Resolutions 1 to 20 are in the best interests someone else appointed, as a proxy for the meeting: of shareholders as a whole and unanimously or to give instructions to the Relevant Shareholder recommend that you vote in favour of all these on the exercise of voting rights.
They intend to do so in respect of their If you are uncertain about your rights or about own beneficial holdings.
your investment you should contact the person or By order of the Board organisation that administers that investment.
Dan Fitz Shareholders rights Secretary Shareholders at the AGM have the right to ask 81 Newgate Street questions relating to its business.
The Chairman need London EC1A 7AJ not answer if, for example, it would involve disclosing confidential information or is undesirable in the 9 May 2013 Companys interests or the good order of the AGM.
