BT Group plc Summary financial statement & notice of meeting 2013 1 Our purpose We believe in the power of communication to make a better world.
We bring together the best networks and technology with the expertise of our people.
Making connections, creating new possibilities.
This way businesses can grow, communities can flourish, and individuals can get more out of life.
Thats the difference we make, every day.
We believe in the power of communication to make a better world We are improving our business.
We make a major contribution We have the financial strength Our people, brand, networks to society, businesses and to invest for the future while and technology set us apart communities rewarding our stakeholders Who we are and what we do Every day we touch the lives We are one of the worlds We are the leading provider of millions of people, helping leading communications of consumer voice and them communicate, do services companies broadband services in the UK business and be entertained and informed We provide managed networked In the UK we are delivering We are Europes largest IT services for many of the one of the fastest rollouts of telecoms services wholesaler largest companies in the world fibre broadband in the world by revenue 2 Chairmans message Welcome to our Summary financial statement & notice of meeting 2013.
Our AGM will be held at the Edinburgh International Conference Centre, Edinburgh on Wednesday 17 July 2013.
Our shareholders We played a vital role in making London We have made good progress this year 2012 the most connected Olympic in a number of areas and delivered and Paralympic Games ever and are strong financial results.
For 2012 13 supporting the British Paralympic team as the Board is proposing a final dividend they prepare for the next Games.
This gives a full year the year we also set ourselves three dividend of 9.5p, also up 14% reflecting stretching Better Future goals to achieve Sir Michael Rake our performance this year.
By extending the Chairman to pursue a prudent financial strategy.
reach of fibre broadband, helping our As well as investing in the future of our customers reduce their carbon footprint business, we will continue to reduce and using our skills and technology to net debt, support our pension fund and help generate money for good causes, pay progressive dividends to you, our we will make a major contribution to both We are making shareholders.
We expect dividends to society and the environment.
long-term grow by 10%-15% peryear for the next Our global presence two years.
investments in We aim to support our multinational Our contribution customers wherever they are.
But to ourfuture, and In the current uncertain environment, do this most effectively we need fair that of the UK.
it is tempting for companies to focus access to telecoms networks around the on short-term targets rather than the world.
We continue to lobby to reduce long-term health of their business.
At trade barriers and press for policy and BT, we have continued to make strategic regulatory change to ensure a more level investments that position us well for competitive playing field.
In the last four years, we working with the European Commission have invested over 10bn in our capital on current initiatives to complete the investment programmes, with much of digital Single Market, and on bilateral this supporting the national infrastructure trade liberalisation negotiations.
We upon which the UK relies.
hope the EU-US trade talks will deepen transatlantic economic integration, Our fibre broadband network will bring reduce non-tariff barriers and ensure fair significant economic benefits to the UK.
access to the US telecoms market.
Truly The investments we are making in TV competitive telecoms markets will boost and mobile will bring new and innovative trade in all business sectors and support services for people to enjoy.
We are growth, innovation and jobs.
creating jobs at the same time.
This year we hired around 1,600 engineers to help with our fibre programme and we insourced around 4,000 jobs.
BT Group plc Summary financial statement & notice of meeting 2013 3 Our people and these are recommended by the Our performance in the year reflects the Board.
The biographies of the directors expertise, hard work and commitment of are set out on pages 8 to 9. our people.
I am delighted that around Your vote is important to us.
If you are 20,000 of them were able to benefit not coming to the AGM, and you want to from employee share option plans, each vote on any of the resolutions, this can be making a gain of around 8,400 on done online or by post.
We are investing more than ever Y ou can find an online audio version of this in our people, making sure they have the document at www.
com annualreport skills and support they need to better In addition there are online versions of our serve our customers.
Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013, our Your Board and voting at the AGM full statutory accounts and other online The Board has a key role in setting the shareholder information.
strategic direction of the Company Our future and played a full part in assessing and Our aim remains to drive profitable approving the major investments we revenue growth.
The investments we made this year.
are making will support this ambition.
We continue to keep the membership We believe our strategy of improving of our Board under review, ensuring we customer service, transforming our cost have the right mix of skills, experience base and investing for the future will and background.
Following a review continue to deliver long-term value for of the composition of our Board our shareholders.
Committees, the Board implemented some changes recommended by the Nominating & Governance Committee.
I met with each director individually during the year to review their performance Sir Michael Rake and consider that each of them makes Chairman an effective contribution to the Board 9 May 2013 debate across a wide range of issues and continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
Patricia Hewitt, as the Senior Independent Director, reviewed my own performance during the year, taking into account feedback from the other Board members.
We are proposing 20 resolutions at the AGM.
We provide further details about these resolutions in the Notice of meeting on pages 11 to 15.
The resolutions View this document online at include the re-election of all the directors www.
