Governance Governance 94 94 Directors and ofcers liability insurance General information and indemnity US Regulation For some years, BT has purchased insurance to cover the directors, New York Stock Exchange ofcers and employees in positions of managerial supervision of BT BT, as a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares listed on the New Group plc and its subsidiaries against defence costs and civil damages York Stock Exchange NYSE, is obliged to disclose any significant ways awarded following an action brought against them in their personal in which its corporate governance practices differ from the corporate capacity.
The policy also covers such individuals whilst serving at the governance listing standards of the NYSE.
companys request as directors of other companies or of joint ventures or on the boards of trade associations or charitable organisations.
We have reviewed the NYSEs listing standards and believe that our The insurance operates to protect the directors and ofcers directly corporate governance practices are consistent with them, with the in circumstances where, by law, BT cannot provide an indemnity and following exception where we do not meet the strict requirements also provides BT, subject to a retention, with cover against the cost set out in the standards.
These state that companies must have a of indemnifying a director or officer.
One layer of insurance is ringnominating corporate governance committee composed entirely of fenced for the directors of BT Group plc.
The cover has been extended independent directors and with written terms of reference which, in to provide limited cover for civil fines and penalties.
As at 9 May 2013, addition to identifying individuals qualied to become board members, and throughout 2012 13, the companys wholly-owned subsidiary, develops and recommends to the Board a set of corporate governance British Telecommunications plc, has provided an indemnity in respect of principles applicable to the company.
We have a Nominating & a similar group of people who would be covered by the above insurance.
Governance Committee whose terms of reference include governance Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover where the and compliance issues see Nominating & Governance Committee person has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Nominating & Governance Committees terms of reference are in line with the requirements set out in the standards.
However, the committee is chaired by the Chairman, Interest of management in certain transactions Sir Michael Rake, who is not considered independent under the During and at the end of 2012 13, none of BTs directors was materially NYSEs listing standards.
The Board and the Nominating & Governance interested in any material transaction in relation to the groups business Committee are made up of a majority of independent, non-executive and none is materially interested in any presently proposed material directors.
The US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC and NYSE rules require Power to authorise conicts companies to comply with certain provisions relating to their audit All directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 committee.
These include the independence of audit committee Act to avoid a situation in which he or she has, or can have a direct or members and procedures for the treatment of complaints regarding indirect interest that conicts, or possibly may conict, with the interests accounting or auditing matters.
We are fully compliant with these of the company.
The companys Articles of Association include provisions requirements.
for dealing with directors conicts of interest in accordance with the 2006 Act.
The company has procedures in place, which it follows, to deal with situations where directors may have any such conicts, which US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require the Board to: BT has securities registered with the SEC.
As a result, we must comply with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable to foreign consider each conict situation separately on its particular facts issuers.
We comply with the legal and regulatory requirements consider the conict situation in conjunction with the rest of their introduced pursuant to this legislation, in so far as they are applicable.
duties under the 2006 Act The Audit & Risk Committee includes Nick Rose who, in the opinion of keep records and Board minutes as to authorisations granted by the Board, is an audit committee financial expert and is independent directors and the scope of any approvals given as dened for this purpose.
The Board considers that the committees regularly review conict authorisation.
members have broad commercial knowledge and extensive business leadership experience, having held between them various prior roles in major business, Government, financial management, and financial function supervision and that this constitutes a broad and suitable mix of business and financial experience on the committee.
You can view the code of ethics adopted for the purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act at www.
com ethics The code applies to the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and senior finance managers.
Governance Governance 95 95 Disclosure controls and procedures Internal control and risk management The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, after evaluating the The Board is responsible for the groups systems of internal control effectiveness of BTs disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of and risk management and for reviewing each year the effectiveness the period covered by this Annual Report & Form 20-F, have concluded of those systems.
Such systems are designed to manage, rather than that, as of such date, BTs disclosure controls and procedures were eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives: any system effective to ensure that material information relating to BT was made can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against known to them by others within the group.
The process in place for reviewing BTs systems of internal control includes procedures designed to identify and The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director concluded that BTs evaluate failings and weaknesses, and, in the case of any categorised as disclosure controls and procedures are also effective to ensure that the significant, procedures exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to information required to be disclosed by the company in reports that remedy the failings.
it les under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within the time periods The Board also takes account of significant social, environmental and specified in the rules and forms of the SEC.
ethical matters that relate to BTs businesses and reviews annually BTs corporate responsibility policy.
The companys workplace practices, The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director have also provided the specic environmental, social and ethical risks and opportunities and certications required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
details of underlying governance processes are dealt with in pages 18 to 22 in the Strategy section and Our performance as a responsible and Internal control over financial reporting sustainable business on page 61.
BTs management is responsible for establishing and maintaining We have enterprise-wide risk management processes for identifying, adequate internal control over financial reporting for the group evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group.
These including the consolidation process.
Internal control over financial processes have been in place during the year and have continued up to reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the date on which this document was approved.
The processes are in the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with IFRS.
Management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of internal Risk assessment and evaluation takes place as an integral part of BTs control over financial reporting based on the framework for internal annual strategic planning cycle.
We have a detailed risk management control evaluation contained in the Revised Guidance for Directors on process, culminating in a Board review, which identies the key risks the UK Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council facing the group and each business unit.
This information is reviewed by the Turnbull Guidance.
senior management as part of the strategic review.
Our current key risks are summarised in the Strategy section Our risks on pages 23 to 27.
Based on this assessment, management has concluded that at 31 March 2013, BTs internal control over financial reporting was effective.
The key features of the enterprise-wide risk management and internal control process comprise the following procedures: There were no changes in BTs internal control over financial reporting that occurred during 2012 13 that have materially affected, or are senior executives collectively review the groups key risks and have reasonably likely to have materially affected, the groups internal created a Group Risk Register describing the risks, owners and control over financial reporting.
Any significant deficiency, as dened mitigation strategies.
This is reviewed by the Group Risk Panel and by the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board PCAOB, in the Operating Committee before being reviewed and approved by internal control over financial reporting, is reported to the Audit & the Board Risk Committee.
 LLP, which has audited the the lines of business and internal service unit carry out risk consolidated financial statements for 2012 13, has also audited the assessments of their operations, create risk registers relating to those effectiveness of the groups internal control over financial reporting operations, and ensure that the key risks are addressed under Auditing Standard No.
senior executives with responsibilities for major group operations report quarterly with their opinion on the effectiveness of the operation of internal controls in their area of responsibility The Auditors report is on page 101 the groups internal auditors carry out continuing assessments of the quality of risk management and control, report to management and the Audit & Risk Committee on the status of specic areas identied for improvement and promote effective risk management in the lines of business and internal service unit operations the Audit & Risk Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers the effectiveness of the operation of internal control procedures in the group during the financial year.
It reviews reports from the internal and external auditors and reports its conclusions to the Board.
The Audit & Risk Committee has carried out these actions for 2012 13.
Joint ventures and associates, which BT does not control, have not been dealt with as part of the group risk management process and are responsible for their own internal control assessment.
BTs significant accounting policies are set out on pages 109 to 115.
The consistent application of those policies is subject to ongoing verication through management review and independent review by internal and external auditors.
Governance Governance Governance Governance 96 96 The processes supporting the preparation and consolidation of the the amendment of BTs Articles of Association requires shareholder financial statements have been documented and are subject to annual approval in accordance with legislation in force from time to time verication through the programme of testing conducted by our internal the powers of the directors are determined by UK legislation and auditors which serves to confirm the operation of the internal controls the Articles of Association.
The directors are authorised to issue and over financial reporting and compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
allot shares, and to undertake purchases of BT shares subject to The Audit & Risk Committee reviews BTs published financial results, shareholder approval at the AGM related disclosures and accounting judgements.
The committees BT Group plc is not party to any significant agreements that take activities are set out on pages 71 and 72. effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover The Board has approved the formal statement of matters which we do not have any agreements with directors providing for are reserved to it for consideration, approval or oversight.
It has compensation for loss of ofce or employment that occurs because also approved the groups corporate governance framework, which of a takeover.
There is similarly no such provision in standard sets out the high level principles by which BT is managed and the contracts for employees.
responsibilities and powers of the Operating Committee and the groups senior executives.
As part of this framework, the development and Financial instruments implementation of certain powers relating to group-wide policies and Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the practices are reserved to identied senior executives.
group and exposure to interest risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and foreign exchange are given in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
Takeover Directive disclosure Following the implementation of the European Union EU Takeover Political donations Directive by certain provisions of the 2006 Act, we are required to make Our continuing policy is that no company in the group will make additional disclosures.
A number of these disclosures can be found contributions in cash or kind to any political party, whether by gift or elsewhere in this Report as set out below: loan.
However, the denition of political donations used in the 2006 Act structure of BTs share capital refer to page 166 including the rights is very much broader than the sense in which these words are ordinarily and obligations attaching to the shares refer to pages 183 to 186 used.
It may cover activities such as making Members of Parliament and restrictions on the transfer of BT shares and voting rights refer to others in the political world aware of key industry issues and matters pages 183 and 184 affecting the company, which make an important contribution to their significant direct or indirect shareholdings refer to page 97 understanding of BT.
appointment and replacement of directors refer to pages 85, 86 The authority we are requesting at the AGM is not designed to change and 185. the above policy.
It will, however, ensure that the group continues The disclosures which are not covered elsewhere in this Report are: to act within the provisions of the 2006 Act requiring companies to obtain shareholder authority before they can make donations to EU BT has two employee share ownership trusts which hold BT shares political parties and or political organisations as dened in the 2006 for the purpose of satisfying awards made under the various Act.
During 2012 13, the companys wholly-owned subsidiary, British employee share plans.
The trustee of the BT Group Employee Share Telecommunications plc, made payments totalling 739 2011 12: Investment Plan may invite participants, on whose behalf it holds 3,550 to cover the cost of a brieng meeting with the Scottish shares, to direct it how to vote in respect of those shares, and, if National Party.
No loans were made to any political party by any there is an offer for the shares or other transaction which would lead company in the BT Group.
to a change of control of BT, participants may direct it to accept the offer or agree to the transaction.
In respect of shares held in the BT Group Employee Share Ownership Trust, the trustee abstains from voting those shares, and if there is an offer for the shares the trustee is not obliged to accept or reject the offer but will have regard to the interests of the participants, may consult them to obtain their views on the offer and may otherwise take the action with respect to the offer it thinks fair we are not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights no person holds securities carrying special rights with regard to control of the company proxy appointment and voting instructions must be received bytheregistrars not less than 48 hours before a general meeting seealso page 184
