Business 30 Operating Committee The key management committee is the Operating Committee, which meets weekly and is chaired by the Chief Executive.
Its members are set out below.
The Operating Committee has responsibility for running our business Members and delivering our strategy.
It monitors the groups financial, operational and customer service performance and has cross- 2 1 business oversight of the lines of business.
It also reviews the groups key risks and considers the potential threats and opportunities for the business.
You can read more about the Operating Committee on page 67. a a 1.
Tony Chanmugam 3 4 Chief Executive Group Finance Director Appointed Chief Executive Appointed Group Finance Director in June 2008.
Ian was formerly in December 2008.
Tony was CEO, BT Retail and prior to that, formerly CFO, BT Retail and Group Finance Director.
Luis Alvarez CEO, BT Retail CEO, BT Global Services Appointed CEO, BT Retail Appointed CEO, BT Global Services in May 2008.
Gavin was formerly in October 2012.
Luis was formerly Managing Director, Consumer president of the Europe, Middle 5 6 Division, BT Retail.
East, Africa and Latin America operations of BT Global Services.
Clare Chapman Group People Director 6.
Clive Selley Appointed Group People Director CEO, BT Technology, Service & in October 2011.
Before joining Operations & Group CIO BT, Clare was director general of Appointed CEO, BT Technology, workforce for the NHS and Social Service & Operations in January Care at the Department of Health.
Clive was formerly CEO, Clare was also previously group BT Innovate & Design and prior personnel director at Tesco.
to that President of Portfolio & Service Design.
Nigel Stagg CEO, BT Wholesale 8.
Olivia Gareld Appointed CEO, BT Wholesale Invitee in September 2011.
Nigel was CEO, Openreach formerly BT Business Managing Appointed CEO, Openreach in Director, BT Retail and prior to April 2011.
Olivia was formerly that Managing Director, Customer Group Director, Strategy, Policy Service, BT Retail.
and Portfolio and prior to that held roles in BT Global Services.
The CEO of Openreach cannot Invitee be a member of the Operating Committee under the provisions b of the Undertakings.
a Directors of BT Group plc.
You will nd their full biographies on pages 65 and 66. b You will nd more information on the Undertakings on page 39.
