Critical accounting estimates and key 3. significant accounting policies The significant accounting policies applied in preparation of these judgements continued consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have Current and deferred income tax been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise The actual tax we pay on our profits is determined according to stated.
complex tax laws and regulations.
Where the effect of these laws and regulations is unclear, we use estimates in determining the liability Revenue for the tax to be paid on our past profits which we recognise in our Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received or financial statements.
We believe the estimates, assumptions and receivable for communication services and equipment sales, net of judgements are reasonable but this can involve complex issues which discounts and sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised when it is probable may take a number of years to resolve.
The final determination of prior that the economic benets associated with a transaction will ow year tax liabilities could be different from the estimates reected in the to the group and the amount of revenue and associated costs can be financial statements and may result in the recognition of an additional measured reliably.
Where the group acts as an agent in a transaction, tax expense or tax credit in the income statement.
it recognises revenue net of directly attributable costs.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement in Services determining the amounts to be recognised.
In particular, judgement is Revenue arising from separable installation and connection services is used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should be recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
Revenue from the rental recognised, taking into account the expected timing and level of future of analogue and digital lines and private circuits is recognised evenly taxable income.
over the period to which it relates.
Revenue from calls is recognised at The value of the groups income tax assets and liabilities is disclosed on the time the call is made over the groups network.
Subscription fees, the balance sheet on page 104.
The carrying value of the groups consisting primarily of monthly charges for access to broadband and deferred tax assets and liabilities is disclosed in note 10. other internet access or voice services, are recognised as revenue as the service is provided.
Revenue from the interconnection of voice and data trafc between other telecommunications operators is recognised at Goodwill the time of transit across the groups network.
The recoverable amount of cash generating units CGUs has been determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations require Equipment sales the use of estimates, including managements expectations of future Revenue from the sale of equipment is recognised when all the revenue growth, operating costs, profit margins and operating cash ows significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer, for each CGU.
which is normally the date the equipment is delivered and accepted by The carrying value of goodwill and the key assumptions used in the customer.
performing the annual impairment assessment are disclosed in note 13.
Long-term contractual arrangements Revenue from long-term contractual arrangements including xed Providing for doubtful debts price contracts to design and build software solutions, is recognised BT provides services to consumer and business customers, mainly on based on the percentage of completion method.
The stage of credit terms.
We know that certain debts due to us will not be paid completion is estimated using an appropriate measure according to the through the default of a small number of our customers.
Estimates, nature of the contract such as the proportion of costs incurred relative based on our historical experience, are used in determining the level to the estimated total contract costs, or other measures of completion of debts that we believe will not be collected.
These estimates include such as the achievement of contract milestones and customer such factors as the current state of the economy and particular acceptance.
In the case of time and materials contracts, revenue is industry issues.
recognised as the service is rendered.
The value of the provision for doubtful debts is disclosed in note 16.
Costs related to delivering services under long-term contractual arrangements are expensed as incurred except for an element of costs incurred in the initial contract set up, transition or transformation phase, which is deferred and recorded within non-current assets.
These costs are then recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the remaining contract term, unless the pattern of service delivery indicates a different prole is appropriate.
These costs are directly attributable to specic contracts, relate to future activity, will generate future economic benets and are assessed for recoverability on a regular basis.
Financial statements Financial statements 110 The costs incurred by BT TSO are recharged to the customer-facing 3. significant accounting policies continued lines of business to reect the services it provides to them.
Depreciation The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of total and amortisation incurred by BT TSO in relation to the networks and expected contract revenues and costs, as well as reliable measurement of systems it manages and operates on behalf of the customer-facing lines the progress made towards completion.
Unless the financial outcome of of business is allocated to the lines of business based on their respective a contract can be estimated with reasonable certainty, no attributable utilisation.
Capital expenditure incurred by BT TSO for specic projects profit is recognised.
In such circumstances, revenue is recognised equal to undertaken on behalf of the customer-facing lines of business is the costs incurred to date, to the extent that such revenue is expected to allocated based on the value of the directly attributable expenditure be recoverable, or costs are accrued to bring the margin to nil.
Where projects are not directly attributable to a particular line Recognised revenue and profits are subject to revisions during the of business, capital expenditure is allocated between them based on contract if the assumptions regarding the overall contract outcome are the proportion of estimated future economic benets.
The cumulative impact of a revision in estimates is recorded in groups centralised functions are not reportable segments as they did the period in which such revisions become likely and can be estimated.
not meet the quantitative thresholds as set out in IFRS 8 Operating Where the actual and estimated costs to completion exceed the Segments for any of the years presented.
estimated revenue for a contract, the full contract life loss is recognised immediately.
Performance of each reportable segment is measured based on adjusted EBITDA, dened as EBITDA before specic items, as Multiple element arrangements included in the internal financial reports reviewed by the Operating Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more separate Committee.
EBITDA is dened as the operating profit or loss before elements that have value to a customer on a standalone basis, revenue depreciation, amortisation, net finance expense and taxation.
is recognised for each element as if it were an individual contract.
The Adjusted EBITDA is considered to be a useful measure of the total contract consideration is allocated between the separate elements operating performance of the lines of business because it on the basis of relative fair value and the appropriate revenue approximates the underlying operating cash ow by eliminating recognition criteria are applied to each element as described above.
depreciation and amortisation and also provides a meaningful analysis of trading performance by excluding specic items, which Operating and reportable segments are disclosed separately by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
The groups operating segments are reported based on financial Specic items are detailed in note 9 and are not allocated to the information provided to the Operating Committee, as detailed on reportable segments as this reects how they are reported to the page 30, which is the key management committee and represents the Operating Committee.
Finance expense and income are not chief operating decision maker.
allocated to the reportable segments, as the central treasury function manages this activity, together with the overall net debt position of The groups organisational structure reects the different customer the group.
groups to which it provides communications products and services via its customer-facing lines of business: BT Global Services, BT Retail, Retirement benets BT Wholesale and Openreach.
The customer-facing lines of business are The groups net obligation in respect of dened benefit pension plans supported by an internal service unit: BT Technology, Service & is the present value of the dened benefit obligation less the fair value Operations BT TSO, which was created through the combination of of the plan assets.
BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate during 2012 13.
The calculation of the obligation is performed by a qualied actuary The customer-facing lines of business are the groups reportable using the projected unit credit method and key actuarial assumptions at segments and generate substantially all the groups revenue.
The the balance sheet date.
remaining operations of the group are aggregated and included within the Other category to reconcile to the consolidated results of the The income statement expense is allocated between an operating charge group.
The Other category includes BT TSO and the groups centralised and net finance income or expense.
The operating charge reects the functions including procurement and supply chain, eet and property increase in the dened benefit obligation resulting from the pension management.
benefit earned by active employees in the current period.
The net finance income reects the expected return on the assets of the plan offset by the Provisions for the settlement of significant legal, commercial and unwinding of the discount applied to the liabilities of the plan, based on regulatory disputes, which are negotiated at a group level, are initially conditions prevailing at the start of the year.
Actuarial gains and losses recorded in the Other segment.
On resolution of the dispute, the full are recognised in full in the period in which they occur and are presented impact is recognised in the relevant line of business results and offset in the group statement of comprehensive income.
in the group results through the utilisation of the provision previously charged to the Other segment.
Settlements which are particularly The group also operates dened contribution pension plans and the significant or cover more than one financial year may fall within the income statement expense represents the contributions payable for denition of specic items as detailed on page 107. the year.
Financial statements 111 Computer software 3. significant accounting policies continued Computer software comprises computer software licences purchased Property, plant and equipment from third parties, and also the cost of internally developed software.
Property, plant and equipment are included at historical cost, net of Computer software licences purchased from third parties are initially accumulated depreciation, government grants and any impairment recorded at cost.
Costs directly associated with the production of charges.
On disposal of property, plant and equipment, the difference internally developed software, where it is probable that the software between the sale proceeds and the net book value at the date of disposal will generate future economic benets, are recognised as intangible is recognised in other operating income in the income statement.
Included within the cost for network infrastructure and equipment are Telecommunications licences direct and indirect labour costs, materials and directly attributable Licence fees paid to governments, which permit telecommunications overheads.
Depreciation is provided on property, plant and equipment activities to be operated for dened periods, are initially recorded at on a straight line basis from the time the asset is available for use, to cost and amortised from the time the network is available for use to the write off the assets cost over the estimated useful life taking into end of the licence period.
account any expected residual value.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Customer relationships The lives assigned to principal categories of assets are as follows: Intangible assets acquired through business combinations are recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Assumptions are used in Land and buildings estimating the fair values of acquired intangible assets and include Freehold buildings 40 years managements estimates of revenue and profits to be generated by the Leasehold land and buildings Unexpired portion of lease or acquired businesses.
40 years, whichever is the shorter Estimated useful economic lives The estimated useful economic lives assigned to the principal Network infrastructure and other equipment categories of intangible assets are as follows: Transmission equipment Duct 40 years Computer software 2 to 10 years Cable 3 to 25 years Telecommunications licences 2 to 20 years Fibre 5 to 20 years Customer relationships and brands 5 to 15 years Exchange equipment 2 to 13 years Programme rights Payphones and other network equipment 2 to 20 years Programme rights are recognised on the balance sheet from the point Other assets at which the legally enforceable licence period begins.
Rights for which Motor vehicles 2 to 9 years the licence period has not started are disclosed as contractual commitments in note 29.
Payments made to receive commissioned or Computers and ofce equipment 3 to 6 years acquired programming in advance of the legal right to broadcast the Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the programmes are classied as prepayments.
lease term or their useful economic life.
Residual values and useful lives Programme rights are initially recognised at cost and are amortised are reassessed annually and, if necessary, changes are recognised from the point at which they are available for use, on a straight line prospectively.
basis over the programming period, or the remaining licence term, as appropriate.
The amortisation charge is recorded within operating costs Intangible assets in the income statement.
Identiable intangible assets are recognised when the group controls Programmes produced internally are recognised within current assets at the asset, it is probable that future economic benets attributable to production cost, which includes labour costs and an appropriate the asset will ow to the group and the cost of the asset can be reliably portion of relevant overheads, and charged to the income statement measured.
All intangible assets, other than goodwill, are amortised over over the period of the related broadcast.
The method of amortisation reects the pattern in which the assets are expected to be consumed.
If the pattern Programme rights are tested for impairment in accordance with the cannot be determined reliably, the straight line method is used.
groups policy for impairment of non-financial assets set out on page 112.
Related cash outows are classied as operating cash ows Goodwill in the cash ow statement.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of the identiable net assets including intangible assets of the acquired business.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the CGUs that is expected to benefit from the business combination.
Each CGU to which goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Financial statements Financial statements 112 The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are 3. significant accounting policies continued consolidated from and up to the date of change of control.
Where Provisions necessary, accounting policies of subsidiaries have been aligned with Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or the policies adopted by the group.
All intra-group transactions constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an including any gains or losses, balances, income or expenses are outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the eliminated in full on consolidation.
amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are determined by When the group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on discounting the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that disposal is calculated as the difference between i the aggregate of reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any risks specic to the liability.
Financial liabilities within provisions are retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the assets initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and any noncost using the effective interest method.
Onerous lease provisions are controlling interests.
The profit or loss on disposal is normally measured at the lower of the cost to full or to exit the contract.
Current and deferred income tax Business combinations Current income tax is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or The consideration is measured at fair value, which is the aggregate of substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the fair values of the assets transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed the companys subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures operate and and the equity instruments issued in exchange for control of the generate taxable income.
The group periodically evaluates positions acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
The taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax acquirees identiable assets and liabilities are recognised at their fair regulation is subject to interpretation, and the group establishes value at the acquisition date.
provisions where appropriate on the basis of the amounts expected to be paid to tax authorities.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and measured at cost, representing the excess of the aggregate of the consideration, Deferred tax is recognised, using the liability method, in respect of the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, and the temporary differences between the carrying amount of the groups fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the assets and liabilities and their tax base.
Deferred income tax assets and acquiree if any over the net of the fair values of the identiable assets liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset and liabilities at the date of acquisition.
current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable Impairment of non-financial assets entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Intangible assets with nite useful lives and property, plant and Any remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the basis equipment are tested for impairment if events or changes in of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there will circumstances assessed at each reporting date indicate that the be suitable taxable profits, within the same jurisdiction, in the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When an impairment test is foreseeable future against which the deductible temporary difference performed, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the can be utilised.
higher of the net present value of the expected future cash ows value in use of the relevant cash generating unit and the fair value Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected to apply in less cost to sell.
the periods in which the asset is realised or liability settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
losses are recognised in the income statement, normally as a specic item.
If a cash generating unit is impaired, impairment losses are Basis of consolidation allocated rstly against goodwill, and secondly on a pro rata basis The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of against intangible and other assets.
BT Group plc the company and its subsidiaries, and they incorporate its share of the results of associates and joint ventures using the equity Other operating income method of accounting.
Other operating income is income generated by the group that arises from activities outside the provision of communication services and A subsidiary is an entity that is controlled by another entity, known as equipment sales.
Items reported as other operating income include the parent.
Control is the power to govern the financial and operating income from repayment works, proceeds from scrap and cable policies of an entity so as to obtain benets from its activities, generally recovery, income generated by our eet operations, profits and losses accompanied by a shareholding of more than one half of the voting on the disposal of businesses and property, plant and equipment, and rights.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated income generated from the exploitation of our intellectual property.
subsidiaries, which consist of the amounts of those interests at the date of the original business combination and non-controlling share of changes in equity since the date of the combination, are not material to the groups financial statements.
See note 1 for more details.
Financial statements 113 3. significant accounting policies continued Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is Government grants based on the substance of the arrangement and requires an assessment Our policy for government grants changed from 1 April 2012 as of whether the fullment of the arrangement is dependent on the use explained on page 107.
Government grants are recognised when there of a specic asset or assets and whether the arrangement conveys the is reasonable assurance that the conditions associated with the grants right to use the asset.
have been complied with and the grants will be received.
Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group holds Grants for the purchase or production of property, plant and equipment substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as are deducted from the cost of the related assets and reduce future finance leases.
Finance lease assets are capitalised at the depreciation expense accordingly.
Grants for the reimbursement of commencement of the lease term at the lower of the present value of operating expenditure are deducted from the related category of costs the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset.
The in the income statement.
Government grants received relating to future obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect expenditure are recognised as payments received in advance within of future periods, are recognised as liabilities.
Leases are subsequently Other payables.
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards are held by Foreign currencies the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Rentals are charged to the Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of transactions and the translation of monetary assets and Own shares liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at period end exchange Own shares represent the shares of the parent company BT Group plc rates are recognised in the income statement line which most that are held in treasury or by employee share ownership trusts.
Own appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
shares are recorded at cost and deducted from equity.
When shares vest unconditionally or are cancelled they are transferred from the own On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign undertakings are shares reserve to retained earnings at their weighted average cost.
translated into Sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results of foreign undertakings are translated into Sterling at average rates of Share-based payments exchange for the year unless this average is not a reasonable The group operates a number of equity settled share-based payment approximation of the cumulative effects of the rates prevailing on the arrangements, under which the group receives services from employees transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at in consideration for equity instruments share options and shares of the the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on group.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair value retranslation are recognised directly in a separate component of equity, at the date of grant excluding the effect of non market-based vesting the translation reserve.
conditions but including any market-based performance criteria and the In the event of the disposal of an undertaking with assets and liabilities impact of non-vesting conditions for example the requirement for denominated in a foreign currency, the cumulative translation employees to save.
The fair value determined at the grant date is difference associated with the undertaking in the translation reserve is recognised as an expense on a straight line basis over the vesting period, charged or credited to the gain or loss on disposal recognised in the based on the groups estimate of the options or shares that will income statement.
eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured using either the Binomial options Research and development pricing model or Monte Carlo simulations, whichever is most appropriate Research expenditure is recognised in the income statement in the to the share-based payment arrangement.
period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure, including the Service and performance conditions are vesting conditions.
Any other cost of internally developed software, is recognised in the income conditions are non-vesting conditions which have to be taken into statement in the period in which it is incurred unless it is probable that account to determine the fair value of equity instruments granted.
In economic benets will ow to the group from the asset being the case that an award or option does not vest as a result of a failure to developed, the cost of the asset can be reliably measured and technical meet a non-vesting condition that is within the control of either feasibility can be demonstrated, in which case it is capitalised as an counterparty, this is accounted for as a cancellation.
Cancellations are intangible asset on the balance sheet.
Capitalisation ceases when the treated as accelerated vesting and all remaining future charges are asset being developed is ready for use.
Research and development immediately recognised in the income statement.
As the requirement costs include direct and indirect labour, materials and directly to save under an employee sharesave arrangement is a non-vesting attributable overheads.
condition, employee cancellations are treated as an accelerated vesting.
Awards that lapse or are forfeited result in a credit to the income statement reversing the previously recognised charges in the year in which they lapse or are forfeited.
Financial statements Financial statements 114 Impairment of financial assets 3. significant accounting policies continued The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset Termination benets or group of financial assets are impaired.
Where there is objective Termination benets leaver costs are payable when employment is evidence that an impairment loss has arisen on assets carried at terminated before the normal retirement date, or when an employee amortised cost, the carrying amount is reduced with the loss being accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benets.
The recognised in the income statement.
The impairment loss is measured group recognises termination benets when it is demonstrably as the difference between that assets carrying amount and the present committed to the affected employees leaving the group.
value of estimated future cash ows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
Financial instruments Financial liabilities Financial assets Trade and other payables Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Financial liabilities within trade and other payables are initially A financial asset is classied in this category if it is either acquired recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced amount, principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term held for trading and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest or if so designated by management.
Financial assets at fair value method.
through profit and loss are initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised in the Loans and other borrowings income statement.
Any direct transaction costs are recognised Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of immediately in the income statement.
amounts received net of transaction costs.
Loans and other borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective Loans and receivables interest method and, if included in a fair value hedge relationship, are Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or re-valued to reect the fair value movements on the hedged risk determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market other associated with the loans and other borrowings.
The resulting than those for which the group may not recover substantially all of its amortisation of fair value movements, on fide-designation of the hedge, initial investment, other than because of credit deterioration, which are recognised in the income statement.
Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently carried Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with changes in The group uses derivative financial instruments mainly to reduce carrying value recognised in the income statement.
exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The group does Available-for-sale financial assets not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for financial trading Non-derivative financial assets classied as available-for-sale are either purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge specically designated in this category or not classied in any of the accounting are classied as held for trading and are initially recognised other categories.
Available-for-sale financial assets are initially and subsequently measured at fair value.
The gain or loss on recognised at fair value plus direct transaction costs and then re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income re-measured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value, with statement in net finance expense.
Derivative financial instruments are unrealised gains and losses except for changes in exchange rates for classied as current assets or current liabilities where they have a monetary items, interest, dividends and impairment losses, which are maturity period within 12 months.
Where derivative financial recognised in the income statement recognised in equity until the instruments have a maturity period greater than 12 months, they are financial asset is derecognised, at which time the cumulative gain or classied within either non-current assets or non-current liabilities.
loss previously recognised in equity is taken to the income statement, Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any in the line that most appropriately reects the nature of the item or resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge.
for hedge accounting, hedge documentation must be prepared at Trade and other receivables inception and the hedge must be expected to be highly effective both Financial assets within trade and other receivables are initially prospectively and retrospectively.
The hedge is tested for effectiveness recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced amount, at inception and in subsequent periods in which the hedge remains in and are subsequently carried at amortised cost, using the effective operation.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging interest method, less provisions made for doubtful receivables.
instrument expires, or is sold, terminated or no longer qualies for Provisions are made specically where there is evidence of a risk of non hedge accounting or the group chooses to end the hedge relationship.
payment, taking into account ageing, previous losses experienced and The group designates certain derivatives as either cash ow hedges or general economic conditions.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily convertible to cash and are subject to insignicant risk of changes in value and have an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash ow statement, cash and cash equivalents are as dened above net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are included within loans and other borrowings, in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Financial statements 115 Expected impact of adoption of IAS 19 Revised 2011 3. significant accounting policies continued IAS 19 Revised 2011 requires retrospective adoption and therefore Cash ow hedges prior periods will be restated.
The impact on the income statement for When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the 2012 13 and 2011 12, had the amendments applied, would have variability in cash ows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly been to: probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity, in the increase operating costs by around 40m 2011 12: 30m cash ow reserve.
For cash ow hedges of recognised assets or reduce net finance income on pensions, reported as a specic item, liabilities, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity by around 150m 2011 12: 295m resulting in a restated net and recognised in the same line of the income statement and in the finance expense of approximately 120m 2011 12: 100m.
same period or periods that the hedged transaction affects the income The service cost that will be recognised in the income statement in statement.
Any ineffectiveness arising on a cash ow hedge of a 2013 14 is estimated to be around 50m higher than the restated cost recognised asset or liability is recognised immediately in the same for 2012 13 mainly due to the change in discount rate and ination income statement line as the hedged item.
The net pension interest expense within specic items is on highly probable transactions, it is recognised in the income expected to be around 240m for 2013 14, an increase of around statement line which most appropriately reects the nature of the item 120m over the 2012 13 restated amount due to the higher net deficit or transaction.
more than offsetting the lower discount rate.
Fair value hedges The sensitivity of the net pension interest expense for 2013 14, under When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the this revised basis, to an increase of 0.25 percentage points in the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or unrecognised discount rate assumption would be a reduction of 65m.
As shown in rm commitment, the change in fair value of the derivative that is note 19, an increase of 0.25 percentage points in the RPI ination designated as a fair value hedge is recorded in the income statement at assumption would increase the retirement benefit obligation at each reporting date, together with any changes in fair value of the 31 March 2013 by 1.5bn.
If this were the case, the net pension hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
interest expense for 2013 14 would be 65m higher.
Accounting standards, interpretations and amendments not yet effective IAS 19 Employee Benets IAS 19 Revised 2011 is effective for the accounting period beginning on 1 April 2013.
The amendments set out in this revised accounting standard are intended to provide a clearer indication of an entitys obligations resulting from the provision of dened benefit pension plans and how those obligations will affect its financial position, financial performance and cash ow.
Compensating adjustments in other comprehensive income will leave equity unchanged.
The amendments which will impact the consolidated financial statements include: the recognition of plan administration costs in the income statement the replacement of the expected return on pension plan assets and interest expense on pension plan liabilities with a single net interest component calculated on the net dened benefit liability or asset using the discount rate used to determine the dened benefit obligation additional disclosures to explain the characteristics of an entitys dened benefit plans, the amounts recognised in the financial statements and the risks arising from dened benefit plans.
The amendments will not impact the value of the retirement benefit obligation on the face of the group balance sheet.
