Financial statements 164 Financial statements of BT Group plc Cash BT Group plc accounting policies Cash includes cash in hand and bank deposits repayable on demand.
Accounting basis As used in these financial statements and associated notes, the term Share-based payments company refers to BT Group plc.
These separate financial statements The company does not incur a charge for share-based payments.
of the company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006.
However, the issuance by the company of share options and awards to The separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance employees of its subsidiaries represents additional capital contributions with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
An addition to the companys investment in subsidiaries is recorded with a corresponding increase in equity The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and shareholders funds.
The additional capital contribution is determined under the historical cost convention as modied by the revaluation of based on the fair value of options and awards at the date of grant and is certain financial instruments at fair value.
recognised over the vesting period.
As permitted by Section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, the companys profit and loss account has not been presented.
Other information The BT Group plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended Dividends 31 March 2013 contain a consolidated cash ow statement.
The Board recommends that a final dividend in respect of Consequently, the company has taken advantage of the exemption in the year ended 31 March 2013 of 6.5p will be paid to shareholders on FRS 1, Cash Flow Statements, not to present its own cash ow 2 September 2013, taking the full year proposed dividend in respect of statement.
This dividend is subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting and therefore the The BT Group plc consolidated financial statements for the liability of approximately 514m 2011 12: 453m has not been year ended 31 March 2013 contain related party disclosures.
included in these financial statements.
Consequently, the company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8, Related Party Disclosures, not to disclose transactions with Employees other members of the BT Group.
The executive directors and the Chairman of BT Group plc were the only The BT Group plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended employees of the company during 2012 13.
The costs relating to 31 March 2013 contain financial instrument disclosures which comply qualifying services provided to the companys principal subsidiary, with FRS 29, Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Consequently, the British Telecommunications plc, are recharged to that company.
company is exempted from the disclosure requirements of FRS 29 in respect of its financial instruments.
Audit fees The audit fee in respect of the parent company was 41,000 2011 12: Investments in subsidiary undertakings 41,000.
Fees payable to  LLP for non-audit Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost and reviewed services to the company are not required to be disclosed as they are for impairment if there are indicators that the carrying value may not be included within note 8 to the consolidated financial statements of recoverable.
Taxation Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all timing differences which have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that there will be sufficient taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
The deferred tax balances are not discounted.
Dividends Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the year in which the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid: final dividends when authorised in general meetings by shareholders.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Repurchased shares of the company are recorded in the balance sheet as part of Own shares reserve and presented as a deduction from shareholders equity at cost.
