Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report ensure that the financial statements comply with the and financial statements, and the Directors Remuneration Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for Report in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial other irregularities.
statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the financial statements in accordance with Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, a Directors United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Statement of Under company law the Directors must not approve the Corporate Governance that comply with that law and those financial statements unless they are satisfied that, taken as a regulations.
whole, the annual report and accounts provide the information The accounts are published on the www.
co. uk necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys website, which is maintained by the Companys Manager, performance, business model and strategy and that they give a JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
The true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by the total return or loss of the Company for that period.
In order JPMAM is, so far as it relates to the Company, the to provide these confirmations, and in preparing these financial responsibility of JPMAM.
The work carried out by the Auditors statements, the Directors must be satisfied that, taken as a does not involve consideration of the maintenance and whole, the annual report and accounts are fair, balanced and integrity of this website and, accordingly, the Auditors accept understandable and provide the information necessary for no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the shareholders to assess the performance, business model and financial statements since they were initially presented on strategy of the Company: and the Directors are required to: the website.
The financial statements are prepared in select suitable accounting policies and then apply them accordance with UK legislation, which may differ from consistently: legislation in other jurisdictions.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in reasonable and prudent: the Directors Report, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge the financial statements, which have been prepared state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and explained in the financial statements: and and applicable law, give a fair, balanced and understandable prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and return or unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will loss of the Company.
continue in business The Directors confirm that, taken as a whole, the annual report and the Directors confirm they have done so.
The Board and accounts are fair, balanced and understandable and confirms it is satisfied that the annual report and accounts provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable and the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the performance, business model and strategy of the Company.
For and on behalf of the Board Sarah Bates The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Chairman records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 25th March 2014 the financial position of the Company and enable them to JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
