Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the ninety-eighth Annual General Act to exercise all the powers for the Company to allot Meeting of JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc will be relevant securities within the meaning of Section 551 of the held at Holborn Bars, 138-142 Holborn, London EC1N 2NQ on Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,063,016, Wednesday, 7th May 2014 at 2.30 p. m. for the following representing approximately 15% of the Companys issued purposes: ordinary share capital as at the date of the passing of this resolution, provided that this authority shall expire at the 1.
To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company the Auditors Report for the year ended 31st December to be held in 2015 unless renewed at a general meeting 2013. prior to such time, save that the Company may before such 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy.
expiry make offers, agreements or arrangements which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted 3.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the after such expiry and so that the Directors of the Company year ended 31st December 2013. may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offers, 4.
To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares of agreements or arrangements as if the authority conferred 8.5 pence per share.
To reappoint Sarah Bates as a Chairman of the Company.
Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of relevant securities Special Resolution 6.
To reappoint Kate Bolsover as a Director of the Company.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 12 set out above, 7.
To reappoint Simon Bragg as a Director of the Company.
the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 570 and 573 of the Act to 8.
To reappoint Sir Alan Collins as a Director of the Company.
allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of 9.
To reappoint James Williams as a Director of the Company.
the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution12 or by way of a sale of Treasury shares as if 10.
To reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditors to the Company and Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate Special Business nominal amount of 2,063,016, representing approximately To consider the following resolutions: 15% of the issued ordinary share capital as at the date of the passing of this resolution at a price of not less than the Authority for Sub-division of existing ordinary shares Ordinary net asset value per share and shall expire upon the expiry Resolution of the general authority conferred by Resolution 12 above, 11.
THAT each of the issued ordinary shares of 25 pence each save that the Company may before such expiry make offers, in the capital of the Company be sub-divided into five or agreements which would or might require equity ordinary shares of 5 pence each the New Ordinary Shares securities to be allotted after such expiry and so that the having the rights and being subject to the restrictions and Directors of the Company may allot equity securities in obligations set out in the articles of association of the pursuant of such offers, or agreements as if the power Company, such sub-division to take effect from the date the conferred hereby had not expired.
New Ordinary Shares are admitted to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on the main market of Authority to repurchase the Companys shares for cancellation the London Stock Exchange.
THAT the Company be generally and subject as hereinafter Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution appears unconditionally authorised in accordance with 12.
THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make generally and unconditionally authorised, in substitution of market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of the any authorities previously granted to the Directors, Act of its issued shares in the capital of the Company pursuant to Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the ordinary shares.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 71 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the i the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to reverse of the proxy form.
be purchased shall be that number of shares which is 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint equal to 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital another person s who need not be a member of the Company 1 to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the as at the date of the passing of this resolution : meeting.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the ii the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall rights attaching to different shares held by him.
be the nominal value of the share: 2.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must iii the maximum price which may be paid for a share shall attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the Chairman, another director of the Company or another person who be an amount equal to the highest of: a 105% of the has agreed to attend to represent you.
Details of how to appoint average of the middle market quotations for a share the Chairman or another person s as your proxy or proxies using taken from and calculated by reference to the London the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
If the Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business voting box on the proxy form is left blank, the proxy or proxies will exercise his their discretion both as to how to vote and whether days immediately preceding the day on which the share he they abstain s from voting.
Your proxy must attend the is contracted to be purchased: or b the price of the last meeting for your vote to count.
Appointing a proxy or proxies does independent trade: or c the highest current not preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
independent bid: If you attend the Meeting in person, your proxy appointment will automatically be terminated.
iv any purchase of shares will be made in the market for 3.
Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in cash or prices below the prevailing net asset value per accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form.
share as determined by the Directors : 4.
You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments see v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on above also applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any 31st October 2015 unless the authority is renewed at the attempt to terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid Companys Annual General Meeting in 2015 or at any separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the other general meeting prior to such time: and same share in respect of the same meeting, the one which is last received regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be vi the Company may make or contract to purchase shares treated as replacing and revoking the other or others as regards under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry that share if the Company is unable to determine which was last of such authority and may make a purchase of shares received, none of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that share.
pursuant to any such contract notwithstanding such 5.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the expiry.
purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of 1 Following Resolution 14 becoming effective the maximum aggregate number of shares votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 8,246,565 shares which will equate to register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two business days prior to the 41,232,825 shares if Resolution 11 is passed or if less, 14.99% of the number of shares meeting the specified time.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time in issue immediately prior to the passing of the Resolution.
not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast By order of the Board at the adjourned meeting.
If however the meeting is adjourned for Alison Vincent, for and on behalf of a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two Secretary business days prior to the adjourned meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at the time specified in that 1st April 2014 notice changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
72 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Entry to the above Meeting will be restricted to shareholders and six clear weeks before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter their proxy or proxies, with guests admitted only by prior to be included in the business only must be accompanied by a arrangement.
statement setting out the grounds for the request.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons 7.
A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint individuals to act as its representatives and to vote in person at the meeting see who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated instructions given on the proxy form.
In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such representative Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a Nominated Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement between him and the member by whom he was company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person does not have designated corporate representative.
such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right Representatives should bring to the meeting evidence of their under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
the exercise of voting rights.
Members that satisfy the thresholds in Section 527 of the 12.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of statement on its website setting out any matter relating to: a the shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors report rights at the AGM, the total voting rights members are entitled to and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or exercise at the AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, b any circumstances connected with Auditors of the Company members resolutions or members matters of business received ceasing to hold office since the previous AGM, which the members by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the propose to raise at the Meeting.
The Company cannot require the Companys website www.
members requesting the publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the website must also be sent to the 13.
The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in Companys Auditors no later than the time it makes its statement the share capital of the Company and the Directors letters of available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at appointment are available for inspection at the Companys the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been registered office during usual business hours on any weekday required to publish on its website pursuant to this right.
Saturdays and public holidays excepted.
It will also be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company contract of service with the Company.
must cause to be answered at the AGM any question relating to the 14.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of business being dealt with at the AGM which is put by a member attending the Meeting except in certain circumstances, including if Meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the Meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of confidential 15.
As an alternative to completing a hard copy Form of Proxy Voting information.
Instruction Form, you can appoint a proxy or proxies electronically 10.
Under Sections 338 and 338A of the 2006 Act, members meeting by visiting www.
You will need your Voting ID, the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number this is the series of require the Company: i to give, to members of the Company numbers printed under your name on the Form of Proxy Voting entitled to receive notice of the Meeting, notice of a resolution Direction Form.
Alternatively, if you have already registered with which those members intend to move and which may properly be Equiniti Limiteds online portfolio service, Shareview, you can moved at the Meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be submit your Form of Proxy at www.
Full dealt with at the Meeting any matter other than a proposed instructions are given on both websites.
resolution which may properly be included in the business at the 16.
As at 24th March 2014 being the latest business day prior to the Meeting.
A resolution may properly be moved, or a matter properly publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital included in the business unless: a in the case of a resolution only consists of 55,013,782 shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of any the total voting rights in the Company are 55,013,782. inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
A request made pursuant to this right may be in hard Electronic appointment CREST members copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the request, must be authenticated by the person s making it and the CREST Manual.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
must be received by the Company not later than the date that is JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
