Glossary of Terms and Definitions Return to Shareholders discount is shown as a percentage of the NAV per share.
The Total return to the investor, on a mid-market price to opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more common for an mid-market price basis, assuming that all dividends received investment trusts shares to trade at a discount than at a were reinvested, without transaction costs, into the shares of premium.
the Company at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Portfolio Turnover Return on Net Assets Portfolio turnover is based on the average equity purchases Total return on net asset value NAV per share, on a bid and sales expressed as a percentage of average opening and value to bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out closing portfolio values.
by the Company were reinvested, into the shares of the Performance Attribution Company at the NAV per share at the time the shares were Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded quoted ex-dividend.
performance relative to its benchmark.
Benchmark Return Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market value to Performance Attribution Definitions: mid-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received Allocation Effect were reinvested, without transaction costs, into the shares of Measures the effect of allocating assets to sectors or asset the underlying companies at the time the shares were quoted types differently to the weighting in the benchmark.
Selection Effect The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or not be taken as wholly representative of the Companys lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of investment universe.
The Companys investment strategy does investing in securities which are excluded from the benchmark.
not track this index and consequently there may be some divergence between the Companys performance and that of Gearing Net Cash the benchmark.
Measures the impact of borrowings or cash balances on the Companys performance relative to its benchmark.
Actual Gearing Factor Investments excluding holdings in liquidity funds, expressed as Currency Hedge a percentage of net assets.
This shows the effect of gearing on Measures the effect on the Companys performance of a gain or the net asset value if the market value of the portfolio were to loss arising from the Companys hedging activities.
Management Fee Expenses Ongoing Charges The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of total The ongoing charges represent the Companys management assets and therefore has a negative effect on the Companys fee and all other operating expenses excluding finance costs relative performance.
payable, expressed as a percentage of the average of the daily Shares Issued net assets during the year and is calculated in accordance with The issue of shares at a price in excess of the net asset value guidance issued by the Association of Investment Companies.
per share, has a positive effect on the Companys relative Share Price Discount Premium to Net Asset Value NAV per Share performance.
If the share price of an investment trust is lower than the NAV per share, the shares are said to be trading at a discount.
The 74 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial Conduct Authority In association with: Beware of share fraud Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an upfront payment.
While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way you will probably lose your money.
Report a scam How to avoid share fraud 1 Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA 6 Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the are unlikely to contact you out of the blue with not have contact details on the Register or you FCA using the share fraud reporting form at an offer to buy or sell shares.
are told they are out of date.
uk scams, where you can find out more about investment scams.
2 Do not get into a conversation, note the name 7 Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at of the person and firm contacting you and then www.
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on end the call.
8 Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an 3 Check the Financial Services Register from unauthorised firm you will not have access to the If you have already paid money to share fraudsters www.
uk to see if the person and firm Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040. contacting you is authorised by the FCA.
9 4 Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an Think about getting independent financial and 5,000 people contact the Financial Conduct authorised firm, copying its website or giving professional advice before you hand over any you false contact details.
Authority about share fraud each year, with victims losing an average of 20,000 5 10 Use the firms contact details listed on the Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it Register if you want to call it back.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 75 Notes 76 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
