Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the twenty second Annual General allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry and so Meeting of JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc that the Directors of the Company may allot shares and will be held at Holborn Bars, 138-142 Holborn, London grant Rights in pursuance of such offers or agreements as EC1N 2NQ on Monday, 18th November 2013 at 3.00 p. m. for the if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
following purposes: Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of relevant 1.
To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and securities Special Resolution the Auditors Report for the year ended 30th June 2013.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 11 set out above, the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the empowered pursuant to Sections 570 to 573 of the Act to year ended 30th June 2013. allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of 3.
To approve a final dividend of 5.5p per share.
the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 11 or by way of a sale of Treasury shares as if 4.
To reappoint Sarah Arkle a Director of the Company.
Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such 5.
To reappoint David Gamble as a Director of the Company.
allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate 6.
To reappoint Anatole Kaletsky as a Director of the nominal amount of 1,491,285 representing approximately Company.
5% of the issued Ordinary share capital as at the date of the 7.
To reappoint Nigel Kenny as a Director of the Company.
passing of this resolution at a price of not less than the net asset value per share and shall expire upon the expiry of 8.
To reappoint Percy Mistry as a Director of the Company.
the general authority conferred by Resolution 11 above, 9.
To reappoint Alan Saunders as a Director of the Company.
save that the Company may before such expiry make offers or agreements which would or might require equity 10.
To reappoint  LLP as Auditors to securities to be allotted after such expiry and so that the the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine Directors of the Company may allot equity securities in their remuneration.
pursuant of such offers or agreements as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Special Business Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special Resolution To consider the following resolutions: 13.
THAT the Company be generally and, subject as hereinafter Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution appears, unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 of the Act to make market purchases within 11.
THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of its issued Ordinary generally and unconditionally authorised, in substitution of shares and Subscription shares on such terms and in such any authorities previously granted to the Directors, manner as the Directors may from time to time determine.
pursuant to and in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant i the maximum number of Ordinary shares and rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, Subscription shares hereby authorised to be purchased shares in the Company Rights up to an aggregate shall be 17,883,494 and 1,523,669 respectively, or if less, nominal amount of 1,491,285, representing approximately that number of Ordinary shares or Subscription shares 5% of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital as at the which is equal to 14.99% of the issued share capital of date of the passing of this resolution, provided that this the relevant share class as at the date of the passing of authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual this Resolution: General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2014 unless renewed at a general meeting prior to such time, save that ii the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary the Company may before such expiry make offers or share or Subscription share shall be 25 pence and agreements which would or might require shares to be 1 pence respectively: JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 59 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes iii the maximum price which may be paid for a share shall be an amount equal to the highest of: a 105% of the These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the reverse of the proxy form.
average of the middle market quotations for a share of 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint that class of share taken from and calculated by another person s who need not be a member of the Company to reference to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the List for the five business days immediately preceding Meeting.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the the day on which the share is contracted to be rights attaching to different shares held by him.
purchased: or b the price of the last independent 2.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must trade: or c the highest current independent bid: attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the Chairman, another Director of the Company or another person iv any purchase of shares will be made in the market for who has agreed to attend to represent you.
Details of how to cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per appoint the Chairman or another person s as your proxy or share as determined by the Directors : proxies using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
If a voting box on the proxy form is left blank, the proxy or v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 17th May proxies will exercise his their discretion both as to how to vote and 2015 unless the authority is renewed at the Companys whether he they abstain s from voting.
Your proxy must attend the Meeting for your vote to count.
Appointing a proxy or proxies Annual General Meeting in 2014 or at any other general does not preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting in meeting prior to such time: and person.
If you attend the Meeting in person, your proxy appointment will automatically be terminated.
vi the Company may make a contract to purchase shares 3.
Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form no later of such authority which contract will or may be than 3.00 p. m. two business days prior to the Meeting executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such i. e. excluding weekends and bank holidays.
authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant 4.
You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy to any such contract.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments also applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any attempt to Adoption of New Articles of Association Special Resolution terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the relevant deadline will be disregarded.
THAT the Articles of Association produced to the meeting separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same and initialled by the Chairman of the meeting for the share in respect of the same Meeting, the one which is last received purpose of identification be adopted as the Articles of regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be treated as Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the replacing and revoking the other or others as regards that share: if the Company is unable to determine which was last received, none exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association.
of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that share.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of By order of the Board votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two business days prior to the Meeting the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the Company Secretary original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and 11th October 2013 for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two business days prior to the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote at the Meeting or adjourned Meeting.
60 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Entry to the Meeting will be restricted to shareholders and their clear weeks before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be proxy or proxies, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
included in the business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint an individual s 11.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons to act as its representative s and to vote in person at the Meeting see instructions given on the proxy form.
In accordance with the who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such representative may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a Nominated Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement between him and the member by whom he was shares.
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a designated corporate representative.
nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person does not have Representatives should bring to the Meeting evidence of their such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to 8.
Members that satisfy the thresholds in Section 527 of the the exercise of voting rights.
Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a 12.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the statement on its website setting out any matter relating to: contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of a the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before rights at the AGM, the total voting rights members are entitled to the AGM: or b any circumstances connected with Auditors of exercise at the AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous AGM, members resolutions or members matters of business received which the members propose to raise at the Meeting.
The by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the Company cannot require the members requesting the Companys website www.
publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the website must also be sent to the Companys Auditors no later 13.
The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in than the time it makes its statement available on the website.
the share capital of the Company and the Directors letters of The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any appointment are available for inspection at the Companys statement that the Company has been required to publish on its registered office during usual business hours on any weekday website pursuant to this right.
Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted.
It will also be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has any contract of service with the Company.
must cause to be answered at the AGM any question relating to the 14.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of business being dealt with at the AGM which is put by a member attending the Meeting except in certain circumstances, including if Meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the Meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of confidential 15.
As an alternative to completing a hard copy Form of Proxy Voting information.
Instruction Form, you can appoint a proxy or proxies electronically 10.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the 2006 Act, members meeting by visiting www.
You will need your Voting ID, Task the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to ID and Shareholder Reference Number this is the series of require the Company: i to give, to members of the Company numbers printed under your name on the Form of Proxy Voting entitled to receive notice of the Meeting, notice of a resolution Direction Form.
Alternatively, if you have already registered with which those members intend to move and which may properly be Equiniti Limiteds online portfolio service, Shareview, you can moved at the Meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be submit your Form of Proxy at www.
Full dealt with at the Meeting any matter other than a proposed instructions are given on both websites.
resolution which may properly be included in the business at the 16.
As at 3rd October 2013 being the latest business day prior to the Meeting.
A resolution may properly be moved, or a matter properly publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital included in the business unless: a in the case of a resolution only consists of 122,198,951 Ordinary shares of which 2,896,122 shares it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of any are held in Treasury, carrying one vote each and 10,164,574 inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or Subscription shares with no voting rights.
Therefore the total otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is frivolous or voting rights in the Company are 119,302,829. vexatious.
A request made pursuant to this right may be in hard Electronic appointment CREST members copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the request, must be authenticated by the person s making it and the CREST Manual.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
must be received by the Company not later than the date that is six JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
