Glossary of Terms and Definitions Portfolio return Benchmark return Return on net assets, net of management fees and Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market value to administration expenses, but excluding both the effect of mid-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received Subscription shares which have been converted during the were reinvested in the shares of the underlying companies at year and the dilutive impact of Subscription shares in issue at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should Return to Ordinary shareholders Unit holders not be taken as wholly representative of the Companys investment universe.
The Companys investment strategy does Total return to the Ordinary shareholder, or Unit holder, on a not follow or track this index and consequently, there may be mid-market price to mid-market price basis, assuming that all some divergence between the Companys performance and dividends received were reinvested, without transaction costs, that of the benchmark.
in the Ordinary shares of the Company at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Gearing Net Cash Diluted net asset value NAV per Ordinary share Gearing represents the excess amount above shareholders funds of total assets less cash cash equivalents, expressed as a The NAV per Ordinary share assuming that all outstanding percentage of the shareholders funds.
If the amount calculated Subscription shares were converted into Ordinary shares at the is negative, this is shown as a net cash position.
Ongoing charges Diluted return on net assets The ongoing charges represents the Companys management Return on the diluted net asset value NAV per share, on a bid fee and all other operating expenses excluding interest and value to bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out performance fee payable, expressed as a percentage of the by the Company were reinvested in the shares of the Company average of the daily net assets during the year and is calculated at the NAV per share at the time the shares were quoted in accordance with guidance issued by the Association of ex-dividend.
In accordance with industry practice, dividends payable which have been declared but which are unpaid at the balance sheet Share price discount premium to net asset value NAV date are deducted from the diluted NAV per share when If the share price of an investment trust is lower than the NAV calculating the diluted return on net assets.
per share, the Companys shares are said to be trading at a discount.
The discount is shown as a percentage of the NAV Undiluted return on net assets per share.
The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more Return on the undiluted net asset value NAV per share, on a common for an investment trusts shares to trade at a discount bid value to bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid than at a premium.
out by the Company were reinvested in the shares of the Company at the NAV per share at the time the shares were Performance attribution quoted ex-dividend.
Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded In accordance with industry practice, dividends payable which performance relative to its benchmark.
have been declared but which are unpaid at the balance sheet date are deducted from the undiluted NAV per share when calculating the undiluted return on net assets.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 67 Glossary of Terms and Definitions continued Performance attribution definitions: Performance fee The Company may be required to make provision for a Asset allocation performance fee payable under the terms of the performance Measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those in fee agreement.
This will reduce the Companys net assets and the benchmark, via the portfolios weighting in different therefore have a negative effect on relative performance.
countries, sectors or asset types.
Exercise of Subscription shares Stock selection Measures the negative impact on the net asset value NAV per Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or share arising from the exercise of Subscription shares into lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of Ordinary shares at a price less than the NAV per share.
investing in securities which are not included in the benchmark.
Subscription share dilution Measures the dilutive impact on the net asset value NAV per Gearing cash share arising from the potential exercise of all the outstanding Measures the impact on returns of borrowings or cash Subscription shares into Ordinary shares at a price less than balances on the Companys relative performance.
Currency Measures the impact of currency exposure differences between the Companys portfolio and its benchmark.
Management fee other expenses The payment of fees and expenses reduces the Companys net assets and therefore has a negative effect on relative performance.
Warning to shareholders Boiler Room Scams In recent years, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have been targeted by unauthorised overseas-based brokers selling what turn out to be non-existent or high risk shares, or expressing a wish to buy their shares.
If you receive unsolicited investment advice or requests: Make sure you get the correct name of the person or organisation Check that they are properly authorised by the FCA before getting involved by visiting www.
uk consumers Report the matter to the FCA by calling 0800 111 6768 If the calls persist, hang up.
More detailed information on this can be found on the Money Advice Service website www.
uk 68 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
