Notice of Separate General Meeting notarially certified copy thereof must be deposited with the Notice is hereby given that a separate General Meeting of the Companys Registrars, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer holders of Subscription shares of 1p each in the capital of the Road, West Sussex BN99 6DA, as soon as possible and, in any Company Subscription shares will be held at Holborn Bars, event, by no later than 3.20 p. m. on Thursday, 14th November 138-142 Holborn, London EC1N 2NQ commencing at 3.20 p. m. 2013.
Amended instructions must also be received by the Companys Registrars by the deadline for receipt of Forms of on Monday, 18th November 2013 or, if later, as soon as Proxy.
As an alternative to completing a hard copy Form of Proxy, reasonably practicable following the conclusion or you can appoint a proxy or proxies electronically by visiting adjournment of the annual general meeting of the Company www.
You will need your Voting ID, Task ID and convened for the same day and place for the purpose of Shareholder Reference Number this is the series of numbers printed on the [YELLOW] Form of Proxy.
Alternatively, if you considering and, if thought fit, passing the following resolution, have already registered with Equiniti Limiteds online portfolio which will be proposed as a special resolution, namely: service, Shareview, you can submit your Form of Proxy at www.
Full instructions are given on both websites.
Special Resolution Completion and return of a Form of Proxy including online will not preclude an Ordinary shareholder from attending and voting at Adoption of new articles of association the meeting if he or she wishes to do so.
3 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities THAT this meeting of the holders of Subscription shares hereby Regulations 2001 SI 2001 3755 the CREST Regulations, the sanctions and consents to every alteration, modification, Company has specified that only those Subscription shareholders variation or abrogation of the special rights, privileges and entered on the register of members of the Company as at 6.00 p. m. restrictions attaching to the Subscription shares to be effected on Thursday, 14th November 2013 or, if the meeting is adjourned, on the register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two business days prior by the passing and implementation of resolution 14 of the to the adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend and vote at the Company set out in the notice of annual general meeting of the meeting in respect of the number of Subscription shares registered Company contained in the annual report of the Company dated in their name at that time.
Changes to the register of members 11th October 2013, a copy of which marked A signed by the after 6.00 p. m. on Thursday, 14th November 2013 or, if the meeting is adjourned, after 6.00 p. m. two business days prior to the chairman of the meeting for the purpose of identification is adjourned meeting will be disregarded in determining the rights of produced to the meeting.
any person to attend and vote at the meeting or adjourned meeting as the case may be.
By order of the Board 4 In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior holder who JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, tenders a vote whether in person or by proxy shall be accepted to Company Secretary the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which the 11th October 2013 names stand in the register of members of the Company in respect of the relevant joint holding.
Notes: These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the 5 Holders of Subscription shares held through the Plans are entitled reverse of the [YELLOW] Form of Proxy.
to attend and vote at the meeting if the [LILAC] Voting Direction 1 Only holders of Subscription shares are entitled to attend and vote Form, which is enclosed with this document, is correctly completed at the meeting.
Holders of Ordinary shares are not entitled to and returned in accordance with the instructions printed thereon.
attend and vote at the meeting unless they also hold Subscription 6 Any person receiving a copy of this Notice as a person nominated shares.
A Subscription shareholder may appoint one or more by a member to enjoy information rights under section 146 proxies to exercise all or any of the rights of the member to attend Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person should note that the and speak and vote in his place.
A proxy need not be a member of provisions in Notes 1 and 2 above concerning the appointment of a the Company.
A Subscription shareholder may appoint more than proxy or proxies to attend the meeting in place of a member, do one proxy provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the not apply to a Nominated Person, as only shareholders have the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
However, a Nominated Person may have a If a Subscription shareholder wishes to appoint more than one right under an agreement between the Nominated Person and the proxy and so requires additional proxy forms, the shareholder member by whom he or she was nominated to be appointed, or to should contact the Companys Registrars, Equiniti Limited, Aspect have someone else appointed, as a proxy for the meeting.
If a House, Spencer Road, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does 2 A [YELLOW] Form of Proxy is enclosed for use by Subscription not wish to exercise it, he she may have a right under such an shareholders.
To be valid, the Form of Proxy and any power of agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a voting rights at the meeting.
62 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 7 Nominated persons should also remember that their main point of contact in terms of their investment in the Company remains the member who nominated the Nominated Person to enjoy information rights or perhaps the custodian or broker who administers the investment on their behalf.
Nominated Persons should continue to contact that member, custodian or broker and not the Company regarding any changes or queries relating to the Nominated Persons personal details and interest in the Company including any administrative matter.
The only exception to this is where the Company expressly requests a response from a Nominated Person.
8 As at 3rd October 2013, being the last business day prior to the printing of this Notice, the Companys issued Subscription share capital consisted of 10,164,574 Subscription shares carrying one vote each at separate class meetings of the Subscription shareholders.
9 Terms used in this notice shall have the same meaning as in the Companys annual report dated 11th October 2013 unless otherwise defined.
10 In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the contents of this notice of General Meeting, details of the total number of shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the General Meeting, the total voting rights members are entitled to exercise at the General Meeting and, if applicable, any members statements, members resolutions or members matters of business received by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the Companys website www.
co. uk 11 Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company must cause to be answered at the General Meeting any question relating to the business being dealt with at the General Meeting which is put by a member attending the General Meeting except in certain circumstances, including if it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the General Meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of confidential information.
12 You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of General Meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
