Cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements This Annual Report and Accounts contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to BTGs business, performance and prospects.
Statements and other information included in this report that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements.
Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates and potential, variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current expectations and involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend upon circumstances which may or may not occur in the future.
There are a number of factors which could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
Current principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages 32 to 35 of this report.
Any of the assumptions underlying these forward-looking statements could prove inaccurate or incorrect and therefore any results contemplated in the forward-looking statements may not actually be achieved.
BTG undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Trade marks BTG and the BTG roundel logo are registered trade marks of BTG International Ltd.
The following is a non-exhaustive list of trade marks of the BTG International group of companies mentioned in this Report: Bead Block CroFab DC Bead DigiFab LC Bead PARAGON Bead PRECISION Bead Varisolve Voraxaze Zytiga is registered trade mark of Johnson & Johnson, Inc. BeneFIX is a registered trade mark of Genetics Institute, now part of Pfizer, Inc. Lemtrada is a proprietary name submitted to health authorities for Genzyme Corporations investigational multiple sclerosis agent alemtuzumab.
Genzyme Corporation is a Sanofi company.
Financials 144 Cautionary note and Trade marks BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Printed in the UK using vegetable inks throughout.
Both the printer and the paper manufacturing mill are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO 14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain-of-custody certified.
Designed and produced by Bostock and Pollitt Limited, London Printed by Pureprint Group UK BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.
com Please refer to our website for more information on BTG and for our contact details.
