Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 General information BTG plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2013 comprise the results of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in associates.
The financial statements were approved for issue by the Board on 17 May 2013.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Groups accounting policies as approved by the Board and described below.
Accounting standards adopted in the year No accounting standards adopted in the year have had a significant impact upon the financial statements.
Other accounting standards adopted in the year Other amendments and standards have been adopted, but have had no significant effect on the reported results or financial position of the Group.
Accounting standards issued but not yet effective IAS 19 Amended : Employee benefits changes a number of disclosure requirements for post employment arrangements and restricts the options currently available on how to account for defined benefit pension plans.
The amendment requires the expected returns on pension plan assets, currently calculated based on managements estimate of expected returns, to be replaced by a gain on the pension plan assets calculated at the liability discount rate.
In future years, this change is expected to result in a decrease in finance income on pension scheme assets, recognised in the income statement, and an equal and opposite increase in the actual returns less expected returns on pension scheme assets credited to other comprehensive income.
The Group does not expect this change to impact the Groups net assets.
The amendment also removes the option to include an expense reserve in pension scheme liabilities.
This change is expected to result in a one-off credit to other comprehensive income, a one-off credit to opening reserves and a corresponding increase in net assets in the 2013 comparatives disclosed in the financial statement for the year ending 31 March 2014, to release the expense reserves previously recognised within pension scheme liabilities as detailed in note 22.
The amendment to IAS 19 is effective from 1 January 2013 and will be adopted by the Group in the accounting year beginning 1 April 2013.
All other standards and interpretations recently adopted by the EU not discussed above did not have or are not expected to have a significant impact on the Group.
Going concern basis After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
This conclusion has been reached having considered the effect of liquidity risk on the Groups ability to operate effectively.
Currently, liquidity risk is not considered a significant business risk to the Group given its level of net cash and cash flow projections.
The Group does not currently require significant levels of debt financing to operate its business.
Further details of the Groups policies and objectives around liquidity risk are given in note 26 to the Accounts and are discussed in the business review on pages 17 to 26.
The key liquidity risks faced by the Group are considered to be the failure of banks where funds are deposited and the failure of key licensees, distribution partners, wholesalers or insurers.
In addition to the liquidity risks considered above, the directors have also considered the following factors when reaching the conclusion to continue to adopt the going concern basis: I The Groups principal licensees are global industry leaders in their respective fields and the Groups royalty-generating intellectual property consists of a broad portfolio of licensees.
I The Group does not have a significant exposure to the Eurozone.
Financials 91 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 General information continued I The Groups marketed products are life-saving in nature, providing some protection against an uncertain economic outlook.
I The Group remains in a cash generative position for the year with cash and cash equivalents totalling 158.7m as at 31March 2013.
I Subsequent to the year end, the Group signed a 60m multi-currency revolving credit facility providing access to funds for a period of three years to 30 April 2016.
Acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs The consolidated income statement includes a separate column to disclose significant acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs arising on corporate acquisitions.
Adjustments relate to the acquisitions of: I Biocompatibles International plc on 27 January 2011.
The costs relate to the following: I The release of the fair value uplift of inventory acquired.
I Amortisation and impairment arising on intangible assets acquired.
I Transaction costs incurred with professional advisers in relation to the completion of the acquisition.
I Reorganisation costs comprising acquisition related redundancy programmes, property costs, and asset impairments.
I Fair value adjustments to contingent consideration on corporate acquisitions.
2 Significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all years presented unless otherwise stated.
a Basis of accounting and preparation of financial statements The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
The consolidated financial statements also comply fully with IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The Group financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest 0.1m except where otherwise indicated and have been prepared on the historical cost basis modified to include revaluation to fair value of certain financial instruments and business combination assets as set out below.
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Judgements made by the directors in the application of these accounting policies that have significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 3. b Basis of consolidation i Subsidiary undertakings Subsidiary undertakings are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiary undertakings are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups proportionate share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates on an equity-accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds the carrying value of its interest in an associate, the Groups carrying amount is reduced to nil and no further losses are recognised except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an associate.
Financials 92 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials 2 Significant accounting policies continued iii Acquisition accounting The purchase method is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed are measured initially at their fair values on the date of acquisition, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable net assets, including intangible assets acquired, is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the Groups share of net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
iv Merger reserve A merger reserve is used where more than 90% of the shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration includes the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby attracting merger relief under s612 and s613 of the Companies Act 2006. v Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations.
vi Fair value reserve The fair value reserve includes the cumulative net change in the fair value of available-for-sale investments.
If an investment suffers impairment due to a prolonged or significant decline in the fair value below acquisition cost, its share of the reserve is recycled to the income statement and any further declines in fair value of that investment are no longer charged to the reserve but immediately taken to the income statement.
vii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
c Operating segments An operating segment is defined as a component of the Group i that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses: ii whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the Groups chief operating decision maker the Leadership Team to make resource allocation decisions and monitor its performance: and iii for which discrete financial information is available.
d Foreign currency i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
Exchange gains losses on retranslation of foreign currency transactions and balances within trading intercompany balances are recognised in the income statement within Operating expenses.
ii Financial statements of foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated into sterling at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at rates approximating to the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in the translation reserve.
Financials 93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued iii Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations are taken to the translation reserve.
They are released into the income statement upon disposal of the investment.
e Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value and are designated as being measured at fair value through the income statement on inception.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement through Financial income or Financial expense as appropriate.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward price.
f Goodwill All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
Goodwill represents amounts arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and associates.
In respect of business combinations that have occurred since 1April2004, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the identifiable assets, including intangible assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is tested annually for impairment see 2 m. In respect of associates, the carrying value of goodwill is included in the carrying value of the investment in the associate.
g Intangible assets i Initial recognition Intangible assets acquired as a result of a business combination are initially recognised at their fair value in accordance with IFRS3 Business Combinations.
Other intangible assets are initially recognised at cost.
Cost includes the cost of obtaining patent protection for intellectual property rights, the cost of acquisition of patents and the costs of the internal patent attorney specific to obtaining the initial grant of a patent.
Income from patents is derived through licensing and other agreements.
ii Amortisation Intangible assets are amortised in a manner calculated to write off the cost, on a straight-line basis, over the effective life of the asset.
In determining the appropriate life of the asset, consideration is given to the expected cash generating life of the asset or remaining patent life if different.
The effective life of each class of asset is determined as follows: I Developed technology: expected cash-generating life, taking into account specific product and market characteristics for each developed technology.
I Contractual relationships: period to expiry of the contract.
I In-process research and development: amortisation is not charged until the asset is generating an economic return, at which point the effective life is assessed by reference to the remaining patent life.
I Computer software: the shorter of the licence period and three years.
I Patents: period to patent expiry.
I Purchase of contractual rights: period to expiry of the contract.
In the event that an intangible asset is no longer used or a patent is abandoned, the balance of unamortised expenditure is written off immediately.
The following useful economic lives are applied: Developed technology 2 to 25 years Contractual relationships 2 to 15 years In-process research and development 12 to 25 years Computer software 3 years Patents 20 years Purchase of contractual rights 2 to 10 years Financials 94 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials 2 Significant accounting policies continued iii Income statement disclosure Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets is included within Operating expenses in the income statement.
iv Subsequent expenditure Expenditure subsequent to the initial acquisition of intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
v Impairment If an intangible asset is considered to have suffered impairment in value it is written down to its estimated recoverable amount in accordance with the Groups policy on impairment see note 2 m. h Property, plant and equipment i Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses see note 2 m. ii Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis to write assets down to their residual value using the following useful economics lives: Buildings and improvements 10 to 20 years Leasehold improvements 2 to 10 years Plant and machinery 3 to 15 years Furniture and equipment 2 to 15 years Motor vehicles 5 years Computer hardware 3 to 5 years Depreciation is not charged until the asset is brought into use.
The residual value is reassessed annually.
iii Income statement disclosure Depreciation and impairment of tangible fixed assets is included within Operating expenses in the income statement.
Profits and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with the carrying amount.
These are included in profit loss on sale of tangible assets in the income statement.
iv Subsequent expenditure Expenditure subsequent to the initial acquisition of a tangible fixed asset is capitalised only when it is probable that the Group will realise future economic benefits from the asset.
v Impairment If a tangible asset is considered to have suffered impairment in value it is written down to its estimated recoverable amount in accordance with the Groups policy on impairment see note 2 m. i Investments Investments in debt and equity securities held by the Group, classified as being available-for-sale, are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss being recognised directly in equity, except for impairment losses and, in the case of monetary items such as debt securities, foreign exchange gains and losses which are taken to the income statement.
When these investments are no longer recognised as assets, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised directly in equity is recognised in the income statement.
Where these investments are interest-bearing, interest calculated using the effective interest method is recognised in the income statement.
Financials 95 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued j Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The first in, first out method of valuation is used.
Cost comprises materials, direct labour and a share of production overheads appropriate to the relevant stage of production.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving or defective items where appropriate.
Net realisable value is determined at the balance sheet date on commercially saleable products based on estimated selling price less all further costs to completion and all relevant marketing, selling and distribution costs.
Inventories relating to research and development projects are fully written down in the income statement unless the Group considers it probable to realise economic value from their sale or use.
If the circumstances that previously caused these inventories to be written down below cost subsequently change and there is clear evidence of an increase in realisable value, the write down is reversed.
k Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables do not carry interest and are stated at amortised cost less impairment losses see 2 m. l Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management and for which the Group has a legal right of set-off are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Cash deposits with a maturity of greater than three months are classified as held to maturity financial assets.
m Impairment Impairment testing is performed for all assets when there is an indicator of impairment.
In addition, for goodwill and unamortised intangible assets, impairment testing is performed both in the year of acquisition and annually at each balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Other specific categories of asset are treated as follows: i Equity investments Impairment is deemed to arise when there is a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the equity instrument.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
ii Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are subject to impairment testing at each balance sheet date and whenever there are events that indicate that an impairment may have occurred.
An impairment loss is recognised if an assets carrying amount exceeds the greater of its value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
iii Amortised intangible assets Amortised intangible assets are also tested for impairment whenever there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Intangible assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
Any impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement.
When assessing the recoverable amount of an intangible asset the Group uses a risk adjusted discounted cash flow model.
iv Available-for-sale assets When a decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale asset has been recognised directly in equity and there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that had been recognised directly in equity is recognised in the income statement.
The amount of the cumulative loss that is recognised in the income statement is the difference between the acquisition cost and current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement.
An impairment loss in respect of an investment in an equity instrument classified as available-for-sale is not reversed through the income statement.
If the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the impairment loss shall be reversed, with the amount of the reversal recognised in the income statement.
Financials 96 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials 2 Significant accounting policies continued n Government grants Government grants towards staff retraining costs are recognised as income over the periods in which the related costs are incurred and are deducted in reporting the related expense.
Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to the income statement over the useful lives of the assets concerned.
o Employee benefits i Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with in the same manner as payments to defined contribution plans where the Groups obligations under the plans are equivalent to a defined contribution retirement benefit plan.
The funds of the schemes are independent of the Groups finances.
ii Defined benefit plan For the Groups defined benefit pension plan, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Allowance is made in the assessment of the defined benefit obligation for future costs of administering the scheme.
The assumptions used to determine the valuation are shown in note 22.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised outside the income statement and presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits have already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation, reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
The retirement benefit obligation includes an allowance for future administrative costs of running the scheme.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
Assets of the pension scheme are held separately from the Groups assets.
iii Share-based payments In accordance with the transition provisions of IFRS1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS2 Share-based Payment has been applied to all share-based grants made to employees after 7 November 2002 that had not vested as of 1 January 2005.
The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company, subject to certain criteria.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an expense of employment in the income statement with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at the date of grant and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using a binomial lattice model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense in any year is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest.
However if share options fail to vest due to share prices not achieving the designated performance threshold for vesting, no such adjustment takes place.
p Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
A charge for reorganisation costs is taken to the income statement when the Group has approved a detailed and formal reorganisation plan, and the reorganisation has either commenced or the Group has a constructive obligation, for example having made an announcement publicly to the employee or the Group as a whole.
Financials 97 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued q Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are not interest bearing and are stated at amortised cost except for the contingent value note which is recognised at fair value.
r Revenue recognition Revenue represents amounts received or receivable in respect of the sale of marketed products to customers during the year, net of trade discounts given and value added tax, and in respect of royalty arrangements.
A description of the various elements of revenue and the associated accounting policies is given below: i Marketed Products The Group recognises revenue for marketed product sales when each condition of IAS18, paragraph 14 is wholly-satisfied.
Where sales arrangements specify a second element of revenue contingent upon a specified event, this revenue is not recognised until this event has occurred and it is certain that the economic benefit triggered by this event will flow to the Group.
In cases where product is sold to a customer with a right of replacement, the Group views the transaction as a multi-element arrangement and a portion of the value from the sale is deferred and allocated to the replacement right based on the fair value of the replacement right.
Revenue is recognised net of any trade discounts that may be given from time-to-time.
ii Royalties Revenues from the Groups licensed programmes are generated following the grant of a licence to a third-party to undertake additional development and commercialisation of a research and development programme or other intellectual property rights.
In addition to an upfront payment, BTG may be entitled to additional revenues such as milestone payments or royalties on revenues generated by the licensee.
Revenues associated with royalty arrangements may in turn be linked to additional obligations on BTG.
These revenues are accounted for inline with IAS18 as follows: Upfront and milestone payments Non-refundable upfront and milestone payments are recognised as the earnings process is completed.
This may result in full recognition in the year in which the income is received.
However, where the Group has ongoing performance obligations such as the delivery of products or services, upfront payments are deferred over the period in which these obligations are satisfied.
Associated costs of performance obligations are expensed in the period to which they relate.
In determining the performance obligations under the contract, consideration is given as to whether elements of the obligations meet the criteria for separate accounting.
The Group applies the substantive milestone method in accounting for subsequent milestone payments.
Milestone payments that are considered substantive are recognised into income in the year in which they are received.
Milestones that do not satisfy the criteria to be considered as substantive are amortised over the remaining period in which the Group expects to fulfil its performance obligations under the agreement.
The Group considers the following when assessing whether a milestone is considered substantive: I Are the milestone payments non-refundable?
I Does the achievement of the milestone involve a degree of risk that was not reasonably assured at the inception of the arrangement?
I Is substantive effort involved in achieving the milestone?
I Is the amount of the milestone payment reasonable in relation to the effort expended or the risk associated with the achievement of the milestone?
I How does the time that passes between the payments compare to the effort required to reach the milestone?
Outlicensed product royalties Royalty income is generated by sales of products incorporating the Groups proprietary technology.
Royalty revenues are recognised once the amounts due can be reliably estimated based on the sale of underlying products and recoverability is assured.
Where there is insufficient historical data on sales and returns to fulfil these requirements, for example in the case of a new product, the royalty revenue will not be recognised until the Group can reliably estimate the underlying sales.
iii Sales assignments of IPR Outright sales or assignments of IPR are treated as disposals of non-current assets.
Financials 98 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials 2 Significant accounting policies continued iv Revenues received in relation to development programmes Revenue received in relation to development programmes is recognised based on the percentage of completion of the programme.
Where payments may be earned in such programmes based on the achievement of uncertain milestones, revenue is restricted to the cumulative cash receivable for the programme.
s Research and development Research and development expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Expenditure incurred on development projects relating to the design and testing of new or improved products is recognised as intangible assets when it is probable that the project will generate future economic benefit, considering factors including its commercial and technological feasibility, status of regulatory approval, and the ability to measure costs reliably.
Other development expenditures are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Development expenditure previously recognised as an expense is not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.
Development expenditure that has a finite useful life and which has been capitalised is amortised from the commencement of the commercial production of the product on a straight-line basis over the period of its expected benefit.
No development expenditure has been capitalised in either the current or prior year.
Property, plant and equipment used for research and development is depreciated in accordance with the Groups policy and the cost is included within Research and development in the income statement.
t Cost of sales Cost of sales includes the direct costs incurred in manufacturing and bringing products to sale in the market and revenue sharing costs.
Revenue sharing costs represent amounts due under royalty arrangements to licensors or assignees of technology and similar directly attributable items.
Amounts are recognised upon recognition by the Group of amounts due from a licensee.
They are recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the individual agreements relating to the relevant technology, inline with revenue recognition.
u Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Such assets are depreciated over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the length of the lease.
Assets purchased under hire purchase agreements are accounted for similarly, except that these assets are depreciated over their estimated useful lives.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease within the appropriate functional expenditure heading.
v Net financial income expense Net financial income expense comprises interest income less interest payable during the year, calculated using the effective interest rate method, and fair value adjustments relating to foreign exchange forward contracts, contingent considerations payable upon corporate and non-corporate acquisitions and borrowings.
w Tax Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Financials 99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying value of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, where it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying value of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
x BTG Employee Share Trust Included within the Groups financial results are those of the BTG Employee Share Trust, the costs of which are expensed within the financial statements of the Trust as incurred.
In the Company accounts the cost of BTG shares held by the Trust is deducted from shareholders funds.
y Financial guarantees Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contracts as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
z Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate.
aa Biological assets Biological assets are recognised when the asset is controlled by the Group and it is probable future economic benefit will a rise from activities associated with the asset.
Biological assets are measured at fair value less estimated point-of-sale costs.
Any gains or losses in fair value are recognised in the income statement.
3 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Critical accounting judgements In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, described in note 2, management and the Audit Committee discussed and agreed the selection, application and disclosure of the Groups critical accounting policies and the estimates used in the preparation of the accounts.
Revenue recognition As described in note 2, it is the Groups policy to recognise non-refundable upfront payments over the period in which any performance obligations are satisfied.
On 4 December 2008, the Group acquired Protherics which had received 16.3m from AstraZeneca UK Ltd in a Patent and Know How Licence Agreement for AZD9773 CytoFab.
The Group considered that its obligations under the licence agreement consisted of the licence, provision of development services, regulatory support and steering committee participation.
The Group considered that the development services and the regulatory support it could supply would cease with the approval of AZD9773 by the FDA and while the steering committee would have continued to operate after product approval by the FDA, the Group had received confirmation that its participation after this date would become voluntary.
Based on the clinical development plan to be undertaken by AstraZeneca, the Group currently estimated that its performance under the agreement would be completed over the period to 31 December 2015 and, therefore, was recognising the 16.3m on a straight-line basis, over the estimated performance period.
Financials 100 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials 3 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued As detailed in note 29, on 8 August 2012 BTG announced the top-line data form a Phase IIb study of AZD9773 in patients with severe sepsis and or septic shock, conducted by AstraZeneca.
The study failed to meet primary or secondary endpoints.
AstraZeneca has terminated its licence agreement and associated arrangement with BTG and has handed back the asset to BTG.
BTG does not anticipate conducting any further development of AZD9773.
Consequently revenue of 8.6m has been recognised within milestones and one-off income in the Licensing & Biotechnology operating segment.
The components of this revenue are: I The release of the deferred income associated with previous received milestones from AstraZeneca in relation to AZD9773 work streams totalling 6.1m.
I Compensation for early contract termination of 2.5m.
In determining the revenue recognition period, management considered the detailed criteria for the recognition of revenue per IAS18, Revenue, and is satisfied that all requirements have been met by the Group.
Acquisitions Judgements have been made in respect of the identification of intangible assets made on acquisitions based on pre-acquisition forecasts, analysis and negotiations.
In addition to the judgements and estimates made in establishing the intangible assets acquired and their value, in certain instances these assets are in development and are only amortised once the development phase has been completed, although these assets are subjected to impairment review in accordance with the accounting policy described in note 2 m. In addition to significant fair value adjustments in relation to intangible assets, the Group has recognised other fair value adjustments on assets and liabilities acquired.
Each adjustment has been calculated inline with the requirements of IFRS3 revised.
The most significant of these relate to: I Inventory: where inventory acquired has been uplifted in value to be held at estimated selling price less costs to complete, costs of disposal and a reasonable profit allowance.
I Deferred tax: where estimates of deferred tax liabilities arising on acquired intangible assets have been recognised.
Where appropriate an associated deferred tax asset, representing managements estimation of the value of tax losses that would be available to the Group to offset the deferred tax liability see below, has also been recognised.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles Determining whether goodwill and other intangibles are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill or other intangible assets have been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires estimation of future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
There is a risk of a material adverse impact on the income statement should an impairment adjustment be required to be reflected in the financial statements.
See note 2 m for further details.
Fair value of listed and unlisted investments Note 15 explains the basis for estimating the fair value of listed and unlisted investments.
Pension assumptions Note 22 details the key actuarial assumptions used to establish the pension funding position.
These represent managements best estimates and are chosen based on historic experience and future expectations.
Should the discount rate used to establish scheme liabilities or the long-term expected rate of return on investment vary significantly then the pension fund valuation would be impacted.
Deferred tax The Group has significant deferred tax assets principally in relation to tax losses.
The assets have been recognised on the basis that management estimates demonstrate that it is more likely than not that future taxable profit will arise in the jurisdictions in which the losses are available.
If actual events differ from managements estimates or the estimates are changed in the future this could have a significant effect on the balance sheet net asset position of the Group.
In recognising deferred tax assets and liabilities, management has taken into account expected changes in tax rates in each relevant jurisdiction.
Financials 101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 4 Operating segments Following the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc on 27 January 2011, the Group aligned behind three reportable segments, being Specialty Pharmaceuticals, Interventional Medicine and Licensing & Biotechnology.
In assessing performance and making resource allocation decisions, the Leadership Team which is BTGs chief operating decision-making body reviews Contribution by segment.
Contribution is defined as being gross profit less directly attributable selling, general and administrative costs SG&A.
The Licensing & Biotechnology operating segment includes SG&A relating to the Groups centrally managed support functions and corporate overheads.
This reflects the management structure and stewardship of the business.
No allocation of central overheads is made across the Specialty Pharmaceuticals or Interventional Medicine operating segments.
Research and development continues to be managed on a global basis, with investment decisions being made by the Leadership Team as a whole.
It is not managed by reference to the Groups operating segments, though each programme within the pipeline would ultimately provide revenues for one of the operating segments if successful.
There are no inter-segment transactions that are required to be eliminated on consolidation.
Year ended 31 March 2013 Specialty Interventional Licensing & Pharmaceuticals Medicine Biotechnology Total m m m m Revenue 97.2 36.1 100.4 233.7 Cost of sales 21.6 5.6 40.0 67.2 Gross profit 75.6 30.5 60.4 166.5 Selling, general and administrative expenses 20.2 17.5 20.3 58.0 Contribution 55.4 13.0 40.1 108.5 Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles assets 43.4 Foreign exchange gains 3.1 Research and development 41.2 Amounts written off property, plant and equipment 1.8 Profit on disposal of intangible assets and investments 0.4 Acquisition and reorganisation costs 0.1 Operating profit 25.7 Financial income 1.1 Financial expense 2.7 Profit before tax 24.1 Tax 7.7 Profit for the year 16.4 Unallocated assets 539.3 Financials 102 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials 4 Operating segments continued Year ended 31 March 2012 Specialty Interventional Licensing & Pharmaceuticals Medicine Biotechnology Total m m m m Revenue 76.7 28.7 91.6 197.0 1 Cost of sales 18.7 8.6 29.0 56.3 Gross profit 58.0 20.1 62.6 140.7 Selling, general and administrative expenses 18.6 13.3 17.0 48.9 Contribution 39.4 6.8 45.6 91.8 Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles assets 30.7 Foreign exchange gains 2.6 Research and development 39.7 Amounts written off property, plant and equipment 3.0 Profit on disposal of intangible assets and investments 0.2 Acquisition and reorganisation costs 1.1 Amounts written off investments 0.2 Operating profit 19.9 Financial income 4.7 Financial expense 1.6 Profit before tax 23.0 Tax 8.4 Profit for the year 14.6 Unallocated assets 505.8 1 2012 includes a 2.1m release of the fair value uplift of inventory purchased on the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc on 27 January 2011 within the Interventional Medicine segment representing the reversal of a fair value uplift applied to inventory purchased on acquisition recognised through the income statement when the product was sold.
Revenue analysis Analysis of revenue, based on the geographical location of customers and the source of revenue is provided below: Geographical analysis Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 m m USA 202.8 168.1 UK 21.2 10.0 Europe excluding UK 5.3 15.1 Other regions 4.4 3.8 233.7 197.0 Financials 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 4 Operating segments continued Revenue from major products and services Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 m m Product sales 134.3 106.7 Royalties 90.8 79.2 Other 8.6 11.1 233.7 197.0 Major customers Products that utilise the Groups intellectual property rights are sold by licensees.
Royalty income is derived from over 70 licences.
One licence individually generated royalty income in excess of 10% of Group revenue of 49.9m 2012: Two licences generated 29.4m and 24.4m respectively.
The Groups marketed products are sold both directly and through distribution agreements in the USA, Europe and Asia Pacific region.
Two customers individually generated income in excess of 10% of Group revenue, being 25.2m and 24.8m respectively 2012: Two customers generated 22.3m and 21.9m respectively.
5 Acquisition and reorganisation costs Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 m m BTG plc and Biocompatibles International plc costs 0.1 1.1 The Group considers acquisition and reorganisation costs to include transaction costs of completing the acquisition and those costs resulting directly from decisions to rationalise operating sites and business operations.
6 Operating profit Operating profit has been arrived at after charging crediting : Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 Note m m Depreciation and other amounts written off property, plant and equipment 14 4.9 6.2 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 13 45.1 31.9 Amounts written off investments 0.2 Net foreign exchange gains 3.1 2.6 Research and development expenses 41.2 39.7 Staff costs 7 49.8 40.6 Operating lease rentals payable on property 1.7 1.9 Reorganisation costs, including release of onerous lease provision 5 0.1 1.1 Financials 104 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials 6 Operating profit continued The analysis of the auditors remuneration is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 000 000 Fees payable to the companys auditor for the audit of the companys annual accounts 121 153 Fees payable to the companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of the companys subsidiaries persuant to legislation 265 265 Audit related assurance services 53 50 Taxation compliance services 71 46 All taxation advisory services not covered above 42 Internal audit services All assurance services not covered above All services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or any of its associates 30 All other non audit services A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the corporate governance statement on pages 57 to 60 and includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditor.
7 Staff costs Staff costs including directors emoluments and reorganisation costs are as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 m m Salaries 38.6 32.8 Social security costs 4.3 3.3 Defined contribution pension costs 1.9 1.7 Defined benefit pension costs 0.3 0.4 Equity-settled transactions 4.7 2.4 49.8 40.6 Key management personnel are considered to be the directors and their remuneration is disclosed within the remuneration report on pages 63 to 81.
In addition to the disclosures in the remuneration report, the charge to income in respect of equitysettled transactions of key management personnel, in accordance with IFRS2, was 1.2m 2012: 0.9m.
The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year including executive directors, analysed by category, was as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 Number Number Management 42 50 Research and production 326 312 Sales, administration and business support 201 136 569 498 Financials 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 8 Financial income Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 m m Interest receivable on money-market and bank deposits 1.1 0.7 1 Fair value changes on Contingent Value Notes 1.1 2 Fair value changes of borrowings 2.9 Financial income 1.1 4.7 1 Contingent Value Notes As part of BTGs acquisition of Biocompatibles in January 2011, 487 Biocompatibles shareholders elected to receive in aggregate 10,722,465 Contingent Value Notes CVNs providing a right to a payment of the Sterling equivalent of 0.56 per Biocompatibles share if AstraZeneca exercised its option to enter a licence agreement relating to CM-3 on the pre-agreed terms.
In May 2011 AstraZeneca decided to terminate the development and option agreement.
The payment obligation would only have arisen if BTG entered into another form of licence, sale or other disposal of the GLP-1 asset to AstraZeneca prior to 31 December 2012.
The BTG Board did not believe that there was any realistic possibility that this would occur.
Accordingly, in the prior year, the Group derecognised a liability of 1.1m in relation to the CVNs through the income statement in financial income in the acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs column.
Subsequently no qualifying form of agreement was entered into by the Group.
2 Borrowings In the prior year, following the withdrawal of the Novabel product from the market, termination of the supply agreement with Merz and subsequent impairments recognised within tangible and intangible assets, the Group derecognised a 2.8m loan from Merz as there was no obligation for this to be repaid.
The loan was received to fund the purchase of tangible assets for use in the manufacture of Novabel and was repayable out of revenues.
9 Financial expense Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 m m Fair value changes of foreign exchange forward contracts 2.6 1.5 Others 0.1 0.1 Financial expense 2.7 1.6 Financials 106 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials 10 Tax An analysis of the tax charge in the income statement for the year, all relating to current operations, is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 m m Current tax UK corporation tax charge 3.6 2.8 Overseas corporate tax charge 2.6 0.9 Adjustments in respect of prior years 2.1 0.2 Total current taxation 4.1 3.9 Deferred taxation Deferred tax 1.8 5.3 Adjustments to tax rates 1.8 0.8 Total tax charge for the year 7.7 8.4 In addition to the tax charge in the income statement, a deferred tax charge of 1.6m has been recognised in the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income.
UK corporation tax is calculated at 24% 2012: 26% of the estimated taxable profit for the year.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
Reconciliation of the effective tax rate: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 m m Profit before tax 24.1 23.0 Tax using UK corporation tax rate of 24% 2012: 26% 5.8 5.9 Effect of overseas tax rates 2.9 2.9 Change in unrecognised deferred tax assets 1.3 2.1 Non-deductible expenses 2.3 0.3 Additional tax credit for research and development expenditure 0.3 0.6 Adjustments to tax rates 1.8 0.8 Adjustments in respect of prior years 3.5 1.4 7.7 8.4 Financials 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 10 Tax continued An analysis of amounts included in the consolidated statement of financial position in respect of income taxes is shown below: 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 m m Current assets Overseas corporate tax receivable 0.4 Current liabilities UK corporation tax payable 0.4 0.9 Overseas corporate tax payable 0.8 1.2 1.2 2.1 Deferred taxation The movements in the deferred tax asset and liabilities prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS12, Income Taxes during the year are as shown below.
The deferred tax asset and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balance net.
Deferred tax asset 2013 2012 m m Deferred tax asset recognised at 1 April 1.0 0.9 Income statement charge credit 0.1 0.1 Deferred tax asset recognised at 31 March 0.9 1.0 The deferred tax asset relates to short-term timing differences in Australia.
It has been recognised using a tax rate of 30% 2012: 30% because the directors are of the opinion, based on recent and forecast trading, that the level of profits in Australia in the forthcoming years will lead to the realisation of this asset.
Deferred tax liability The deferred tax liability of 41.8m 2012: 35.2m represents the net position after taking into account the offset of deferred tax assets against deferred tax liabilities in each jurisdiction.
Deferred tax liabilities of 62.4m arise on intangible assets recognised at fair value on acquisitions, 1.6m on pension fund surplus and 0.1m on accelerated capital allowances.
Deferred tax assets relate to brought forward trading losses.
The table below summarises the gross and net position at each balance sheet date: Deferred tax Deferred tax Net deferred assets liabilities tax liability m m m At 1 April 2011 55.4 86.1 30.7 Adjustments re prior years 1.4 2.8 1.4 Income statement debit credit 16.2 9.9 6.3 Exchange differences 0.1 0.1 Other 0.4 0.4 At 1 April 2012 37.9 73.1 35.2 Adjustments re prior years 1.3 1.3 Income statement debit credit 17.4 12.5 4.9 Other comprehensive income debit 1.6 1.6 Exchange differences 0.5 1.9 1.4 At 31 March 2013 22.3 64.1 41.8 Financials 108 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials 10 Tax continued The 2013 Budget on 20 March 2013 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 20% by 2015.
A reduction in the rate from 24% to 23% effective from 1 April 2013 was substantively enacted on 3 July 2012.
The further reductions to 21% from 1 April 2014 and to 20% from 1 April 2015 have not yet been substantively enacted.
This will reduce the Companys future current tax charge accordingly.
The UK deferred tax assets and liabilities at 31 March 2013 have been calculated based on the rate of 23% substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
It has not yet been possible to quantify the full anticipated effect of the announced further 3% rate reduction, although this will further reduce the Companys future current tax charge and reduce the Companys deferred tax asset and liability accordingly.
Unrecognised tax losses In addition to the losses on which a deferred tax asset has been recognised, the Group has additional tax losses and other timing differences in the UK and the US which arose principally as a result of the research and development incurred during the start up of the Groups activities.
These losses and timing differences are shown below.
The UK tax losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
The US tax losses can be carried forward for 20 years and the first year in which they expire is 2032.
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of the losses and timing differences shown below as there is uncertainty as to whether such losses and timing differences can be used.
The total amount of tax losses and timing differences not recognised is shown below: 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 m m Tax losses 120.0 157.4 Deductible temporary differences 30.4 15.9 150.4 173.3 Financials 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 11 Earnings per share The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 Profit for the financial year m 16.4 14.6 Profit per share p Basic 5.0 4.5 Diluted 5.0 4.4 Number of shares m Weighted average number of shares basic 326.9 325.9 Effect of share options on issue 4.0 3.4 Weighted average number of shares diluted 330.9 329.3 The basic and diluted earnings per share from underlying earnings are based on the following data: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 Profit for the financial year m 16.4 14.6 Add back: 1 Fair value adjustment on acquired inventory 2.1 Fair value adjustment on royalty income 0.1 2 Amortisation of acquired intangible fixed assets 31.1 19.3 3 Acquisition and reorganisation costs including CVN writeback 0.1 0.1 4 Reorganisation of US corporate structure 1.0 Underlying earnings 47.4 37.0 Underlying profit per share p Basic 14.5 11.4 Diluted 14.3 11.2 Adjustments to profit are shown after taking into account the tax effect of such adjustments on the results as shown in the consolidated income statement as follows: 1 No tax adjustment was required on the fair value of acquired inventory in the prior year.
2 The release of deferred tax liability of 12.3m 2012: 11.4m has been deducted from the amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets of 43.4m 2012: 30.7m as shown in the consolidated income statement.
3 In the year ended 31 March 2013 there was nil tax impact on reorganisation credits of 0.1m that have been adjusted.
In the year ended 31 March 2012, 0.1m of tax effect of reorganisation costs was adjusted on the basis that the tax charge would have been 0.1m higher had it not been for deductions available against reorganisation costs paid in the financial year.
4 An adjustment was made for the deferred tax credit recognised at 31 March 2011 as a result of the completion of a tax-free reorganisation and subsequent review of such items in the year ended 31 March 2012.
Financials 110 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials 12 Goodwill m At 1 April 2011 59.2 At 1 April 2012 59.2 At 31 March 2013 59.2 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 April 2011, 1 April 2012 and 31 March 2013 Net book value at 31 March 2013 59.2 Net book value at 1 April 2012 59.2 Net book value at 1 April 2011 59.2 Impairment review goodwill and intangible assets An impairment review of the carrying value of goodwill and unamortised intangible assets was conducted as at 31 March 2013.
Goodwill arose on the acquisitions of Protherics PLC and Biocompatibles International plc.
This has been allocated across the Groups cash generating units, being its operating segments see note 4.
Goodwill recognised on acquisitions has been allocated across operating segments in proportion to the anticipated benefits of that goodwill on the operating segment, having regard for the assets and liabilities acquired.
The carrying value of goodwill has been allocated as relating to Specialty Pharmaceuticals, 16.4m 2012: 16.4m, as relating to Interventional Medicine, 22.6m 2012: 22.6m and in relation to Licensing & Biotechnology, 20.1m 2012: 20.1m.
The impairment review required the estimation of the recoverable amount based on the value in use of the underlying cash generating unit.
Near-term projections are based on the Groups approved three-year plan.
Longer-term projections through to the end of an assets estimated useful economic life are included due to the long-term nature of pharmaceutical product development and product life cycles.
The main assumptions on which the forecast cashflows were based include market share and gross margin for the marketed products, individual probability-adjusted cash flow models for all in-process research and development and an assessment of the net present value of future net royalty income for licensed patents.
Cash flow projections for all assets were included for a period equal to the estimated useful economic life of the assets.
No terminal values were applied.
All cashflows were discounted back to present value using a pre-tax discount rate of between 8% 2012: 7% for net royalty income and 22% 2012: 28% for in-process research and development, which takes into account the individual risk characteristics of each particular asset and related income stream.
For developed technology, the Group uses its approved three-year budget for near-term sales projections, adjusting for expected changes in future conditions, including those anticipated as a result of our knowledge of competitor activity and our assessment of future changes in the pharmaceutical industry for long-term projections.
For contractual relationships, the Group uses the same basic methodology as for developed technology but limits the projection period to the appropriate useful economic life of the contractual relationship.
For in-process research and development the key assumptions are the chance of product launch, market share and overall market size.
Industry average statistics are used to assess the chance of product launch, taking in to account the stage of development of the asset, the therapeutic area targeted and any known specific characteristics of the asset.
Market share and overall market size are assessed by reference to independent industry market reports.
In assessing whether there has been an impairment the net present value of future cashflows is compared to the carrying value in the accounts.
All other amortisation and impairment is shown within Selling, general and administrative expenses in Operating expenses.
Financials 112 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials 13 Intangible assets continued Developed technology Developed technology relates to both the antidote assets acquired in Protherics PLC comprising principally of the rights to CroFab and DigiFab and the bead assets acquired in Biocompatibles International plc comprising principally of the rights to the DC Beadand LC Bead.
The carrying value of individually significant assets within developed technology is: Remaining 31 March 31 March amortisation 2013 2012 period at 31 m m March 2013 CroFab 73.1 72.8 20.7 years DigiFab 23.6 23.5 20.7 years DC Beadand LC Bead 91.2 98.3 12.8 years Contractual relationships Contractual relationships relates to contracts acquired in Protherics PLC and Biocompatibles International plc.
The carrying value and remaining amortisation period of individually significant contracts is: Remaining 31 March 31 March amortisation 2013 2012 period at 31 m m March 2013 Licence agreement with AstraZeneca for AZD9773 CytoFab 22.9 An impairment charge of 22.5m has been recognised in amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles in the acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs column in the income statement in relation to AZD9773 see note 29.
Purchase of contractual rights In May 2012, BTG signed an agreement with Wellstat Therapeutics Corporation to acquire the rights to distribute uridine triacetate on a name patient supply basis in Europe for an upfront payment of $3.0m, together with an option to market uridine triacetate following EU regulatory approval, under pre-agreed financial terms including a multi-million dollar exercise fee.
In July 2011 BTG signed an agreement with Wellstat Therapeutics Corporation to acquire the US commercial rights to product candidate uridine triacetate.
BTG paid Wellstat an upfront fee of $7.5 million and will make milestone payments upon NDA acceptance and approval and inventory purchase payments based on manufacturing costs and a significant percentage of net sales.
The fair valuation of consideration was capitalised at 6 July 2011 and will be amortised over the ten year period starting from marketing approval representing the length of the exclusive period and point at which BTG will begin to generate economic returns from the product.
Financials 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 14 Property, plant and equipment Plant and machinery, Assets in the Leasehold Freehold land Furniture and course of improvements and buildings equipment construction Total m m m m m Cost or valuation At 1 April 2011 1.2 12.9 15.3 3.3 32.7 Additions 0.2 2.0 1.6 3.8 Transfers 0.2 0.2 0.4 Disposals 0.1 1.6 0.2 1.9 Currency movements 0.1 0.1 At 1 April 2012 1.3 13.2 15.9 4.2 34.6 Additions 0.1 3.4 1.8 2.2 7.5 Transfers 0.3 0.6 0.9 Disposals 0.9 0.9 Currency movements 0.8 0.3 0.1 1.2 At 31 March 2013 1.7 17.4 17.7 5.6 42.4 Depreciation At 1 April 2011 0.2 1.5 6.2 7.9 Provided during the year 0.2 0.6 2.4 3.2 Impairments 3.0 3.0 Disposals 0.1 1.5 1.6 Currency movements 0.1 0.1 At 1 April 2012 0.3 2.1 10.2 12.6 Provided during the year 0.2 0.6 2.3 3.1 Impairments 0.1 1.6 0.1 1.8 Disposals 0.9 0.9 Currency movements 0.1 0.3 0.4 At 31 March 2013 0.5 2.9 13.5 0.1 17.0 Net book value at 31 March 2013 1.2 14.5 4.2 5.5 25.4 Net book value at 1 April 2012 1.0 11.1 5.7 4.2 22.0 Net book value at 1 April 2011 1.0 11.4 9.1 3.3 24.8 The net book value of plant and machinery and furniture, fixtures and equipment includes 0.2m 2012: 0.5m in respect of assets held under finance lease and hire purchase agreements.
Depreciation for the year on those assets was 0.1m 2012:0.2m.
As detailed in note 29, property, plant and equipment write downs associated with assets used in the development of AZD9773 of 1.8m have been recognised in the amounts written off property, plant and equipment.
This adjustment was not reflected in the acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs column.
In the prior year an impairment charge of 3.0m was made against tangible fixed assets that would have been used exclusively for production of Novabel.
The product has been withdrawn from the market since June 2010 and Merz has terminated the supply agreement with the Group.
Financials 114 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials 15 Other investments 2013 2012 m m At 1 April 3.0 2.7 Additions 0.5 Impairment charge 0.2 At 31 March 3.0 3.0 Other investments comprise non-current equity investments which are available-for-sale that are recorded at fair value at each balance sheet date.
The fair value of unlisted investments is estimated to be the valuation following the latest round of equity funding.
In the absence of specific market data the Group determines that cost is equal to fair value.
Where the fair value of an available-for-sale asset is impaired, the impairment charge is recognised in the income statement, together with any amounts recycled from the fair value reserve see note 19.
These impairments initially arise from the prolonged or significant decline in the fair value of the equity investments below acquisition cost, subsequent to which any further decline in fair value is immediately taken to the income statement.
16 Inventories 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 m m Raw materials and consumables 10.0 6.6 Work in progress 11.6 12.4 Finished goods 1.7 2.8 23.3 21.8 In the prior period a fair value adjustment of 2.1m was recognised through cost of sales see note 4 leaving nil of fair value uplift recognised on the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc remaining.
Inventory to the value of 1.6m 2012:1.5m was written off through cost of sales.
17 Trade and other receivables 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 m m Due within one year Revenues receivable, net of provisions 19.2 20.4 Other debtors 6.5 3.6 Prepayments and accrued income 28.8 16.1 54.5 40.1 Managing credit risk: Revenues receivable, net of provisions represents accrued royalty income for the period to 31 March 2013 and certain other amounts receivable under licence agreements.
Financials 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 17 Trade and other receivables continued The ageing of these amounts was as follows: 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 Gross Provision Gross Provision m m m m Not past due 17.0 19.8 0-30 days 1.6 0.5 31-90 days 0.3 0.1 90 days 1.1 0.8 0.8 0.8 Total 20.0 0.8 21.2 0.8 Provisions for bad debts of 0.8m 31 March 2012: 0.8m have been made to write down the value of doubtful receivables to estimated recoverable amounts.
The charge to income for the year to 31 March 2013 in respect of provisions for bad debts was nil 2012: 0.5m.
18 Cash and cash equivalents 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 m m Bank balances 158.7 106.9 Cash and cash equivalents in statement of cash flows 158.7 106.9 Cash deposits with a maturity of greater than three months are classified as held to maturity financial assets.
Held to maturity financial assets 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 m m Bank deposits 5.0 The effective interest rate on held to maturity financial assets in the prior year was 3.5% and these deposits had an average maturity of ten months.
Financials 116 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials 19 Equity Other reserves are analysed as follows: Translation Fair value Total other reserve reserve reserves m m m At 1 April 2011 3.8 0.1 3.7 Total recognised income and expense 0.3 0.3 At 1 April 2012 4.1 0.1 4.0 Total recognised income and expense 4.2 4.2 At 31 March 2013 0.1 0.1 0.2 The merger reserve is used where more than 90% of the shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration includes the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby attracting merger relief under s612 and s613 of the Companies Act 2006.
The balance on the merger reserve has arisen through the acquisitions of Biocompatibles International plc on 27 January 2011 and Protherics PLC on 4 December 2008 and includes directly attributable costs of issuing shares of 1.1m relating to the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc.
The issued and fully paid share capital of the Company is shown below: Ordinary shares of 10p each 2013 2012 Number m Number m At 1 April 327,292,865 32.7 326,725,906 32.7 Issued for cash 984,006 0.1 566,959 At 31 March 328,276,871 32.8 327,292,865 32.7 The shares issued in the current and prior year were as a result of the acquisition of the Biocompatibles Group and the exercise of share options.
Share options Details of outstanding share options are set out in note 23.
Financials 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 20 Trade and other payables 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 m m Amounts falling due within one year Trade payables 9.4 6.0 Accruals and deferred income 47.6 45.9 Other creditors 4.6 3.5 61.6 55.4 Amounts falling due after more than one year Accruals and deferred income 0.3 4.7 Other creditors 0.2 0.3 0.5 5.0 21 Derivative financial instruments 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 m m Contracts with positive fair values Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.5 Derivative instrument assets 0.5 Contracts with negative fair values Forward foreign exchange contracts 2.2 Derivative instrument liabilities 2.2 The Group utilises foreign currency derivatives to hedge significant future transactions and cash flows.
At 31 March 2013 the Group had forward contracts to sell US$71m in the period to September 2013 at rates in the range 1:US$1.56 to 1:US$1.61.
The fair value of these derivative financial instruments was marked-to-market at 31 March 2013 as a liability at 2.2m.
At 31 March 2012 the Group had forward contracts to sell US$25m in the period to September 2012 at rates in the range 1:US$1.54 to 1:US$1.60.
The fair value of these derivative financial instruments was marked-to-market at 31 March 2012 as an asset at 0.5m.
At 31 March 2012 the Group had a forward contract to buy AU$1m in April 2012 at a rate of 1:AU$1.52.
The fair value of this forward contract was marked-to-market at 31 March 2012 at nil.
The fair value loss for the year associated with these forward contracts was included within Financial expense.
A 5% strengthening of the US$ as at 31 March 2013, all other variables being unchanged, would result in an additional 2.3m charge within Financial expense in the income statement and a fair value liability of 4.5m within Derivative instruments within current liabilities.
A 5% weakening of the US$ would result in a 2.3m reduction within Financial income and a decrease in Derivative instruments to nil within current liabilities with the Group recognising a current asset of 0.1m within Derivative instruments.
Financials 118 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials 22 Retirement benefit schemes Defined benefit scheme For eligible UK employees the Group operates a funded pension plan providing benefits based on final pensionable emoluments.
The plan was closed to new entrants as of 1 June 2004.
The assets of the plan are held in a separate trustee administered fund.
The plan has a history of granting increases to pensions inline with price inflation, and these increases are reflected in the measurement of the obligation.
The results of the formal valuation of the plan as at 31 March 2010 were updated to the accounting date by an independent qualified actuary in accordance with IAS19.
In July 2010, the government announced its intention that future statutory minimum pension indexation would be measured by the Consumer Prices Index, rather than the Retail Prices Index RPI.
The Group continues to value its pension fund liability on the basis of RPI.
The expected rate of return on assets for the financial year ending 31 March 2013 was 4.6% pa 2012: 5.4% pa.
This rate is derived by taking the weighted average of the long-term expected rate of return on each of the asset classes that the plan was invested in at 31 March 2012, based on the plans long-term investment strategy at that date.
The estimated amount of total employer contributions expected to be paid to the plan during 2013 14 is 3.9m 2012 13actual: 5.1m.
The estimate is based on the current schedule of contributions agreed as part of the formal valuation of the plan as at 31 March 2010.
The following table sets out the key IAS19 assumptions used for the plan: 31 March 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 2011 Retail price inflation 3.6% p. a.
Pension increases in deferment RPI inflation 3.6% p. a.
Pension increases in payment RPI inflation 3.6% p. a.
Pension increases in payment inflation capped at 2.5% 2.3% p. a.
Life expectancy at age 60 of a male age 60 at the accounting date 87.5 87.3 87.3 Life expectancy at age 60 of a male age 40 at the accounting date 89.1 88.9 88.8 The amount included in the statement of financial position arising from the Groups obligations in respect of the plan is as follows: 31 March 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 2011 m m m Present value of defined benefit obligation 116.3 108.6 96.8 Fair value of scheme assets 121.0 108.5 94.8 Net asset liability recognised in the statement of financial position 4.7 0.1 2.0 A net asset is presented in the statement of financial position within non-current assets.
A net liability is presented in the statement of financial position within non-current liabilities.
Financials 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 22 Retirement benefit schemes continued The amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of the plan are as follows: 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 m m Employers part of current service cost 0.4 0.4 Interest cost 5.0 5.2 Expected return on plan assets 5.0 5.2 Total expense included in income statement 0.4 0.4 The expense has been included in Operating expenses: Selling, general and administrative expenses.
The allocation of the plans assets is as follows: 31 March 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 2011 % % % Equity instruments 15 15 17 Diversified growth funds 14 14 14 Debt instruments 70 70 68 Cash net current assets 1 1 1 100 100 100 Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: 2013 2012 m m Defined benefit obligation at 1 April 108.6 96.8 Employers part of current service cost 0.4 0.4 Interest cost 5.0 5.2 Contributions from plan members 0.1 0.1 Actuarial loss on scheme liabilities 7.0 10.6 Benefits paid 4.8 4.5 Defined benefit obligation at 31 March 116.3 108.6 Changes in the fair value of the plan assets are as follows: 2013 2012 m m Fair value of plan assets at 1 April 108.5 94.8 Expected return on plan assets 5.0 5.2 Actuarial gains on scheme assets 7.1 7.7 Contributions by the employer 5.1 5.2 Contributions by plan members 0.1 0.1 Benefits paid 4.8 4.5 Fair value of plan assets at 31 March 121.0 108.5 The actual return on the plans assets over the year was 12.1m 2012: 12.9m.
The amount recognised outside profit and loss in other comprehensive income for 2013 is a gain of 0.1m 2012: loss of 2.9m.
The cumulative amount recognised outside profit and loss as at 31 March 2013 is a loss of 10.6m 2012: loss of 10.7m.
Financials 120 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials 22 Retirement benefit schemes continued The history of experience adjustment is as follows: 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligations 116.3 108.6 96.8 98.3 74.9 Fair value of plan assets 121.0 108.5 94.8 89.1 74.9 Asset Deficit in the scheme 4.7 0.1 2.0 9.2 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Experience adjustments on plan assets Amount of gain loss m 7.1 7.7 0.9 10.4 7.4 Percentage of plan assets % 6 7 1 12 10 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities Amount of gain loss m 0.9 1.5 3.4 2.5 Percentage of the present value of plan liabilities % 1 1 4 3 The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities are: Increase in liabilities 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 Change in assumption m m Discount rate Decrease of 0.1% 1.8 1.8 IAS 19 Amended IAS 19 Amended removes the option to include an expense reserve in pension scheme liabilities.
This change is expected to result in a one-off credit to other comprehensive income, a one-off credit to opening reserves and a corresponding increase in net assets in 2013 comparatives in the year ending 31 March 2014, to release the expense reserves previously recognised within pension scheme liabilities.
The estimated transition impact, once adopted by the Group for the period ending 31 March 2014, is shown in the tables below.
Impact on statement of financial position 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 m m IAS 19 Current Present value of defined benefit obligation 116.3 108.6 Fair value of scheme assets 121.0 108.5 Net asset liability recognised in the statement of financial position 4.7 0.1 IAS 19 Amended Present value of defined benefit obligation 110.7 103.5 Fair value of scheme assets 121.0 108.5 Net asset recognised in the statement of financial position 10.3 5.0 Transition impact Present value of defined benefit obligation 5.6 5.1 Fair value of scheme assets 5.6 5.1 Financials 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 22 Retirement benefit schemes continued Impact on consolidated income statement Year ended 31 March 2013 IAS19 IAS 19 Current Amended m m Employers part of current service cost 0.4 0.4 Interest cost 5.0 n a Expected return on plan assets 5.0 n a Net interest on the net pension liability n a 0.4 Administrative expenses n a n a Total expense included in income statement 0.4 Defined contribution schemes The Group offers defined contribution pension schemes for its UK, US, European and Australian employees.
The total income statement charge in relation to these schemes was 1.9m 2012: 1.7m.
The Groups defined contribution schemes are operated by external providers.
The only obligation of the Group with respect to these schemes is to make the specified contributions.
23 Share-based payments Share options The Group makes awards under an equity-settled share option plan that entitles employees to purchase shares in the Company.
In accordance with the rules of the plan, options are granted at the market price of the shares on the date of grant with a vesting period of generally three years.
They may only be exercised upon the attainment of certain performance criteria.
If the performance criteria are not met by the date specified at the time of grant, the options do not vest and will lapse.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire.
Furthermore, options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest unless the conditions under which they leave are such that they are considered to be a good leaver.
In this case their options remain exercisable for a limited period of time.
For further details of current awards, see the remuneration report on pages 63 to 81.
Option pricing For the purposes of valuing options to arrive at the share-based compensation charge, a binomial lattice option pricing model has been used.
The assumptions used in the model are as follows: 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 Risk-free interest rate 0.1% to 0.7% 0.8% to 2.5% Dividend yield Nil Nil Volatility 29% to 40% 27% to 41% Expected lives of options and awards granted under: Share option plan 6 years 6 years Sharesave plan 3.25 years 3.25 years Stock purchase plan 2.13 years 2.13 years Restricted share awards n a n a Performance share-plan 2 to 3 years 2 to 3 years Deferred share bonus plan 3 years 3 years Weighted average fair value for share option plan grants in the year 158.6p 119.3p Weighted average fair value for sharesave grants in the year 129.9p 114.8p Weighted average fair value for stock purchase plan grants in the year 100.7p 69.4p Weighted average fair value for performance share awards in the year 335.7p 264.6p Weighted average fair value for deferred share bonus awards in the year 380.5p 298.9p Financials 122 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials 23 Share-based payments continued The expected volatility is based on the historic volatility calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of the share options, restricted or performance shares, adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly-available information.
Share options are granted under a service condition, a non-market condition and a market condition.
Service and non-market conditions are not taken into account in calculating the fair value measurement of the services received.
Performance shares are awarded under a service condition, a non-market condition and a market condition.
Awards of share options and performance share awards made in 2009 and later years have a market condition based on a TSR measure using the FTSE 250 companies excluding investment trusts, companies in the financial services sector banks, life & non-life insurance, equity & non-equity investment trusts, financial services, real estate investment & services and real estate investment trusts etc.
and companies in the consumer discretionary sector general retailers, media, travel & leisure, and leisure goods.
Earlier share options and performance shares used the FTSE SmallCap excluding Investment Trusts index.
If the Companys share price at least matches the performance of the relevant index over the vesting period, the market-based performance condition will be considered to have been achieved.
The fair value of an award of shares under the share option and performance share plans have been adjusted to take into account this market-based performance condition using a pricing model based on expectations about volatility and the correlation of share price returns in the relevant index and which incorporates into the valuation the interdependency between share price and index performance.
This adjustment increases the fair value relative to the share price at the date of grant.
See the remuneration report on pages 63 to 81 for further information.
Details of options and awards under the Groups share plans are shown in the tables below.
31 March 2013 31 March 2012 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise share options price share options price 000 p 000 p Share options Outstanding at 1 April 1,427 225.2 927 175.8 Granted during year 341 384.2 550 298.9 Lapsed during year 79 132.7 2 776.5 Exercised during year 7 106.3 48 96.6 Outstanding at 31 March 1,682 262.3 1,427 225.2 Exercisable at 31 March 436 161.7 139 120.9 Sharesave plan Outstanding at 1 April 475 183.5 309 144.9 Granted during year 177 320.2 237 219.5 Lapsed during year 38 219.3 28 137.9 Exercised during year 155 147.0 43 134.0 Outstanding at 31 March 459 245.2 475 183.5 Exercisable at 31 March Stock purchase plan Outstanding at 1 April 66 216.4 49 166.0 Granted during year 56 349.5 43 243.1 Lapsed during year 2 326.3 6 202.2 Exercised during year 25 173.2 20 156.4 Outstanding at 31 March 95 305.3 66 216.4 Exercisable at 31 March Financials 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 23 Share-based payments continued Options outstanding at 31 March 2013 Weighted Latest exercise exercise date Number price year ended 000 p 31 March Share options granted in year ended 31 March 2005 78 106.3 2015 2007 55 143.5 2017 2010 303 179.3 2020 2011 358 201.3 2021 2012 547 298.9 2022 2013 341 384.2 2023 1,682 Sharesave plan options granted in year ended 31 March 2011 79 146.7 2014 2012 214 219.5 2015 2013 166 320.2 2016 459 Stock purchase plan options granted in year ended 31 March 2012 40 243.1 2014 2013 55 349.5 2015 95 Performance share awards Following approval of the Performance Share Plan by shareholders at the 2006 AGM, the Company has made awards to the executive directors and other employees with a vesting period of two or three years.
A new Senior Management Performance Share Plan was approved by the Board in 2012 in order to award shares to certain senior employees below board level.
The shares will vest on the second anniversary of the grant date.
Movement in the number of performance share awards is as follows.
2013 2012 Number of Number of share awards share awards 000 000 Performance share awards Outstanding at 1 April 3,108 2,621 Granted during year 1,347 1,321 Lapsed during year 288 280 Exercised during year 806 554 Outstanding at 31 March 3,361 3,108 Exercisable at 31 March Senior Management Performance Share Plan Outstanding at 1 April Granted during year 142 Lapsed during year Exercised during year Outstanding at 31 March 142 Exercisable at 31 March Financials 124 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials 23 Share-based payments continued Deferred share bonus plan The Company established a deferred share bonus plan.
The executive directors, members of the Leadership Team and certain other senior staff have part of their bonus awarded in shares.
The shares will vest on the third anniversary of the grant date.
Movement in the number of deferred bonus shares awarded is as follows.
2013 2012 Number of Number of share awards share awards 000 000 Outstanding at 1 April 682 591 Granted during year 240 195 Lapsed during year 14 19 Exercised during year 151 85 Outstanding at 31 March 757 682 Exercisable at 31 March For the performance share awards and the deferred share bonus plan awards are forfeited if the director or other employee leaves the Group before the awards vest, unless the conditions under which they leave are such that they are considered to be a good leaver: in which case their award is released following their departure.
If the Remuneration Committee decide that a departing beneficiary of an award is a good leaver, so their award may be released early, the award will only be released subject to the achievement of the performance conditions set out at the time of the granting of the award and may be subject to pro-ration for time, at the discretion of the Committee.
For further details see the remuneration report on pages 63 to 81.
The Biocompatibles Group had a number of share schemes prior to the date of acquisition by the Company.
With the exception of the Share Incentive Plan SIP, all share schemes ceased just prior to that date and share awards under the various schemes vested and or exercised to the extent to which performance conditions had been achieved.
No grants or awards remained outstanding at the date of acquisition.
Shares invested in the SIP were exchanged for BTG shares in the same ratio as other shareholders received in the acquisition: 1.6733 BTG shares for each Biocompatibles share plus 10p cash.
Whilst no further contributions may be invested in the SIP post the date of acquisition, shares already held in the SIP may remain until the date of closure of the Plan in 2016.
As at 31 March 2013 124,008 31 March 2012: 353,456 ordinary shares in BTG plc, issued and subscribed for by the Biocompatibles International plc Share Incentive Plan Trust, had not vested unconditionally.
24 BTG Employee Share Trust The Group includes an employee share trust, the BTG Employee Share Trust the Trust, which was established in Guernsey in 1992.
It holds shares for the general benefit of all employees who may eventually become legally entitled to them.
The Trust may distribute these shares to employees of the Group on the recommendation of the Company.
These distributions may be as a result of awards under the Restricted Share Scheme, the Deferred Share Bonus Plan or the recently set up Senior Management Performance Share Plan.
At 31 March 2013 the Trust has 347,900 shares set aside under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan 31 March 2012: 499,184.
Financials 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 25 Provisions 2013 2012 Leases Reorganisation Total Leases Reorganisation Total m m m m m m At 1 April 1.7 0.1 1.8 2.0 1.0 3.0 Provisions utilised during year 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.9 1.2 Provisions made during year 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Provisions released during the period 0.5 0.5 Difference on exchange 0.1 0.1 At 31 March 0.8 0.2 1.0 1.7 0.1 1.8 Balance due within one year 0.4 0.2 0.6 0.7 0.1 0.8 Balance due after more than one year 0.4 0.4 1.0 1.0 0.8 0.2 1.0 1.7 0.1 1.8 Lease provisions relate to onerous leases and represent the net present value of future obligations and where relevant, not covered by income from tenants see 2 p. The provision for reorganisation costs arose as a result of the Groups rationalisation activities following the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc on 27 January 2011 and Protherics PLC on 4 December 2008.
The provision principally comprises redundancy and other site closure costs.
26 Financial risk management objectives and policies Overview The Group has exposure to credit, liquidity and market risks from its use of financial instruments.
This note sets out the Groups key policies and processes for managing these risks.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a licensee fails to meet its contractual obligations or a customer fails to pay for goods and services received.
The Groups primary objective with respect to credit risk is to minimise the risk of default by licensees or customers.
A substantial element of the Groups revenue is derived from royalties which are only payable if a licensee is generating income from sales of licensed products.
In such instances the Groups exposure to credit risk is considered to be inherently relatively low, although is influenced by the unique characteristics of individual licensees.
The Groups policy is to provide against bad debts on a specific licence by licence basis.
Following the transition from a distribution agreement to direct sales during prior years, the majority of the marketed product revenues are currently generated from sales to several key wholesalers in the US Management maintains regular communication with the customers and monitors both sales to and payments from customers to minimise the credit risk exposure.
Financials 126 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials 26 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities as they fall due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The Group has limited debt facilities in the form of assets held under finance leases.
The Group has substantial cash balances to fund its operations.
Subsequent to the year end, the Group signed a 60m multi-currency revolving credit facility providing access to funds for a period of three years to April 2016.
The Groups policy is to place surplus cash resources on shortand medium-term fixed interest deposits, to the extent that cash flow can be reasonably predicted.
Term deposits are denominated in UK sterling with institutions rated as A or higher by both Moodys and Standard & Poors.
Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings in financial instruments.
The Group has little exposure to interest rate risk other than that returns on short-term fixed interest deposits will vary with movements in underlying bank interest rates.
The Groups principal market risk exposure is to movements in foreign exchange rates.
Foreign currency risk The Group has several overseas subsidiary undertakings, the revenues and the expenses of which are denominated in local currencies being US dollars, Euros and Australian dollars.
As a result the Groups sterling income statement, balance sheet and cash flows may be affected by movements in Sterling exchange rates with these currencies.
The Groups primary objective with respect to managing foreign exchange risk is to provide certainty over the value of future cash flows.
A significant element of the Groups revenue is denominated in US dollars with the remainder split between Sterling, Euros, Yen and other currencies.
The majority of the Groups operating expenses are in Sterling and US dollars with smaller elements in Euros and Australian dollars.
Where possible, anticipated foreign currency operating expenses are matched to foreign currency revenues.
The excess exposure over and above this natural hedge, to the extent that cash flows are predictable, is managed using forward contracts see note 21.
Sensitivity analysis A 5% weakening of the US$ at 31 March 2013 would have resulted in the following decreases in equity and profit or loss: 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 m m Profit or loss 1.3 2.7 Equity 4.8 3.5 Financials 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 26 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Interest rate risk The Group seeks to mitigate partially against increased interest rates whilst maintaining a degree of flexibility to benefit from decreasing rates of interest by holding a mix of fixed and floating rate financial liabilities.
The Group seeks to maximise the amount of interest income from its cash balances by using a variety of short-term, fixed high-interest deposit and money-market accounts.
The Group does not consider the impact of interest rate risk to be material to its results or operations and accordingly no sensitivity analysis is shown.
Market price risk It is, on occasion, deemed appropriate to take equity stakes in early-stage companies utilising the Groups technology as part of the overall licensing arrangement and small loans may be granted to these companies to further technology development.
These investments will be realised at an appropriate time in the development cycle.
Regular reports are made to the Board on the status of investments.
These investments form part of the Groups overall technology portfolio and do not materially affect liquidity.
Capital management The Group defines the capital that it manages as the Groups total equity.
The Groups objectives when managing capital are: I To safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
I To provide an adequate return to investors based on the level of risk undertaken.
I To have available the necessary financial resources to allow the Group to invest in areas that may deliver future benefits for inventive sources and returns to investors.
I To maintain sufficient financial resources to mitigate against risks and unforeseen events.
The Group believes it has sufficient ongoing cash and cash equivalents to meet its stated capital management objectives.
The Groups capital and equity ratio are shown in the table below.
31 March 31 March 2013 2012 m m Total equity capital and reserves attributable to BTG shareholders 431.0 406.2 Total assets 539.3 505.8 Equity ratio 79.9% 80.3% The Group is not subject to regulatory capital adequacy requirements as known in the financial services industry.
Financial instruments The Groups financial instruments comprise cash, shortand medium-term deposits, foreign currency forward contracts, contingent considerations and various items such as trade debtors and creditors which arise directly from operations.
In addition, a number of debt and equity investments, both quoted and unquoted, are held in technology-based companies along with borrowings including obligations under finance leases.
Financials 128 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials 26 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Fair values The fair values of the Groups financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying values shown in the statement of financial position, are as follows: Forward Total Designated contracts at Available Amortised carrying Fair at fair value fair value for sale cost value value m m m m m m 31 March 2012 Cash and cash equivalents 106.9 106.9 106.9 Held to maturity financial assets 5.0 5.0 5.0 Forward contracts 0.5 0.5 0.5 Other investments 3.0 3.0 3.0 Trade and other receivables 0.1 40.0 40.1 40.1 Trade and other payables 0.7 59.7 60.4 60.4 31 March 2013 Cash and cash equivalents 158.7 158.7 158.7 Forward contracts 2.2 2.2 2.2 Other investments 3.0 3.0 3.0 Trade and other receivables 54.5 54.5 54.5 Trade and other payables 0.8 61.3 62.1 62.1 The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.
Level 2 observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.
Fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m 31 March 2012 Financial assets recognised at fair value Investments 3.0 3.0 Forward contracts 0.5 0.5 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value Fair value of other contingent consideration 0.7 0.7 31 March 2013 Financial assets recognised at fair value Investments 3.0 3.0 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value Forward contracts 2.2 2.2 Fair value of other contingent consideration 0.8 0.8 Level 2 financial assets and liabilities represent forward foreign exchange contracts to sell US$ which are marked-to-market at each balance sheet date and other investments held at fair value as disclosed in note 15.
Level 3 financial liabilities represent the contingent consideration payable upon the purchase of the US commercial rights of product candidate uridine triacetate representing contingent milestone payments upon NDA acceptance and approval of the product candidate.
Financials 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 26 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Contractual maturity analysis of financial liabilities assets 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 m m Forward foreign exchange contracts that mature within: 0 to 3 months 0.6 0.1 3 to 6 months 1.6 0.4 6 to 12 months Total 2.2 0.5 Net gains and losses on financial assets and liabilities Foreign exchange gains of 3.1m 2012: gains of 2.6m were recognised within Operating profit in relation to settlement of trade receivables and payables.
The Group recognised a fair value loss of 2.6m 2012: loss of 1.5m relating to forward foreign exchange contracts within Financial expense 2012: Financial expense.
Estimation of fair values The following summarises the methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the table.
Other investments These comprise both listed and unlisted investments, available-for-sale.
The figure recorded in the statement of financial position note 15 is the best estimate of fair value.
Finance leases The fair values of such balances are estimated by discounting the future cash flows at the market rate.
Trade receivables, trade payables and cash and cash equivalents Trade payables and receivables have a remaining life of less than one year so their value recorded in the statement of financial position is considered to be a fair approximation of fair value.
Other contingent considerations are fair valued at each reporting period.
27 Operating leases Total non-cancellable operating lease rentals are due in the following periods: 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 Property Property m m Within one year 1.4 1.7 Between two and five years 2.8 4.3 Greater than five years 0.3 0.7 4.5 6.7 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable for certain of its office properties under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The Group leases a number of offices and facilities in the UK, the US, Germany, and Australia.
These leases have terms of up to six years.
The leases contain options to extend for further periods.
In the event of renewal, the lease contracts contain market review clauses.
None of the property leases provide the Group with an option to purchase the leased asset at the expiry of the lease period.
Financials 130 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials 28 Other financial commitments The Group has entered into agreements with a number of early-stage companies and venture capital funds.
At 31 March 2013 the Group is committed to invest nil under these agreements 2012: 0.2m.
As with any business whose core assets are intellectual property, the Group will from time to time resort to litigation or threats of litigation, or other legal processes, to defend its rights.
Litigation costs are regarded as a cost of doing business and will vary from year-to-year.
In the current year the Group incurred 1.1m in litigation costs 2012: 2.1m.
The Company has entered into an agreement to guarantee payments under the lease of a US subsidiary undertaking.
The Company has provided a Guarantee to certain subsidiary undertakings in respect of the BTG Pension Scheme up to a maximum amount equal to the lowest non-negative amount which, when added to the assets of the Scheme, would result in the Scheme being at least 105% funded on the date on which any liability arose, calculated on the basis set out in section 179 of the Pensions Act 2004, were a valuation to be conducted as at that date.
The Company has also provided a Guarantee to the same subsidiary undertakings for a maximum amount of 12.7m, being the deficit repair contributions agreed with the Trustees of the Scheme following the finalisation of the last actuarial valuation.
The Guarantee reduces as payments are made and expires in April 2014.
29 AZD9773 CytoFab On 8 August 2012 BTG announced the top-line data from a Phase IIb study of AZD9773 in patients with severe sepsis and or septic shock, conducted by AstraZeneca.
Consequently the following transactions have been recognised: I Revenue of 8.6m has been recognised within milestones and one-off income in the Licensing & Biotechnology operating segment.
The components of this revenue are: The release of deferred income associated with previous received milestones from AstraZeneca in relation to AZD9773 work streams totalling 6.1m.
Compensation for early contract termination of 2.5m.
I An impairment charge of 22.5m has been recognised in amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles in the acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs column.
I Property, plant and equipment writedowns associated with assets used in the development of AZD9773 of 1.8m have been recognised in the amounts written off property, plant and equipment.
30 Related parties Identity of related parties The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiary undertakings see note 2 b, its associates see note 2 b and its directors.
In relation to the related party relationship identified on page 54 concerning Giles Kerr, payments made by BTG to Oxford University and Isis Innovations Ltd under the relevant licence agreements were 1.5m during the year ended 31 March 2013.
There are no amounts still outstanding and payable by BTG under these agreements as at 31 March 2013.
Key management personnel are considered to be the directors and their remuneration is disclosed within the remuneration report on pages 63 to 81.
Financials 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 Group entities The significant subsidiary undertakings of BTG plc at 31 March 2013 are all wholly-owned, incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in England and Wales, unless shown otherwise.
All subsidiary undertakings operate in their country of incorporation and are consolidated in the Groups financial statements.
Class of capital Principal activity BTG International Holdings Ltd Ordinary Investment in IPR management companies Provensis Ltd Ordinary Development and commercialisation of IPR BTG International Ltd Ordinary Development, management and commercialisation of IPR BTG Employee Share Schemes Ltd Ordinary Trustee company Guernsey BTG Management Services Ltd Ordinary Investment and management of group companies Protherics Medicines Development Limited Ordinary Development, management and commercialisation of IPR BTG International Inc Common stock Research, development, manufacture and sale Delaware, USA of pharmaceutical products and potential drugs Protherics UK Limited Ordinary Research, development, manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products and potential drugs BTG Australasia Pty Limited Ordinary Manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products Australia and potential drugs Protherics Utah Inc. Common stock The research, development, manufacture and sale Tennessee USA of pharmaceutical products and potential drugs Protherics Salt Lake City Inc. Common stock Development, management and commercialisation Utah USA of IPR Biocompatibles International Limited Ordinary Investment and management of group companies Biocompatibles UK Limited Ordinary Commercialisation of Bead Products Biopolymerix Inc. Common stock Research and development Delaware USA Biocompatibles Inc. Common stock Commercialisation of Brachytherapy and Delaware USA distribution of Bead products BTG International Germany GmbH No par value shares Research and development formally known as CellMed AG.
Germany Indicates direct subsidiary of BTG plc.
Financials 132 Notes to the consolidated financial statements BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
