WHERE WE OPERATE We provide a one-stop-shop distribution and outsourcing service across 27 countries, supplying a broad range of internationally sourced non-food products to a variety of market sectors.
NORTH AMERICA CONTINENTAL EUROPE 3,401.7m 213.6m 1,151.5m 97.0m Revenue Operating profit Revenue Operating profit Revenue increased 15% at constant Revenue up 2% at constant exchange exchange rates.
19% 55% Slight decrease in operating margin from Improvement in operating margin from of revenue of revenue 6.4% to 6.3%.
Return on operating capital down from Return on operating capital up from 64.4% to 61.2%.
Read more on page 16 Read more on page 19 OUR MARKET SECTORS FOODSERVICE GROCERY CLEANING NON-FOOD SAFETY Non-food consumables, Goods not for resale A complete range of & HYGIENE RETAIL including food items which are used personal protection Cleaning and hygiene Goods not for resale, packaging, disposable but not actually sold, equipment, including materials, including including packaging and tableware, guest including food hard hats, gloves, chemicals and hygiene a full range of cleaning amenities, catering packaging, films, boots and workwear, paper, to cleaning and and hygiene products, equipment, cleaning labels and cleaning to industrial and facilities management to department stores, products and safety and hygiene supplies, construction markets.
companies and boutiques, office supply items, to hotels, to grocery stores, industrial and companies, retail restaurants, contract supermarkets and healthcare customers.
chains and home caterers, food retail chains.
processors and the leisure sector.
29% 27% 12% 12% 10% Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs.
02 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 UK & IRELAND REST OF THE WORLD 1,018.5m 71.6m 526.0m 51.2m Revenue Operating profit Revenue Operating profit Revenue increased 2% at constant Revenue up 47% at constant exchange exchange rates.
17% 9% Increase in operating margin from 6.6% Significant increase in operating margin of revenue of revenue to 7.0%.
Return on operating capital improved Return on operating capital down from from 86.5% to 98.8%.
Read more on page 20 Read more on page 23 MARKET ENVIRONMENT HEALTHCARE OTHER GROWTH DRIVERS COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE Disposable healthcare A variety of product Increasing trend to outsourcing.
No one does what we do, on our consumables, including ranges supplied to scale, across our international Global legislative trends for gloves, swabs, gowns other markets such markets.
health & safety and the and bandages, to the as government environment.
Expertise in making successful healthcare sector.
Underlying growth in key sectors Bunzls national distribution including: networks.
Foodservice away from home: CUSTOMERS Cleaning & hygiene away from home: Strong national, regional and local customer base.
Safety increased legislation: Working with national and Healthcare demographics.
