Executive Team Executive Team Executive Directors Jon Ehlen Sarah Manley Senior Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer Angela Ahrendts Beauty & Partner Businesses, Matt McEvoy Chief Executive Officer Americas Senior Vice President, Strategy & New Business Stacey Cartwright Fabrizio Fabbro Development Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Product Development Marianne Naberhaus 1 Senior Vice President, John Smith Alessandro Fabrini Wholesale Americas Chief Operating Officer Senior Vice President, Licensing Karin Ong 2 Carol Fairweather Emilio Foa Chief Operations Officer, Chief Financial Officer Designate Chief Financial Officer, Asia Pacific Europe Senior Vice President, Senior Management Emerging Markets Stuart Pemble Chief Financial Officer, Marketing, Christopher Bailey Marco Gentile IT, CMD & Digital Commerce Chief Creative Officer Chief Operating Officer, Europe Senior Vice President, Pascal Perrier Roberto Canevari Southern Europe Chief Executive Officer, Chief Supply Chain Officer Asia Pacific Stephen Gilbert Simona Cattaneo Senior Vice President, Architecture Paul Price Senior Vice President, Beauty Chief Merchandising Officer 3 Jan Heppe Yvonne Chan President, Americas Edouard Roche Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President, Beauty & Partnership Business, Scott Jameson Merchandising Europe Asia Pacific Chief Financial Officer, Architecture Steve Sacks Virginie Costa Donald Kohler Chief Customer Officer Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Planning Mark Taylor Chief Operating Officer, Americas Chief People Officer Andrew Maag John Douglas President, Europe & 4 Eugenia Ulasewicz Chief Technology Officer Emerging Markets President, Americas Ryad Djellas Michael Mahony 1.
Director from 11 July 2013 Chief Financial Officer, Chief Corporate Affairs Officer 3.
From 10 January 2013 Asia Pacific & General Counsel 4.
com Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance annual REVIEW 2012 13 i Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance 1 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance 2 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance 2012 2013 Annual Review Table of contents Introduction Strategic Themes 5 Financial Highlights 27 Leverage the Franchise 8 Chairmans Letter 31 Intensify Accessories 9 Chief Executive Officers Letter 34 Accelerate Retail-Led Growth 13 Executive Team 37 Invest in Under-Penetrated Markets 40 Pursue Operational Excellence Brand, Business, Culture 15 Brand Great Brand, Great Company 16 Business 45 Great Brand, Great Company 17 Culture 46 Burberry Beyond 49 Our People Burberry Group Overview 19 Burberry Group Overview Financial Review 20 Diversified Business Model 52 Group Financial Highlights 21 Channel Mix 22 Broad Geographic Portfolio Corporate Governance 23 Diversified Product Mix 59 Board of Directors 61 Executive Team 3 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Introduction 5 Financial Highlights 8 Chairmans Letter 9 Chief Executive Officers Letter 13 Executive Team Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Financial Highlights Strong Results Total revenue Year to 31 March Retail revenue Year to 31 March 1,999m 1,417m 2013 1,999 2013 1,417 2012 1,857 2012 1,270 2011 1,501 2011 962 2010 1,185 2010 710 2010 1,280 2010 749 2009 1,202 2009 630 Wholesale revenue Year to 31 March Adjusted operating profit Year to 31 March 473m 428m 2013 473 2013 428 2012 478 2012 377 2011 441 2011 301 2010 377 2010 220 2010 434 2010 220 2009 489 2009 181 Adjusted operating profit is stated before exceptional items.
Reported operating profit 346m 2012: 377m 2009 and 2010 include the results of the discontinued Spanish operations.
2010 has been re-presented to exclude the discontinued Spanish operations.
5 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Financial Highlights Adjusted diluted EPS Year to 31 March Net cash As at 31 March 70.0p 297m 2013 70.0 2013 297 2012 61.6 2012 338 2011 48.9 2011 298 2010 35.1 2010 262 2009 30.2 2009 8 Adjusted diluted EPS is stated before exceptional items.
Reported diluted EPS 57.0p 2012: 59.3p Dividends per share Year to 31 March Capital expenditure Year to 31 March 29.0p 176m 2013 29.0 2013 176 2012 25.0 2012 153 2011 20.0 2011 108 2010 14.0 2010 70 2009 12.0 2009 90 6 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance 7 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Chairmans Letter strong RESULTS In 2012 13, the Burberry team navigated a challenging environment making excellent strategic progress and achieving another record financial result.
board has recommended a 16% increase in the full year dividend to 29.0p.
In addition to the teams efforts, these results were also a function of investments over the past several years.
The Group has invested heavily in stores, emerging growth markets, technology and new capabilities.
While in line with Burberrys growth objectives, its worth highlighting that some of these are particularly important in a more difficult external environment.
For example, previous investments in information systems and business intelligence expertise brought greater visibility and enabled quicker and more precise action during the year.
Looking forward, although the near-term environment presents many uncertainties, Sir John Peace Burberry plans to continue to invest based upon a Chairman successful strategy, its distinctive culture and generally favourable luxury sector fundamentals.
Consistent with Strategically, activity was focused by Burberrys core this, in 2012 13 Burberry committed to one of its largest themes.
In product, the team continued to refine the single investments to date with its decision to integrate the offering across categories.
Innovative digital marketing fragrance and make-up business.
Operating as of 1 April activity brought a more engaging message to targeted sets 2013, Beauty offers an exciting growth platform of consumers.
Flagship store openings extended Burberrys for the future.
presence in key gateway cities.
Supported by these initiatives, the brand experience continued to be enriched The year also brought important management changes.
Burberrys distinctive culture was further Stacey Cartwright, Executive Vice President, Chief nurtured and reinforced, and continued to project externally Financial Officer and a director, will stand down in July 2013 through the work of the Burberry Foundation.
These, along to pursue new interests.
Stacey has been an outstanding with the full set of the Groups strategic initiatives, are contributor to Burberry during the past nine years, and we discussed throughout this report.
thank and wish her well in future endeavours.
We welcome Carol Fairweather as Chief Financial Officer and a director.
This progress was also recognised externally.
Interbrand, As Carol has been with the Group for six years, most the global brand consultancy, once again named Burberry recently leading the finance function, this is a natural in its list of the worlds 100 most valuable brands.
Finally, John Smith, former Chief Executive of digital arena, Burberry led media think tank L2s Fashion BBC Worldwide and a non-executive director, joined Digital IQ Index for the second year.
On land, Fast Burberrys executive team as Chief Operating Officer in Company magazine listed Burberry second in its ranking of March.
Johns deep experience in digital media is an the worlds most innovative retailers.
And, in an indicator of important addition to the Group.
In keeping with this cultural strength, professional platform LinkedIn identified dynamic, growing business, we expect to continue Burberry as the 29th most in-demand employer globally.
to evolve board composition going forward.
Financial performance was also strong.
Total revenue grew On behalf of the Board, I thank the global team for their 8% to 2bn, with adjusted operating profit increasing 14% efforts during a challenging year and congratulate them to 428m.
While overall results are strong, a look at the core on their achievements.
By executing a consistent strategy retail wholesale business, which excludes the impact of the in pursuit of clear objectives clarity of the luxury brand legacy Japan licensed business, is more indicative of the message, sustainable growth and great company modern brands progress.
Here, retail wholesale adjusted the Burberry team has generated substantial value for operating profit increased 17% on an 8% revenue gain.
shareholders in this and years past.
Similarly, on behalf Adjusted after-tax return on capital was 35%.
The Group of the Board and team, I thank shareholders for their ended the year with a 297m net cash balance, and the continued support.
8 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Chief Executive Officers Letter striking the balance From outstanding performance in 2011 12, Burberry began the year cautiously optimistic, our long-range objectives ensuring clarity of the luxury brand message, enabling sustainable growth and being a great company firmly in sight.
This combination of optimism and determination, fuelled by the brands wealth of opportunity, suggested continued pursuit of the investment-oriented strategic agenda in the year ahead.
At the same time, this pre-disposition was tempered by uncertainties in the macro environment and the goal to deliver near-term financial performance.
In the final analysis, the result was a balance of dynamic management, core execution and strategic investment.
Challenging context Following standout growth in 2011 relative to the range of consumer sectors, luxury slowed dramatically in 2012.
The ongoing economic crisis in the Eurozone and a continued sluggish US weighed on all areas of consumer spending.
Although most of Asia remained relatively Angela Ahrendts healthy, the Chinese consumer which accounts for Chief Executive Officer a majority of luxury consumption growth was subdued by a secularly decelerating economy complicated by government transition.
Industry experts estimate that luxury sector growth declined from 13% in 2011 to 5% in 2012.
Within that, ready-to-wear brands and businesses were disproportionately affected.
For Burberry, this climate manifested itself in a decline in store traffic and greater weekly sales volatility.
Dynamic management Internally, we talk about managing the business dynamically and focusing on the things we can control.
2012 13s external environment tested the team on these dimensions.
Supported by investments in information systems and business intelligence expertise during the past few years which enable monitoring, analysis and implementation we set out to do exactly that.
Heightened conversion The traffic decline placed greater emphasis on converting consumers entering the stores to customers.
This effort included service initiatives that maximised time on the selling floor of our most skilled associates, increased inventory availability and improved selling skills and product knowledge.
In terms of product, we expedited fashion assortments targeted at core luxury customers and refined monthly floorset execution to enhance the flow of fresh merchandise.
9 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Chief Executive Officers Letter Targeted marketing Enhancing the product proposition Aided by deeper consumer insight, we retargeted marketing At the heart of the Burberry brand, product was a key activities in keeping with changing consumer spending area of strategic activity.
The team increased the brands presence in Elevation of the product offering is an ongoing process.
high-profile outdoor and travel-oriented locations and In the year, we exited selected opening price points experimented with new digital venues some of which in heritage rainwear and leather goods categories.
were contracted on a real-time basis.
For festive periods, Exacting a cost in terms of sales, this is consistent with a cross-functional group refined programmes across the brands positioning within the current luxury context.
product, visual and advertising to better highlight specific Similarly responding to consumer demand, we continued gift-giving opportunities.
to invest in the upper tiers of our product pyramid, the Prorsum and London labels.
These labels increased their Tactical efficiency share of retail sales during the year.
The Group also acted to enhance near-term efficiency.
Discretionary expenses were tightly controlled and Although founded as a mens brand, Burberry is inventory was closely managed at all stages of the underpenetrated in mens.
During the year, outerwear process in keeping with softer sales.
benefited from greater emphasis on innovation and design.
Tailoring developed with broader assortments Core execution and expanded distribution.
Closer attention to in-store Articulated by the five strategic themes, Burberrys core timing of seasonal merchandise enhanced relevance of strategy has been consistently executed over the past the offering.
And the first fully dedicated Burberry mens seven years, and actions to navigate immediate conditions store was opened in London in October 2012.
Achieving did not sway us from this course.
a 13% revenue increase, mens was the fastest growing product division in the year.
With mens integration only Blurring the physical and digital two years old, Burberry is in the early stages of Given a world of increasingly ubiquitous mobile internet capitalising on this heritage.
access, we expect dissolution of the boundaries separating October saw the launch of The Britain watch for women physical and digital channels.
Consumers will see a single, and men.
The Britain, featuring an advanced Swiss-made continuous space in which to interact with a brand.
Through mechanical movement and more sophisticated design, a range of activities, we are working to integrate the benefits is an important step in realigning Burberrys watch of the physical and digital spheres.
Ultimately, the vision business with the brands luxury positioning.
is to serve completely any consumer on any platform in any geography.
Engaging the Chinese consumer globally In this regard, the opening of the London flagship at Given their importance, efforts to better understand 121 Regent Street in September is our most ambitious and serve Chinese consumers are an ongoing priority.
Housed in a period building restored in During the year, Burberry conducted proprietary research, partnership with traditional British craftsmen, the store leveraging the results across functions: to extend product expresses burberry.
com in tangible space complete sizing and fit, to train sales associates in high-travel markets, product assortment, RFID technology to trigger targeted to formulate occasion-specific marketing campaigns multimedia content, omnipresent digital screens citing a few examples.
In the year, Greater China represented continuously projecting brand imagery.
Burberry World Burberrys fastest growing major market and this consumer Live, a store of the future, blending heritage and innovation, was prominent throughout the retail network.
Additional integration initiatives included the expanded use of iPads to enhance inventory availability, continued upgrading of Retail Theatre throughout the store base to ensure synchronised delivery of brand content to consumers, and experimentation with new payment systems to streamline the purchase experience.
10 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Chief Executive Officers Letter Developing growth markets Strategic investment Outside Asia, the Group continued to develop other While executing currently, the team invested in strategic growth markets.
In the directly operated markets of India, initiatives with longer-term horizons.
Latin America and the Middle East, the Group opened net six mainline stores during the year.
While some offer Integrating Beauty below average profitability today, we believe these markets Among the most exciting strategic investments in recent represent important components of future growth.
years, the transition of Burberrys fragrance and make-up In regions operated through franchise partners, including business from a licensed to a directly operated business Turkey, Russia and Eastern Europe, eight stores were began in the year.
opened with expansion to five new markets, including Offering luxurys opening price point and broadest Georgia and Jordan.
New franchise agreements were distribution, fragrance is the most widely encountered signed for Colombia and Chile.
expression of the Burberry brand.
The category also accounts for a large percentage of global brand media Expanding the retail presence spend.
As a result, direct operation will assist in In addition to London, the year included flagship store optimising brand presence in every market, further enable openings in Chicago, Hong Kong and Milan.
While Burberry to capitalise on the synergistic relationship with contributing to sales, these brand statements in gateway fashion, and better align the product offering with brand cities present the complete Burberry to diverse groups architecture.
Integration elevates of relevant consumers, many of them new to the brand.
this business to true core activity, allowing Burberry In total, the Group opened net 14 mainline stores, to capture the full opportunity.
six concessions and five outlets during the year, and completed seven major renovations.
Average selling In terms of opportunity, despite Burberrys position space increased 13%.
among the largest luxury apparel and accessories brands globally, it is undersized in fragrance.
Growth has been Refining the wholesale presence slow, with fragrance significantly underperforming the rest Efforts to align the quality of the brands wholesale presence of the Group over the past five years.
In make-up, the with that of retail are ongoing.
In both the Americas and brand has only just started.
Europe, we continued to concentrate on luxury-oriented From the decision to integrate in October, the team department and specialty stores with emphasis on moved quickly across functions, leveraging existing skills dedicated real estate while exiting legacy doors and resources while adding external category-specific inconsistent with the brands positioning.
This activity, in talent and capability.
As of 1 April, Beauty had been combination with the channels exposure to soft geographies, successfully integrated and commenced operating.
resulted in 1% underlying wholesale revenue growth for Burberrys fifth product division, Beauty is a growth the year.
As part of the brand proposition, Burberry looks to be Evolving customer dialogue a leader in consumers digital interaction with brands, In a landscape of Big Data and continuous communication, in both innovation and capability.
In marketing, the S S13 we believe , deep customer relationships campaign generated record awareness through social which allow an individualised customer dialogue will be media.
Total Burberry YouTube video views reached over critical to future success in luxury.
As part of this, the Group ten million during the year.
RFID-enabled personalised began developing new tools to provide an integrated content was introduced with the A W13 runway show.
view of a customers interaction with the brand across Experimenting with emerging digital platforms, Burberry all Burberry platforms, with initial piloting of a clienteling streamed live images of London weather to prominent application commencing at year end.
Development work outdoor sites in London, Paris, Hong Kong, Los Angeles and to enhance consumers ability to engage the brand through New York during the Olympic period.
In commerce, mobile devices also progressed in the year.
com added Spanish and Korean languages and tested new fulfilment options.
11 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Chief Executive Officers Letter Transitioning the Japan legacy A great community In Japan, transition from the legacy licensed business Through the efforts of this great team we largely realised to global integration continued.
As part of this, Burberrys our objectives.
So I thank them, as well as Burberrys early stage retail operation achieved strong growth at extended community of franchise and licensing partners, existing stores and concessions, opened a concession, customers and suppliers, for their passion, commitment added a third store and planned additional openings in and hard work during the year.
Looking forward, this team 2013 14: while the effect of licence terminations continued provides confidence for markets favourable or not.
to reduce legacy royalty income.
KPI: Growth in adjusted diluted EPS Year to 31 March Reinforcing the supply chain is a key valuation metric for Burberrys shareholders.
To accommodate future growth objectives, the Group reinforced the supply chain.
In logistics, Burberry added 70.0p 14% distribution capacity, upgraded existing facilities and increased network efficiency.
In sourcing, additional 2013 70.0 14% resources were committed to further develop in-house 2012 61.6 26% outerwear manufacturing capability and improve raw 2011 48.9 39% material management.
2010 35.1 16% Strong financial results 2009 30.2 -4% This balance of activity delivered record financial results Adjusted diluted EPS is stated before exceptional items.
in 2012 13 while positioning Burberry well for years ahead.
Total revenue increased 8% underlying to 2bn.
Retail revenue grew 12% driven by new space and a 5% comparable store gain.
Soft European markets particularly weighed on wholesale, resulting in a 1% underlying revenue increase.
The 1% underlying decline in licensing revenue was a product of double-digit growth among global licences more than offset by declining legacy Japan royalties.
Adjusted operating profit increased 14% to 428m, with the core retail wholesale segment increasing 17% on 8% revenue growth retail wholesale operating margin also reached a record 17.8%.
Capital expenditure totalled 176m and the Group ended the year with 297m in net cash.
Powerful culture Burberrys culture is a key ingredient to this success.
Rooted in the brands core values and fuelled by a creative-thinking, entrepreneurial spirit, our connected, united culture creates an energy that enables innovation, coordination and agility.
These characteristics are evident in the years accomplishments.
This distinctive culture is also expressed externally through ethical trade and sustainability efforts, employee engagement with local communities and the Burberry Foundation, which contributes both human and capital resources to encourage youth to realise their dreams through the power of creativity.
We continued to invest in this powerful culture throughout the organisation communication initiatives, operating structures, reward programmes and celebrations.
The bigger the business becomes, the more connected we will need to be.
12 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance 13 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Brand, business, culture 15 Brand 16 Business 17 Culture Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Brand, Business, Culture brand Founded in 1856, Burberry today remains quintessentially British, with outerwear at its core.
Digital luxury positioning and the optimisation across innovative mediums of the trench coat, trademark check and Prorsum knight heritage icons make the brand purer, more compelling and more relevant globally, across genders and generations.
15 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Brand, Business, Culture BUSINESS Disciplined execution, constant evolution and balance across channels, regions and products underpin the management of the business.
Innovative product design, digital marketing initiatives and dynamic retail strategies drive consistent performance.
16 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Brand, Business, Culture CULTURE A closely connected, creative thinking culture encourages cross-functional collaboration, intuition and a meritocratic ethos.
United by open communication and a pure brand vision, and inspired by the companys core values Protect, Explore and Inspire compassionate global teams give back to their communities through the Burberry Foundation and socially responsible initiatives.
17 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance BURBERRY GROUP OVERVIEW 19 Burberry Group Overview 20 Diversified Business Model 21 Channel Mix 22 Broad Geographic Portfolio 23 Diversified Product Mix Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Burberry Group Overview Delivering sustainable profitable growth Burberry is a global luxury brand with a distinctive British heritage, core outerwear and large leather goods base and some of the most recognised icons in the world.
Burberry leverages its proven strategies and teams to assure sustainable, profitable growth balanced by channel, region and product.
19 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Burberry Group Overview Diversified Business MODEL Burberry designs and sources apparel and accessories, selling through a diversified network of retail including digital, wholesale and licensing channels worldwide.
The business is structured by channel, region and product division, supported by core corporate functions.
By Channel By Region By Product By Function Retail Asia Pacific Accessories Design including Digital Wholesale Europe Womens Marketing Licensing Rest of World Mens Store Architecture Americas Childrens Supply Chain Beauty Customer Resources Directly operated from 1 April 2013 IT HR Corporate Affairs Strategy & Finance 20 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Burberry Group Overview Channel mix Burberry sells its products to the end consumer through both retail including digital and wholesale channels.
For 2012 13, retail accounted for 71% of revenue and wholesale 24%.
Burberry also has licensing agreements in Japan and globally, leveraging the local and technical expertise of its licence partners.
Revenue by channel Underlying is calculated at constant exchange rates Licensing Revenue 109m -1% Wholesale Revenue 473m 1% Retail Revenue 1,417m 12% Retail Wholesale Licensing Includes 206 mainline stores, 214 concessions Includes sales to department stores, Includes income from Burberrys licensees, within department stores, digital commerce multi-brand specialty accounts, Travel Retail just over 60% from Japan with the balance and 49 outlets and franchisees who operate 65 Burberry from global product licensees fragrance, 12% underlying growth stores, mainly in emerging markets eyewear and timepieces and the European 5% comparable store growth 1% underlying growth wholesale childrens licensee 7% growth from new space Growth in North American 1% underlying decline 23 mainline store openings, focused department stores, Asia Travel Retail Royalty income from Japan down reflecting in flagship markets including Chicago, and emerging markets continued rationalisation of short-term Net eight new franchise stores opened accessories licences in Japan Hong Kong, Milan and London Double-digit underlying growth in royalty income from global product licences Burberry began directly operating fragrance and beauty from 1 April 2013 21 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Burberry Group Overview Broad geographic portfolio Burberry operates in four regions.
For 2012 13, Asia Pacific represented 39% of retail wholesale revenue, Europe 30%, Americas 25% and Rest of World 6%.
Retail wholesale revenue by destination Europe Underlying is calculated at constant exchange rates Revenue 560m Mainline stores: 42 Concession stores: 58 Asia Pacific Revenue 745m Mainline stores: 58 Concession stores: 153 Americas Revenue 463m Mainline stores: 78 Concession stores: 2 Rest of World Revenue 121m Mainline stores: 28 Concession stores: 1 Americas Europe Rest of World Asia Pacific 6% underlying growth 6% underlying growth 11% underlying growth 13% underlying growth Retail accounted for Retail accounted for nearly Retail accounted for nearly Retail accounted for nearly approximately two-thirds 70% of revenue 60% of revenue 90% of revenue of revenue Comparable store sales High single-digit comparable Double-digit comparable Low single-digit comparable growth broadly unchanged store sales growth, led store sales growth in China store sales growth, weighted year-on-year, France and by India and Hong Kong, Korea towards the second half Germany robust, Italy Good growth in wholesale remained weak Approaching 10% of Americas remained weak Good growth in Travel Retail, revenue, mainly to franchise retail revenue came from The United Kingdom partners who operate 65 which makes up the majority outside the United States accounted for over 40% of stores globally of wholesale in the region North American department Europe retail revenue store wholesale customers Largest wholesale region, outperformed, with further about 40% of group wholesale expansion of dedicated revenue.
Revenue impacted by shop-in-shops weak demand, especially in Italy, and continuing planned rationalisation of accounts 22 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Burberry Group Overview Diversified product mix Burberry has a structured product offering and has seen growth across each of these business areas.
For 2012 13, accessories represented 39% of retail wholesale revenue, womens 33%, mens 24% and childrens 4%.
Retail wholesale revenue by product division Underlying is calculated at constant exchange rates Childrens Accessories Revenue Large leather goods, nearly half of mainline accessories revenue 73m Continued innovation in core leather 9% programmes and key fashion shapes Mens accessories increased by over 30% Mens in mainline retail, to reach nearly 20% of Revenue total accessories revenue 464m Accessories 14% Revenue Womens Core outerwear was the largest growth 734m category, over half of mainline revenue 8% Prorsum and London outperformed, S S13 Brit resurgent Mens Significant growth in tailoring, up over 50% year-on-year Prorsum and London outperformed First standalone mens store opened in Knightsbridge, London Womens Revenue Childrens Strong growth in outerwear, supported 618m by S S13 advertising campaign 7% Replenishment up to nearly 30% of mainline revenue Burberry Prorsum The most fashion forward collection centred around runway shows, providing the design inspiration for the brand Burberry London The tailored collection, typically what a customer wears on weekdays for work Burberry Brit The most casual collection, typically worn on the weekend 23 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance 24 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance 25 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Strategic Themes 27 Leverage the Franchise 31 Intensify Accessories 34 Accelerate Retail-Led Growth 37 Invest in Under-Penetrated Markets 40 Pursue Operational Excellence Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Strategic Themes Leverage the Franchise Enhance consumer resonance and operate more effectively through exacting use of brand assets and coordinated action across the global organisation.
27 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance 28 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Strategic Themes Key highlights from 2012 13 include: Brand recognition Listed in Interbrands Top 100 Global Brands for the Brand momentum fourth consecutive year, Burberry was named the luxury Ensuring the strength, purity and positioning of the fashion brand with the greatest increase in brand value.
Burberry was cited by Altagamma as the luxury brand with the highest digital customer awareness and led Burberry World Live media think tank L2s Fashion Digital IQ Index for the Burberry Regent Street opened in London in September second year, as well as being named by L2 as the fashion 2012 as the brands most comprehensive expression brand with the highest digital IQ in China.
Introducing the concept of Burberry World Live, Burberry the 29th most in-demand employer globally.
Regent Street blurred the physical and the digital to bring all aspects of burberry.
com Burberry World to life Marketing innovation in a  heritage space.
Continued extension of its reach through marketing innovation, leveraging brand content to engage Offering the full collection in a digitally-enriched environment, and connect global audiences.
Regent Street engaged customers with brand content continuously projected on over 100 screens throughout Digital engagement the store, including product-specific content triggered by Brand excitement was driven globally across a range RFID-enabled merchandise on mirrors that turn instantly of platforms.
The S S13 main campaign generated to screens.
In-store audiences could watch key brand record awareness through social and traditional media, moments live from other locations, including the with the launch video generating over 1.7 million views womenswear S S13 and A W13 runway shows.
on YouTube and Burberry trending globally on Twitter.
Regent Street also gave physical expression to the The womenswear A W13 show was streamed live brands most innovative digital launches.
This included on Twitter for the first time, allowing followers to embed live music events featuring Burberry Acoustic artists the show stream in personal newsfeeds.
and the first in-store Burberry Bespoke experience.
Burberry finished the year as the most followed luxury brand on Facebook, with nearly 15 million fans.
Total Beauty lifetime YouTube video views reached nearly 24 million In October 2012, Burberry announced the transition and the brands combined Twitter following was over of its fragrance and make-up business from a licensed two million.
Burberry was also the leading luxury to a directly operated structure.
As consumers most widely encountered expression of the Burberry brand, Beauty provides outstanding Outdoor investment growth opportunities for the Group.
Business integration Investment was increased in out-of-home marketing was completed during the year with operations in key markets.
To emphasise the brands association commencing on 1 April 2013. with weather, Burberry streamed live images of London scenes simultaneously throughout the Olympic period Digital to prominent outdoor sites in London, Paris, Hong Kong, Investments in burberry.
com continued with expanded Los Angeles and New York.
delivery to over 100 countries, while the introduction The Art Of The Trench social media platform was taken of Spanish and Korean brought the number of languages to outdoor spaces in London and Chicago in conjunction online to eight.
Retail theatre was rolled out to a further 84 stores, More broadly, the brand secured key airport and iconic extending the global streaming of brand content in all urban locations on a long-term basis.
29 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Strategic Themes Product excellence KPI: Total revenue growth Year to 31 March Burberry creates great product through intensive focus Measures the appeal of the brand to consumers, on design innovation, quality and core heritage icons.
be it through Burberry stores or those of its department store orspecialty retail customers.
Outerwear Outerwear is the core of the apparel business, 1,999m 8% underpinned by monthly fashion groups and a robust replenishment programme.
Leveraging the brands 2013 1,999 8% unique heritage together with design innovation and 2012 1,857 23% excellence, outerwear accounted for about 50% of 2011 1,501 24% mainline apparel sales.
The iconic trench coat continued to be a central feature of the brands marketing activities.
2010 1,185 2010 1,280 1% Mens 2009 1,202 7% Investments in infrastructure saw increased product Retail Wholesale Licensing and marketing excellence in mens outerwear, London Growth rate is year-on-year underlying change i. e. at constant exchange rates.
As the fastest growing product division, 2009 and 2010 include the results of the discontinued Spanish operations.
mens represented 24% of retail wholesale revenue.
Retail sales of mens tailoring, available in over 70 mainline stores, grew by nearly 70% year-on-year and the first dedicated standalone mens store opened in Knightsbridge, London.
Product hierarchy Burberry Prorsum and London continued to outperform, reflecting customer preferences and representing about half of womens and mens mainline retail sales.
An ongoing focus on innovative product, marketing and merchandising and a shift in the product pyramid mix drove growth in mainline average unit retail prices.
Runway Made to Order launched, continuing to put the Burberry customer at the centre of increasingly personalised luxury experiences.
Engraved nameplates could be added to custom-made outerwear and bags from the womenswear A W13 collection.
Smart personalisation technology was introduced to unlock bespoke digital content relating to each item on touchscreen devices.
30 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Strategic Themes Intensify Accessories Capitalise on opportunities in under-penetrated accessory categories by combining Burberrys creative expertise and iconic branding with intensified investment in product development, sourcing and marketing.
31 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance 32 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Strategic Themes Accessories remained Burberrys largest product division, Eyewear contributing 39% of total retail wholesale revenue and A continued focus on product development recording underlying growth of 8%.
and distribution drove robust sales growth.
Product activity included the addition of two high-profile Key highlights from 2012 13 include: collections in the year.
The Aviator sunglasses collection was launched with a digitally-led music campaign, Mens accessories which included live performances by Burberry Acoustic Continued investments in product design, development bands in Milan, New York, Paris and Sydney.
Splash and marketing drove an increase in sales of over 30%, sunglasses were introduced at the womenswear and to account for nearly 20% of total mainline accessories menswear S S13 runway shows and featured in the main revenue.
Growth in this category was particularly strong advertising campaign.
in Asia Pacific and on burberry.
KPI: Growth in accessories revenue Year to 31 March Soft accessories Measures the success of Burberrys initiatives to expand Continued diversification and innovation in fabrications in this category, which includes large and small leather and prints, supported by enhanced visual merchandising, goods, scarves, shoes, belts and jewellery.
enabled outperformance in this key category.
Scarves, one of the largest trans-seasonal businesses, 734m 8% performed strongly, driven by a balanced offer across cashmere and lighter-weight blends.
2013 734 8% 2012 689 22% Large leather goods Accounting for around half of all mainline accessories 2011 563 32% revenue, large leather goods remained the backbone 2010 417 of this category.
Growth was driven by focused 2010 420 10% marketing of key fashion shapes and continued innovation 2009 366 12% in the core leather programme, including the launch of Revenue is retail wholesale only.
Growth rate is year-on-year underlying change i. e. at constant exchange rates.
2009 and 2010 include the results of the discontinued Spanish operations.
Following a successful launch in the womenswear A W12 collection, the Orchard bag was subsequently introduced as a replenishment style and became the brands second-best selling shape within a year.
Festive The seamless execution of giftable product was a focus throughout the year, with a particular emphasis on accessories.
New experiences were created on burberry.
com and brand marketing campaigns were synchronised across all platforms to drive awareness and sales growth around key global holiday periods.
Watches With the introduction of The Britain, Burberry took a major step in realigning its watches with the brands global luxury positioning.
Inspired by the iconic trench coat, the mechanical watch collection for men and women celebrated the brands values of functional design and craftsmanship.
The launch included a bespoke mobile experience, featuring a to-scale interactive 3D model of the watch displaying the users time, location and local weather conditions.
33 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Strategic Themes Accelerate retail-led growth Apply a dynamic digital retail mindset across the organisation and processes to drive growth in all distribution channels online and offline.
34 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance 35 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Strategic Themes Burberry finished the year with retail revenue up 12% KPI: Growth in retail revenue Year to 31 March and accounting for 71% of total revenue.
Includes comparable store sales growth measuring growth in productivity of existing stores, plus revenue Key highlights from 2012 13 include: from new space.
Driving productivity 1,417m 12% Burberry invested in enhanced training, physical and digital synchronisation and improved 2013 12% merchandising disciplines.
2012 31% Interactive training materials were rolled out, providing 2011 32% social and online learning tools to enhance the expertise 2010 15% of sales associates in delivering a seamless experience 2009 14% across physical and digital channels.
Comparable stores New space China acquisition Monthly floorsets and gifting strategies drove consistent Growth rate is year-on-year underlying change i. e. at constant exchange rates.
brand messaging across all customer touchpoints.
Comparable store sales growth is defined as the annual percentage increase in sales from stores that have been opened for more than 12 months, adjusted for closures and refurbishments.
Customer focus Investment in customer service continued with KPI: Number of stores As at 31 March the opening of a new service centre in Shanghai.
Measures the reach of Burberry directly-operated stores These facilities supported Burberry customers 24 7 around the world.
by phone, email, live chat in 11 languages and via a dedicated customer service Twitter account.
469 25 stores Global customer analytics and insight capabilities, together with the development of enhanced customer 2013 469 intelligence tools, began to drive deeper understanding 2012 444 of customer trends.
2011 417 Burberry Private Client teams, dedicated to offering 2010 312 exceptional service, continued to grow globally, 2010 440 with the investment focused in flagship markets.
2009 419 Real estate investment Mainline Concessions Outlets 13% increase in average space growth, focused 2009 and 2010 include the stores of the discontinued Spanish operations.
23 mainline stores were opened, including flagships in London, Chicago, Hong Kong and Milan.
Major renovations including Paseo fide Gracia Barcelona and Knightsbridge London were completed.
The first US retail concession was opened, occupying a three-storey space in the refurbished Macys Herald Square, New York.
External recognition Burberry was ranked second in Fast Company magazines Top 10 Most Innovative Companies in Retail for 2013.
The custom-designed Chicago flagship, Burberrys second-largest store in North America, was awarded 2013 Development of the Year by the Greater North Michigan Avenue Association.
36 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Strategic Themes Invest in under-penetrated Markets Focus on and invest in under-penetrated markets.
For Burberry, these include opportunities in both developed markets like the United States and the growth economies of China, India and the Middle East.
A range of distribution channels and business models are used to address these opportunities.
37 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance 38 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Strategic Themes Key highlights from 2012 13 include: Elevating wholesale presence Securing appropriate in-store locations and refining Engaging the Chinese luxury consumer assortments, Burberry made further progress in aligning Leveraging proprietary research into the Chinese luxury its wholesale presence with the global brand positioning.
consumer, Burberry refined services to these customers North American department stores performed strongly at home and abroad.
with further expansion of dedicated shop-in-shops.
Over 150 Mandarin-speaking sales associates were integrated into teams across top tourist destinations KPI: Number of stores in emerging markets outside Asia.
In China, a specialised sales and service As at 31 March Measures the reach of the Burberry brand programme was developed, enhancing the customer in these high potential countries.
experience and driving brand consistency.
173 19 stores Bespoke product assortments were developed for stores in China, key tourist destinations and on burberry.
com, to coincide with the Golden Week 2013 173 and Chinese New Year holidays.
2012 154 2011 136 The brands digital presence continued to be strengthened, engaging customers with dedicated 2010 111 content across multiple Chinese platforms.
2009 91 Emerging markets include: China, the Middle East, Eastern Europe, Russia, Brazil, India and other parts of South East Asia, South Africa Developing the Middle East and Latin America.
The store portfolio in the Middle East was extended with the opening of five new stores across Kuwait, UAE and Saudi Arabia.
Customised Eid Al Fitr and Eid Al Adha campaigns were introduced in-market and on burberry.
com, engaging customers at these peak gifting periods.
Building Central and Latin America The brands footprint in Latin America increased with the opening of four new stores in Brazil So Paulo, Recife and two in Rio fide Janeiro.
Leases were signed to open a planned three further retail stores in Antara, Santa Fe and Cancun.
New franchise agreements were signed for Colombia, Chile and Barbados.
Entering new markets Recognising the potential volatility in emerging markets, Burberry continued to work with franchisees and partners in countries where it has more limited experience, benefiting from local expertise.
During the year Burberry opened stores in five new markets: Jordan, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Estonia and Georgia.
39 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Strategic Themes Pursue Operational Excellence Continue to pursue operational excellence consistent with the brands product and marketing expertise.
40 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance 41 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Strategic Themes Burberry continued to drive operational improvements and Investment in UK manufacturing increased efficiency across all global functions, with a Additional capital investments in Castleford, the brands particular focus on technology, planning and supply chain.
heritage rainwear manufacturing facility, enabled seamless end-to-end product development and production, Key highlights from 2012 13 include: increasing accuracy and efficiency.
The Woodrow facility, where the brands iconic gabardine Technology investments fabric is woven, was renamed Burberry Mill to align the Process innovation site more closely with the brand.
Burberry Mill benefited Back office finance and HR functions continued to evolve from the integration of finance, HR and site management with enhanced governance, risk and compliance systems.
resources with Castleford during the year.
Automated and standardised processes were introduced to enable scalable growth and to support the incorporation KPI: Retail wholesale gross margin Year to 31 March of the Beauty division.
Measures, among other things, how effectively Burberry sources its products.
Technology was leveraged to enable the rapid delivery of consolidated data such as product details, customer 70.6% 250 bps and transaction information to front-end applications, including the development of an iPad-enabled digital catalogue for showrooms.
2013 70.6% 2012 68.1% Social entity 2011 64.9% Continued development and deployment of Burberrys 2010 61.0% internal communications portal connected and engaged 2010 59.7% employees worldwide with chat forums, video content 2009 52.1% and tailored working groups.
In November 2012, this was rolled out to select external partners, reinforcing and enhancing the connections KPI: Adjusted retail wholesale operating profit margin between the business and its global constituencies Year to 31 March and facilitating greater transparency, efficiency Measures how Burberrys initiatives and its investment and responsiveness.
to improve its business processes, including sourcing, IT and logistics are impacting its profit margin.
Planning Assortment planning and inventory management continued to improve, balanced by product division, 17.8% 140 bps label, category and price point.
The global brand buy, a common product assortment 2013 17.8% across Burberry stores, provided increased supply chain 2012 16.4% efficiency, while maintaining regional flexibility.
2011 15.6% 2010 12.7% Supply chain 2010 11.6% Optimising logistics 2009 9.8% Logistical enhancements were implemented to provide Adjusted operating profit margin is stated before exceptional items.
The regional distribution 2009 and 2010 include the results of the discontinued Spanish operations.
hub in Piacenza, Italy was expanded to optimise European logistics activities, while in Asia Pacific a new distribution centre in Kwai Chung, Hong Kong was opened to service China.
Digital commerce operations in Europe moved in-house, with all online customer orders fulfilled by the recently-enhanced UK distribution centre in Blyth.
42 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Great Brand, Great Company 45 Great Brand, Great Company 46 Burberry Beyond 49 Our People Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance 44 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance GReat brand, great company Burberry believes that to be a great brand, it must also be a great company.
Burberry constantly leverages the energy of its creative thinking culture for positive change, from its own organisation, to its business partnerships, wider community engagement and societal and environmental impact.
Commitment to its extended global community is at the heart of the Burberry core values: to Protect, Explore and Inspire, and the business strives to evolve its practices in line with these principles.
1% 830 65% 20% 1% of Group profit before Over 830 audits, visits and Tanneries supplying more Further 20% increase tax donated to charitable trainings conducted in the than 65% of accessories in uptake of global causes, the majority to the global supply chain leather are engaged in Sharesave Scheme Burberry Foundation Burberrys environmental management programme 8,000 155 700 8,000 hours dedicated to 155 young people 700 associates recognised volunteering by associates participated in Burberry for reaching Long Service in 55 cities Create, an immersive milestone anniversaries six-week creative training and employability programme, delivered by Burberry associates 45 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Great Brand, Great Company Burberry Beyond Burberry Beyond encompasses all activities relating to Burberrys commitment to driving positive social, cultural and environmental impact globally, underpinned by three pillars: Burberry Impact, Burberry Engage and Burberry Invest.
BURBERRY BURBERRY BURBERRY IMPACT ENGAGE INvEST Leveraging our creative Harnessing the passions Supporting and inspiring thinking culture to inspire and talents of Burberry the next generation sustainable action associates of creative thinkers Burberry Impact relationships.
Engagement activities included announced The Burberry Impact programme, covering ethical trade and unannounced audits: monitoring: continuous and environmental sustainability, was introduced as improvement programmes supported by third parties: and a five-year commitment to make meaningful and lasting the provision of training and confidential worker hotlines.
improvements to workers employment and workplace conditions, as well as to significantly reduce the companys Burberry continued to provide suppliers with the necessary environmental impact.
These commitments, informed tools and support to ensure compliance with the Burberry by baseline assessments, were developed in partnership Ethical Trading Policy, including the Burberry Ethical with Forum for the Future and with support from the Ethical Trading Code of Conduct.
The Code is underpinned by Trading Initiative.
The programme is supported by the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, an advisory committee of external expert stakeholders the fundamental conventions of the International Labour and the Burberry Strategic Responsibility Council.
Organisation and the Ethical Trading Initiative base code.
Burberry Impact has four areas of focus: people, product, Number of audits, supplier visits, training sessions, process and property.
improvement programme and hotline training visits People 839 11% Burberry expects all its suppliers to comply with local labour and environmental laws and the Burberry Ethical 2013 839 Trading Code of Conduct, providing their workers with 2012 756 safe working conditions and fair pay, and allowing them 2011 721 to exercise their right to freedom of association and collective bargaining.
Recognising the importance of workers in protecting Further integration of ethical trade principles into workplace rights, the rollout of NGO-run confidential worker commercial decision making continued to be a focus hotlines was extended.
Currently 70 factories offer hotline across the business, with opportunities identified access, giving 30,000 workers a free and confidential to improve labour standards through strong supplier consulting, counselling and whistleblowing line.
46 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Great Brand, Great Company Across its supply chain, Burberry endeavours to work Property through multi-stakeholder dialogue to contribute to Leveraging the sustainability expertise of the Burberry sustainable change.
Burberry continued to collaborate construction team is crucial to the continued pursuit with peers and stakeholders, including Business of more sustainable construction practices and energy for Social Responsibility and the UN Global Compact, efficiency in both existing and new buildings.
as well as through its membership of the tri-partite Ethical Trading Initiative.
Pilot energy saving schemes were introduced after store audits identified up to 65% kilowatt hours of potential Product energy savings in selected stores.
The new Chicago Burberry initiated an environmental baseline assessment flagship store achieved LEED Silver certification, using of both direct and indirect carbon dioxide equivalent CO e innovative technologies to increase efficiency.
2 impacts from raw materials, energy, water, chemical inputs and waste.
This detailed analysis enabled the identification Recognising that associate education and engagement of risks and priority areas for the business to focus reduction is critical to achieving Burberrys energy efficiency targets, efforts at a regional, functional and raw material level.
a training programme was established and supported by a global challenge encouraging the submission of creative Environmental Baseline Assessment ideas for sustainable action.
A W11 and S S13 as % of CO e 2 Global buildings energy CO 2 2% CO kgs per 1,000 turnover 2 10% 20% Raw materials 12% Finished raw materials 20 5% Manufacturing Distribution Corporate and Retail 2013 20 Consumer use 13% 2012 19 29% Packaging 2011 21 14% Burberry Engage Together, cotton and leather represent 57% of CO e from Leveraging core business competences and individual 2 Burberry raw materials.
Building collaborative partnerships talents in the communities where associates live and work with the suppliers of these materials is therefore critical remains a key objective.
Burberry continued to encourage to achieving Burberrys product commitments.
Working its associates to connect with the Burberry Beyond closely with other luxury brands and the Leather Working framework, extending its positive impact in new and Group, Burberry committed to monitoring and improving existing locations.
Eight taskforces were established to the environmental management and traceability in its dynamically embed the framework into ways of working leather supply chain, working with tanneries supplying across the global organisation.
more than 65% of accessories leather.
Associates were encouraged to dedicate their skills and Process passions during working hours to volunteering programmes, Burberry is committed to driving more sustainable harnessing their talents to give back to local communities.
outcomes throughout its worldwide operations.
2,300 associates in 55 cities dedicated over 8,000 hours to inspire young people in their local communities.
Reflecting its commitment to reducing energy consumption across the supply chain, Burberry conducted energy efficiency assessments at key vendor sites and distribution centres, which account for almost one-third of CO e 2 identified in the environmental baseline assessment.
47 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Great Brand, Great Company Employee volunteering hours Community donations Time volunteered by Burberry associates Direct contributions made by Burberry 8,000 45% 4.3m 16% 2013 8,000 2013 4.3 2012 5,500 2012 3.7 2011 3,700 2011 3.0 Burberry Invest Governance Burberry Invest supports innovative organisations A global governance system connects Burberrys global and programmes in Burberrys communities worldwide, community on people issues, ethical trading, community combining associates dedication, knowledge and creativity investment and environmental sustainability policies with corporate financial support and in-kind donations.
Burberry donates 1% of Group profits before tax to The Chief Corporate Affairs Officer is responsible for ethical charitable causes, the majority to the Burberry Foundation trade, community and environmental sustainability matters UK registered charity number 1123102, an independent and reports on these topics to the Group Risk Committee charity that aims to help young people realise their dreams and the Board.
He also chairs the Strategic Responsibility and potential through the power of their creativity.
Council and sits on the Supply Chain Risk Committee.
The Foundation has partnered with 32 charities to directly and indirectly inspire over 75,000 young people since An advisory board of external stakeholders was established it was established in 2008.
Today, the Foundation is active in 2012 to oversee the Burberry Impact Strategy for ethical in 14 cities around the world.
In addition to financial support, the Foundation made To reflect the Companys continued expansion, Burberry in-kind donations ranging from non-trademark fabric strengthened its health and safety team and resources and materials to assist young people enrolled in art globally.
Occupational health and safety compliance and design courses, to the annual Christmas Coat is reviewed tri-annually in stores and annually in offices Donation programme, benefiting disadvantaged young and supply chain sites.
All improvement plans are monitored people around the world.
Total coat donations since by the Global Health and Safety Committee, chaired its launch in 2008 reached 10,000. by the Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer.
The Foundation launched Burberry Create, a bespoke six External assurance and performance indicators to eight week creative training and employability programme, To provide confidence in the Burberry Beyond metrics, delivered by Burberry associates at corporate locations Burberry appointed Deloitte LLP to review selected worldwide.
Designed to leverage the full range of Burberrys sustainability key performance indicators denoted with competences to develop young peoples creative thinking and to provide limited assurance using the International and problem solving skills through practical work experience, Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000.
Deloitte business challenges and mentoring, the programme LLP has assertion tested the indicators denoted with.
enriched the lives of 155 young people in London, See the full independent assurance statement New York, Hong Kong, Shanghai and Beijing.
and the basis of reporting at www.
Burberry continued to support the next generation of creative talent through multi-year scholarship funds at the Royal College of Art in the UK and Ball State University in the US.
In response to the devastation caused by Hurricane Sandy in October 2012, the Burberry Foundation and its associates assisted with the rebuilding of lives and communities in the most impacted areas of New York and New Jersey.
48 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Great Brand, Great Company OUR People Burberry recognises that its people are its greatest asset and constantly strives to attract the best talent worldwide, to provide meaningful development opportunities at all levels and to reward and recognise high performance.
Recruit Reward Burberry maintained its commitment to diversity Burberry continued to strengthen the link between reward and equal opportunities in recruitment.
Nearly 10,000 and performance across the organisation, with all associates from over 100 countries are now employed associates in a bonus or incentive scheme and able to across all continents, with an age span from 16 to 77 share in the success of the business through the All and a global management team that is 37% female.
Accessibility was improved The diversity within the Burberry community underpins for the global SAYE programme, complementing existing its energy, vibrancy and connectedness.
online applications with the UK launch of text and telephone requests, which contributed to a 20% increase Following the establishment of a new Resourcing in global take-up.
Centre of Expertise in 2011 12, applications increased by 70% year-on-year and 82% of all recruitment globally The Icon Awards programme, which recognises exceptional was conducted directly.
performance at all levels of the company, reached its sixth anniversary.
A record 10,000 nominations were received Increased use of social media directly impacted these globally and 97 awards were presented across four regions, results.
On LinkedIn, Burberrys followers increased in categories inspired by the Burberry brand, heritage and by 250%, leading to applications from the site accounting core values.
for 6% of global direct recruitment.
In addition to being ranked LinkedIns 29th most in-demand employer globally, The Long Service Awards scheme celebrated the loyalty Burberry was the most-watched midsize company and commitment of around 700 associates who reached by UK students.
milestone service anniversaries with Burberry, including 15 associates with 30 years' service or more.
Retain Burberry continued to enhance its retail teams and secure Reinvent a talent pipeline for the future.
A pilot Retail Management A new, fully cross-functional and global team was Programme was launched to prepare retail associates established to integrate Beauty into the wider organisation.
for a career in store management, through a series This was achieved through strategic recruitment of Beauty of assignments, masterclasses and mentoring support.
expertise and the reallocation of talent within the business.
Regional accountability for organisational design and An extended and improved new associate on-boarding development was ensured, reflecting the diverse markets programme was rolled out in London, New York and Hong in which Burberry operates.
Kong, including regular and consistent pre-communication, defined training modules and in-depth insight into the The technology function was also evolved to support Burberry culture and values over a three-month period.
the Beauty integration, with strategic competences brought in-house.
The Burberry Leadership Council supported the development of 75 high potential associates towards becoming next-generation leaders through international networking opportunities, global strategy off-sites, mentoring from senior executives and leadership training workshops.
49 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance 50 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Financial Review 52 Group Financial Highlights Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Financial Review Group Financial Highlights Revenue Retail revenue 2012: 1,857m 2012: 1,270m 1,999m 8% 1,417m 12% Adjusted profit before tax Year end net cash 2012: 376m 2012: 338m 428m 14% 297m Adjusted diluted earnings per share Full year dividend per share 2012: 61.6p 2012: 25.0p 70.0p 14% 29.0p 16% Year to 31 March % change million 2013 2012 reported FX underlying Revenue 1,998.7 1,857.2 8 8 Cost of sales 556.7 558.3 0 2 Gross margin 1,442.0 1,298.9 11 11 Operating expenses 1,013.9 922.0 10 10 Adjusted operating profit 428.1 376.9 14 13 Net finance charge 0.3 0.7 Adjusted profit before taxation 427.8 376.2 14 13 Exceptional items 77.1 10.2 Profit before taxation 350.7 366.0 4 Taxation 91.5 100.6 Discontinued operations# 0.0 0.3 Non-controlling interest 4.9 1.8 Attributable profit 254.3 263.3 Adjusted EPS pence 70.0 61.6 EPS pence 57.0 59.3 Weighted average number of ordinary shares millions 446.5 444.3 Adjusted measures exclude exceptional items and discontinued operations.
Operating expenses in 2013 in the table above exclude a charge relating to the termination of the licence relationship of 82.9m 2012: nil and a restructuring credit of 0.6m 2012: nil included in the reported expenses of 1,096.2m 2012: 922.0m.
The net finance charge in 2013 in the table above excludes a 5.2m China put option liability finance credit 2012: 10.2m charge included in the reported net finance income of 4.9m 2012: 10.9m charge.
# Discontinued operations in Spain in 2013 delivered a nil profit 2012: loss of 0.3m.
EPS is presented on a diluted basis.
52 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Financial Review Revenue analysis Revenue by channel Year to 31 March % growth million 2013 2012 reported FX underlying Retail 1,416.6 1,270.3 12 12 Wholesale 472.7 478.3 1 1 Licensing 109.4 108.6 1 1 Revenue 1,998.7 1,857.2 8 8 Retail There was positive comparable store sales growth 71% of revenue 2012: 68% : generated from 206 mainline in all four regions during the year.
stores, 214 concessions within department stores, digital commerce and 49 outlets.
Asia Pacific Nearly 90% of Asia Pacific revenue came from retail.
China Retail sales increased by 12% on an underlying and Hong Kong both delivered double-digit comparable and reported FX basis.
store sales growth in the year, while Korea remained weak.
Comparable store sales increased by 5% H1: 3%: H2: 7%.
A net seven stores were opened in the region, focused on upgrading the store portfolio in China and in flagship markets New space contributed the balance of growth 7%.
including Hong Kong, with new stores in Pacific Place and Average retail selling space increased by 13% Russell Street.
Europe During FY 2013, retail trading was uneven, with comparable Retail accounted for nearly 70% of Europe revenue.
Following store sales growth of 6%, 1%, 6% and 8% by quarter, achieved a strong first quarter, comparable store sales growth was against double-digit growth throughout the previous year.
broadly unchanged for the remainder of the period.
France and Germany were robust and Italy remained weak.
The Product, marketing and customer service initiatives drove United Kingdom, Burberrys home market, accounted for strong performance in the second half festive periods over 40% of Europe retail revenue and delivered good including Christmas and Chinese New Year.
Digital was overall growth, driven by the investment in London stores further optimised, with innovative marketing and monthly Regent Street and Knightsbridge mens.
global messages leveraged and synchronised online and offline, responding to rapidly changing consumer behaviour.
New store openings were largely in flagship markets, including London, Milan and Rome, which typically benefit Overall, store traffic was soft, offset by increased more from travelling luxury customers.
conversion rates and higher average transaction values.
Online traffic and conversion were up significantly.
Americas About two-thirds of Americas revenue came from retail.
With continued focus on the execution of proven retail Low single-digit comparable store sales growth in the strategies, the drivers of growth were consistent with year was weighted towards the second half.
10% of Americas retail revenue came from outside the United States, with five stores in Canada, seven in Brazil Outerwear and large leather goods remained at about and two in Mexico at the year end.
Replenishment remained at about half of mainline revenue.
Store openings included the rebuilt Chicago flagship, a further store in San Francisco and four openings in Brazil.
Burberry Prorsum and London penetration increased by four percentage points to reach 49% of mainline Rest of World apparel revenue.
Retail accounted for nearly 60% of revenue for Rest of World, Mens and mens accessories accounted for over half with 30 stores at the year end 23 in the Middle East the growth in mainline revenue.
Although uneven, high single-digit comparable store sales growth was achieved in the year, led by India.
53 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Financial Review Wholesale Licensing 24% of revenue 2012: 26% : generated from sales 5% of revenue 2012: 6% : of which just over 60% is from to department stores, multi-brand specialty accounts, Japan split roughly 85% apparel and 15% from three 65 franchise stores and Travel Retail.
remaining short-term accessories licences, with the balance from global product licences fragrance, eyewear Wholesale revenue increased by 1% underlying and watches and European wholesale childrens.
Licensing revenue down 1% on an underlying basis H1: up 5% underlying: H2: down 3% underlying up 1% at reported FX.
Consistent with full year guidance.
Growth in North America, Asia Travel Retail and emerging markets offset by continued planned Fragrance and beauty taken in-house from 1 April 2013. account and product rationalisation.
At constant exchange rates, royalty income from Japan Outerwear and mens outperformed other products.
was down compared to last year.
Income from the apparel licence, which expires in June 2015, increased slightly, Asia Pacific reflecting higher minimum payments, offset by the planned Good growth was achieved during the year in Travel Retail, termination and downsizing of the remaining short-term despite weakness in Korea.
Europe Global product licences delivered double-digit percentage Europe remains the Groups largest wholesale region at growth.
Product launches included Body Tender fragrance, nearly 40% of wholesale revenue.
Revenue was impacted the Aviator and Splash sunglasses collections and by weak demand from domestic customers, especially in The Britain watch, starting the realignment of Burberry Italy, coupled with continuing planned rationalisation of watches with the brands luxury positioning.
small specialty accounts for brand and credit reasons.
Burberry began directly operating fragrance and beauty Americas from 1 April 2013.
The royalty revenue 27m in FY 2013 The Americas is about one-third of Group wholesale from this product category will no longer be received.
Sales to North American department store customers again performed strongly, despite the greater impact of withdrawing entry price point products in core accessories and outerwear than in other regions.
There was a further expansion of dedicated shop-in-shops during the year, reflecting brand segmentation initiatives with key customers.
Rest of World Wholesale revenue in Rest of World, which is mainly to franchise partners, saw good growth.
At the year end, Burberry had 65 franchise stores, a net increase of eight during the year, including in Jordan, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Estonia and Georgia.
54 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Financial Review Operating profit analysis Adjusted operating profit Year to 31 March % growth million 2013 2012 reported FX underlying Retail wholesale 335.6 286.9 17 17 Licensing 92.5 90.0 3 1 Adjusted operating profit 428.1 376.9 14 13 Adjusted operating margin 21.4% 20.3% Adjusted operating profit increased by 14% to 428.1m, including a 2.9m translation benefit.
Adjusted retail wholesale operating profit Year to 31 March % change million 2013 2012 reported FX Revenue 1,889.3 1,748.6 8 Cost of sales 556.7 558.3 0 Gross margin 1,332.6 1,190.3 12 Gross margin 70.6% 68.1% Operating expenses 997.0 903.4 10 Adjusted operating profit 335.6 286.9 17 Operating expenses as % of revenue 52.8% 51.7% Adjusted operating margin 17.8% 16.4% On 8% revenue growth, retail wholesale adjusted operating Licensing operating profit Year to 31 March profit increased 17% to 335.6m, resulting in a 140 basis million 2013 2012 point improvement in operating margin to 17.8%.
This Revenue 109.4 108.6 included a 12m benefit from a lower performance-related Cost of sales pay charge, due in part to the external environment being Gross margin 109.4 108.6 more challenging than budgeted.
Without this benefit, Gross margin 100% 100% adjusted operating margin would have been 17.1% compared Operating expenses 16.9 18.6 to 16.4% in FY 2012.
Operating profit 92.5 90.0 Operating margin 84.6% 82.9% Gross margin increased by 250 basis points, driven by modest price increases, FX benefits on sourcing, improved Licensing revenue declined by 1% on an underlying inventory management and the mix shift to retail.
With lower expenses, operating profit increased slightly to 92.5m, including The operating expenses to revenue ratio increased by 110 a 1.7m FX benefit.
basis points, driven in part by the shift to retail.
Of the 94m increase, over half related to net new space.
Spending by the largest corporate functions marketing, IT, product and design was tightly controlled, falling marginally as a percentage of sales, funding further investment in areas including digital.
55 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Financial Review Exceptional items Taxation Year to 31 March In FY 2013, Burberry had a tax charge of 91.5m million 2013 2012 2012: 100.6m, giving a tax rate on adjusted profit Termination of licence relationship 82.9 of 25.8% 2012: 26.7%.
Tax on exceptional items has Restructuring credit 0.6 been recognised as appropriate.
The resulting effective China put option liability finance credit charge 5.2 10.2 tax rate on reported profit is 26.1% 2012: 27.5%.
77.1 10.2 The tax rate on adjusted profit for FY 2014 is currently expected to be about 25%.
During the year, 82.9m has been recognised as an exceptional item relating to the termination of the Net cashflow fragrance and beauty licence relationship.
Cash inflow from operations was 523m, an increase of 40m over last year.
This funded significant investment Of the Euro 181m termination payment, 70.9m has been during the year, with capital expenditure of 176m capitalised as an intangible asset and will be amortised 2012: 153m and 144m to terminate the fragrance on a straight-line basis over the period 1 April 2013 to and beauty licence relationship.
This intangible asset relates to the were dividends 114m and tax 99m.
Net cash at present value of the anticipated incremental income from 31 March 2013 was 297m 2012: 338m.
fragrance and beauty which will be earned by the Group up to 31 December 2017.
The annual amortisation charge Inventory at 31 March 2013 was 351m.
Excluding Beauty is expected to be 15m.
9m, this was a 7% increase year-on-year at constant The remaining 71.3m has been recognised as exchange rates, compared to 12% retail sales growth.
an expense, together with related costs of 2.7m.
It is anticipated that this value will be recovered through increased income from fragrance and beauty beyond 31 December 2017.
Set up costs of 8.9m were incurred during the second half of the year as Burberry prepared for the transition to direct control.
These included marketing, product registration and headcount costs.
The restructuring credit of 0.6m relates to the release of a provision held in respect of the cost efficiency programme announced in January 2009.
The China put option liability finance credit charge relates to fair value movements on the put option liability over the non-controlling interest in the acquired Chinese business.
The credit in the full year was 5.2m 2012: 10.2m charge.
56 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Financial Review Outlook Licensing Retail In the year to 31 March 2013, licensing revenue, excluding In the year to 31 March 2014, Burberry plans to open 27m royalty income from fragrance and beauty, was 82m.
about 25 mainline stores and close about 15, while opening In the year to 31 March 2014, Burberry expects growth from about ten concessions and closing about the same number.
this level to be slightly positive at constant exchange rates Openings are biased towards the evolution of the portfolio and broadly unchanged at reported exchange rates, with in China and further expansion in Latin America.
Following the difference in growth rates largely reflecting the impact two years of above average space growth, net new openings of the Japanese Yen hedge rate.
are planned to contribute low to mid single-digit percentage growth to retail revenue in FY 2014.
In FY 2014, royalty income from Japan is expected to be broadly unchanged at constant exchange rates Wholesale year-on-year, with higher minimum payments from the Excluding Beauty, Burberry expects underlying wholesale apparel licence offset by ongoing rationalisation of the revenue to decrease by about 10% in the six months to three remaining accessories licences.
Wholesale customers product licences watches and eyewear are expected globally planned more conservatively for Autumn Winter to deliver double-digit percentage growth.
2013 and there is a continuing impact from Burberrys strategic rationalisation of wholesale accounts particularly Retail wholesale profit in Europe and entry price products particularly in For FY 2014, the aim is to modestly increase on the North America.
operating margin achieved in FY 2013, which was 17.1% without the 12m benefit of a lower performance-related In addition, and as previously guided, with Burberry directly pay charge.
Reflecting the evolution and phasing of the operating Beauty from 1 April 2013, wholesale revenue of business, adjusted PBT for the six months to 30 September about 140m and incremental retail wholesale operating 2013 is currently expected to be below the level of the prior profit of around 25m is still expected in FY 2014.
This will year 173m : be weighted towards the second half, reflecting the impact Revenue continues to be weighted to the second half.
in the first half of the move from licence to direct operation.
First half wholesale revenue, excluding Beauty, expected to be down 10% underlying, as guided.
H1 2012 benefited from a 15m lower performancerelated pay charge, as previously disclosed.
Beauty is expected to be dilutive in H1 2013, reflecting the short-term impact of the transition to direct operation.
Store portfolio Directly-operated stores Franchise Stores Concessions Outlets Total stores At 31 March 2012 192 208 44 444 57 Additions 23 22 10 55 11 Closures 9 16 5 30 3 At 31 March 2013 206 214 49 469 65 Store portfolio by region Directly-operated stores Franchise At 31 March 2013 Stores Concessions Outlets Total stores Asia Pacific 58 153 12 223 15 Europe 42 58 20 120 30 Americas 78 2 16 96 3 Rest of World 28 1 1 30 17 Total 206 214 49 469 65 Three franchise stores in the Americas are in Mexico.
57 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Corporate Governance 59 Board of Directors 61 Executive Team Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Corporate Governance Board Of Directors Chairman Non-Executive Directors Sir John Peace 64 Philip Bowman 60 Chairman Senior Independent Director Sir John Peace has been Chairman of the Board since June Philip Bowman was appointed as a non-executive director 2002 and is also Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
in June 2002 and is the Senior Independent Director and He is Chairman of Standard Chartered PLC and Experian plc.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Philip is Chief Executive Previously he was Group Chief Executive of GUS plc from of Smiths Group plc.
He previously held the positions 2000 until 2006.
Sir John is Lord-Lieutenant of Nottinghamshire of Chief Executive at Scottish Power plc and Chief and was knighted in 2011 for services to business and the Executive at Allied Domecq plc.
His earlier career included voluntary sector.
five years as a director of Bass plc.
He was previously Chairman of Liberty plc and Coral Eurobet plc and a nonExecutive Directors executive director of Scottish & Newcastle plc and British Angela Ahrendts 52 Sky Broadcasting Group plc.
Chief Executive Officer Angela Ahrendts became Chief Executive Officer in July Ian Carter 51 2006, having served as an executive director since January Non-Executive Director 2006.
Angela previously held various senior appointments, Ian Carter was appointed as a non-executive director in including the position of Executive Vice President at April 2007 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Liz Claiborne Inc between 1998 and 2006, Executive Vice He is President of Hilton Hotels Corporation Global President of Henri Bendel from 1996 to 1998 and President Operations.
Previously Ian was CEO of Hilton International of Donna Karan International from 1989 to 1996.
Company and Executive Vice President of Hilton Hotels Corporation, and a director of Hilton Group plc until the Stacey Cartwright 49 acquisition of Hilton International by Hilton Hotels Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Corporation in February 2006.
He previously served as Stacey Cartwright became Executive Vice President, an Officer and President of Black & Decker Corporation Chief Financial Officer in June 2008 having joined as Chief between 2001 and 2004.
Stacey is a non-executive director of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
She was previously Chief Stephanie George 56 Financial Officer at Egg plc and held various finance related Non-Executive Director positions at Granada Group plc.
Stacey will step down as a Stephanie George was appointed as a non-executive director at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on director in March 2006.
She also sits on the Board 12 July 2013, and will end her employment with the Group of Lincoln Center.
Previously Stephanie was Executive Vice on 31 July 2013.
President and Chief Marketing Officer at Time Inc. Before this, Stephanie spent 12 years at Fairchild Publications, John Smith 55 first as publisher of W magazine and then as President, Chief Operating Officer Womens Wear Daily Media Worldwide.
John Smith became Chief Operating Officer in March 2013, having previously been a non-executive director from David Tyler 60 December 2009.
John was Chief Executive of BBC Worldwide Non-Executive Director from 2004 to 2012.
John joined the BBC in 1989, where he David Tyler was appointed as a non-executive director held the positions of Chief Operating Officer, Director of in June 2002, having been a director of the Company since Finance, Property & Business Affairs and Finance Director.
He is currently Chairman of J Sainsbury plc and He previously served as a non-executive director of Severn Chairman of Hammerson plc.
David was Group Finance Trent plc and Vickers PLC, and on the Accounting Director of GUS plc from 1997 until its demerger in Standards Board from 2001 to 2004.
October 2006, Chairman of Logica plc from 2007 to 2012 and Chairman of 3i Quoted Private Equity plc from 2007 Key to membership of committees to 2009.
He was a non-executive director of Experian plc Audit Committee from 2006 to 2012 and Reckitt Benckiser Group plc from Nomination Committee 2007 to 2009.
Earlier in his career, David worked at Unilever Remuneration Committee plc, County NatWest Limited and Christies International plc.
Back row: Ian Carter, John Smith, Stephanie George, David Tyler, Philip Bowman Front row: Angela Ahrendts, Sir John Peace, Stacey Cartwright 59 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance 60 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Executive Team Executive Team Executive Directors Jon Ehlen Sarah Manley Senior Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer Angela Ahrendts Beauty & Partner Businesses, Matt McEvoy Chief Executive Officer Americas Senior Vice President, Strategy & New Business Stacey Cartwright Fabrizio Fabbro Development Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Product Development Marianne Naberhaus 1 Senior Vice President, John Smith Alessandro Fabrini Wholesale Americas Chief Operating Officer Senior Vice President, Licensing Karin Ong 2 Carol Fairweather Emilio Foa Chief Operations Officer, Chief Financial Officer Designate Chief Financial Officer, Asia Pacific Europe Senior Vice President, Senior Management Emerging Markets Stuart Pemble Chief Financial Officer, Marketing, Christopher Bailey Marco Gentile IT, CMD & Digital Commerce Chief Creative Officer Chief Operating Officer, Europe Senior Vice President, Pascal Perrier Roberto Canevari Southern Europe Chief Executive Officer, Chief Supply Chain Officer Asia Pacific Stephen Gilbert Simona Cattaneo Senior Vice President, Architecture Paul Price Senior Vice President, Beauty Chief Merchandising Officer 3 Jan Heppe Yvonne Chan President, Americas Edouard Roche Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President, Beauty & Partnership Business, Scott Jameson Merchandising Europe Asia Pacific Chief Financial Officer, Architecture Steve Sacks virginie Costa Donald Kohler Chief Customer Officer Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Planning Chief Operating Officer, Americas Mark Taylor Andrew Maag Chief People Officer John Douglas President, Europe & 4 Eugenia Ulasewicz Chief Technology Officer Emerging Markets President, Americas Ryad Djellas Michael Mahony 1.
Until 10 January 2013 Disclaimer This Annual Review does not constitute a summary financial statement for the purposes of sections 426-8 of the Companies Act 2006.
A copy of the Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 can be viewed free of charge, online at burberryplc.
This document contains certain statements that are forward-looking statements.
They appear in a number of places throughout this document and include statements regarding our intentions, beliefs or current expectations and those of our officers, directors and employees concerning, amongst other things, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the business we operate.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this document and unless otherwise required by applicable law the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this document should be construed as a profit forecast.
The Company and its directors accept no liability to third parties in respect of this document save as would arise under English law.
This document does not constitute an invitation to underwrite, subscribe for or otherwise acquire or dispose of any Burberry Group plc shares, in the UK, or in the US, or under the US Securities Act 1933 or any other jurisdiction.
61 Brand, Business, Burberry Group Strategic Great Brand, Financial Corporate Introduction Culture Overview Themes Great Company Review Governance Burberry.
