Shareholder Information Shareholder Information General shareholder enquiries Dividends Enquiries relating to shareholdings, such as the transfer An interim dividend for the financial year ended 31 March 2013 of shares, change of name or address, lost share certificates of 8.0p per ordinary share was paid on 25 January 2013. or dividend cheques, should be referred to the Companys A final dividend of 21.0p per share has been proposed and, Registrar, Equiniti, using the details below: subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 12 July 2013, will be paid according to the following timetable: Equiniti Aspect House Final dividend record date: 5 July 2013 Spencer Road Deadline for return of DRIP mandate forms: 11 July 2013 Lancing Final dividend payment date: 1 August 2013 West Sussex BN99 6DA The ADR local payment date will be approximately five business days after the proposed dividend payment date Tel: 0871 384 2839.
Calls cost 8p per minute plus for ordinary shareholders.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Dividends can be paid by BACS directly into a UK bank account, with the tax voucher being sent to the Please dial 44 121 415 7047 if calling from outside the shareholders address.
This is the easiest way for UK or see help.
co. uk for additional information.
shareholders to receive dividend payments and avoids the risk of lost or out of date cheques.
A dividend mandate American Depositary Receipts form is available from Equiniti or at shareview.
Burberry has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR programme to enable US investors to Dividends payable in foreign currencies purchase ADRs in US Dollars.
Each ADR represents Equiniti are able to pay dividends to shareholder bank two Burberry ordinary shares.
accounts in over 30 currencies worldwide through the Overseas Payment Service.
An administrative fee will For queries relating to ADRs in Burberry, please use the be deducted from each dividend payment.
Further details following contact details: can be obtained from Equiniti or online at shareview.
Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas Dividend Reinvestment Plan c o American Stock Transfer & Trust Company The Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP enables Peck Slip Station shareholders to use their dividends to buy further Burberry PO Box 2050 shares.
Full details of the DRIP can be obtained from Equiniti.
New York, NY 10272-2050 If shareholders would like their final 2013 and future dividends to qualify for the DRIP, completed application Tel: toll free within the US: 1 800 301 3517 forms must be returned to Equiniti by 11 July 2013.
Tel: International: 1 718 921 8137 Email enquiries: DB@amstock.
com Duplicate accounts Shareholders who have more than one account due Annual General Meeting to inconsistency in account details may avoid duplicate Burberrys Annual General Meeting will be held on Friday, mailings by contacting Equiniti and requesting 12 July 2013 at 9.30am at the offices of Slaughter and May: the amalgamation of their share accounts.
One Bunhill Row Electronic communication London Shareholders may at any time choose to receive all EC1Y 8YY shareholder documentation in electronic form via the internet, rather than in paper format.
Shareholders who The Notice of Meeting, together with details of the decide to register for this option will receive an email each business to be conducted at the meeting, is available time a shareholder document is published on the internet.
on the Companys website at burberryplc.
Shareholders who wish to receive documentation in electronic form should register online at shareview.
The voting results for the 2013 Annual General Meeting will be accessible on the Companys website at burberryplc.
com shortly after the meeting.
162 Shareholder Information Equiniti offers a range of shareholder information and services ShareGift online at shareview.
A textphone facility for those with Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value hearing difficulties is available by calling: 0871 384 2255. of which makes them uneconomic to sell, may wish to Calls cost 8p per minute plus network extras.
Lines are consider donating their shares to charity through ShareGift, open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Please call a donation scheme operated by The Orr Mackintosh 44 121 415 7028 if calling from outside the UK.
A ShareGift donation form can be obtained from Equiniti.
Further information is available at Financial calendar sharegift.
First quarter trading update 10 July 2013 Annual General Meeting 12 July 2013 Share price information First half trading update October 2013 The latest Burberry Group plc share price is available Interim results announcement November 2013 on the Companys website at burberryplc.
Third quarter trading update January 2014 Second half trading update April 2014 Unauthorised brokers boiler room scams Preliminary results announcement May 2014 Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free Registered office company reports.
These are typically from overseas-based Burberry Group plc brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them Horseferry House what often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in Horseferry Road USA or UK investments.
These operations are commonly London known as boiler rooms.
SW1P 2AW If you receive any unsolicited investment advice, get the Registered in England and Wales correct name of the person and organisation and check Registered Number 03458224 that they are properly authorised by the FCA before getting burberryplc.
com involved by visiting www.
uk register Share dealing If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible Burberry Group plc shares can be traded through to receive payment under the Financial Services most banks, building societies or stock brokers.
Compensation Scheme if things go wrong.
Equiniti offers a telephone and internet dealing service.
Terms and conditions and details of the commission If you think you have been approached by an unauthorised charges are available on request.
firm you should contact the FCA consumer helpline on 0800 111 6768.
For telephone dealing please telephone 08456 037 037 between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for More detailed information can be found on the FCA internet dealing visit shareview.
uk consumers protect-yourself will need their reference number which can be found unauthorised-firms.
Website This Annual Report and other information about Burberry, including share price information and details of results announcements, are available at burberryplc.
Disclaimer The purpose of this document is to provide information to the members of Burberry Group plc.
This document contains certain statements that are forward-looking statements.
They appear in a number of places throughout this document and include statements regarding our intentions, beliefs or current expectations and those of our officers, directors and employees concerning, amongst other things, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the business we operate.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this document and unless otherwise required by applicable law the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this document should be construed as a profit forecast.
The Company and its directors accept no liability to third parties in respect of this document save as would arise under English law.
This document does not constitute an invitation to underwrite, subscribe for or otherwise acquire or dispose of any Burberry Group plc shares, in the UK, or in the USA, or under the USA Securities Act 1933 or any other jurisdiction.
