ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Share fraud warning The 2014 annual general meeting AGM will be held on In recent years many companies have become aware Wednesday, 21 May 2014 at 11.00am at The Honourable that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone Artillery Company, Armoury House, City Road, London calls or correspondence concerning investment matters EC1Y 2BQ.
The AGM provides Legal & General with the which imply a connection to the company concerned.
opportunity to meet its shareholders.
The Board regards These are typically from overseas-based brokers who the AGM as an important opportunity to communicate target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often directly with private investors.
The Notice of Meeting turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or and all other details for the AGM are available at UKinvestments.
They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
DIVIDEND INFORMATION 5,000 people contact the Financial Conduct Authority Dividend per share FCA about share fraud each year, with victims losing This year the directors are recommending the payment anaverage of 20,000.
It is not just the novice investor of a final dividend of 6.90p per share.
If you add this that has been duped in this way: many of the victims to your interim dividend of 2.40p per share, the total hadbeen successfully investing for several years.
dividend recommended for 2013 will be 9.30p per share Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited 2012: 7.65p per share.
The key dates for the payment advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers ofdividends are set out in the important dates section of free reports into the company.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice, DIVIDEND PAYMENTS makesure you get the correct name of the person and Legal & General is keen to encourage all its shareholders organisation and make a record of any other information to have their dividends paid directly into a bank or they give you, e. g. telephone number, address, etc.
If you would like more details or a dividend mandate form, please contact our registrar.
Check that they are properly authorised by the FCA before getting involved.
You can check at Details of how to contact the registrar can be found on fca.
uk register the opposite page and on our website.
The FCA also maintains on its website a list of DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN unauthorised overseas rms who are targeting, or have The Legal & General dividend reinvestment plan DRIP targeted, UK investors and any approach from such enables shareholders to use their cash dividends to organisations should be reported to the FCA so that this purchase Legal & General Group Plc shares.
If you list can be kept up to date and any other appropriate action would like more details, please contact our registrar.
If you deal with an unauthorised rm, you would not be eligible to receive payment under the Alternatively, the DRIP booklet and mandate form Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Contact can be found in the investors section of the website.
details for the FCA can be found on the FCAs website www.
uk site-info contact COMMUNICATIONS Internet Inform our registrar, Capita Asset Services, on Information about the company, including details of 08714023341.
They are not able to investigate such the current share price, is available on the website, incidents themselves but will record the details and legalandgeneralgroup.
pass them on to us and liaise with the FCA.
Investor relations Details of any sharedealing facilities that the company Private investors should contact the registrar with endorses will be included in company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar Institutional investors can contact the investor relations activitycanbe found on the FCA website team by email: investor.
indd 266 14 03 2014 21:23 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS FINANCIAL REPORTS together with the appropriate share transfer form.
The companys financial reports are available on The booklet and the share transfer form are also the website.
The annual report and accounts are available in the Investors section of the website.
sent to those shareholders who have elected to receive paper copies.
Alternatively, shareholders may elect SHARE PORTAL to receive notication by email by registering on Share portal allows you to view your Legal & General www.
If you receive more than shareholding on the internet.
Registering is easy: simply one copy of our communications, it could be because log on to www.
com and follow the you have more than one record on the share register.
You will need your Shareholder Investor Toavoid duplicate mailings, please contact the registrar, Code, which can be found on your share certicate, who can arrange for your accounts to be amalgamated.
dividend statement or proxy form.
If you have any queries, please call the shareholder helpline.
REGISTRAR You can contact our registrar: SHARE DEALING SERVICE A quick and easy share dealing service is provided by By post: Capita Asset Services, The Registry, Capita Share Dealing Services to sell or buy shares in 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
Legal & General and any other leading UK companies.
Further information is available online at By telephone: 0871 402 3341.
If calling from outside www.
GENERAL INFORMATION Calls to this number cost 8p per minute plus network extras.
Lines are open 8.30am Capital gains tax: For the purpose of calculating UK to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
capital gains tax, the market value on 31 March 1982 of each share was 7.996p, after adjusting for the 1986 By email: landgshares@capita.
co. uk capitalisation issue and the 1996 and 1999 sub-divisions, but not reecting any rights taken up under the 2002 The registrar also provides the following services: rights issue.
CORPORATE SPONSORED NOMINEE Close company provisions: The company is not The corporate sponsored nominee allows you to a close company within the terms of the Corporation holdshares in Legal & General without the need for a Tax Act 2010. share certicate and enables you to benefit from shorter market settlement periods.
Individual shareholders Registered ofce: One Coleman Street, London EC2R holdtheir Legal & General shares in a nominee holding 5AA.
Registered in England and Wales, No.
01417162. registered in the name of Capita IRG Trustees Nominees Limited.
To join or obtain further information contact the Shareholder offer line: For details of shareholder registrar.
They will send you a booklet, outlining the terms offers on Legal & General products call 0500 65 5555. and conditions under which your shares will be held, IMPORTANT DATES: 23 April 2014 Ex-dividend date final dividend 15 May 2014 Last day for DRIP elections 21 May 2014 Annual General Meeting 4 June 2014 Payment of final dividend for 2013 to members registered on 25 April 2014 6 August 2014 Half year results 2014 27 August 2014 Ex-dividend date interim dividend 1 October 2014 Payment of interim dividend for 2014 to members registered on 29 August 2014 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 267 80038 L&G p262-268.
