Shareholder information 378 Lloyds Banking Group L Llo loy yd ds s B Ba an nk ki in ng g G Grou roup p Forward looking statements 380 380 3 381 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 A Annu nnua al l R Re ep por ort t a and nd A Ac cc co oun unfit ts s 2 20 01 13 3 Glossary 381 Abbreviations 387 Index to annual report 388 1 44 69 123 197 G Gl lO OS SS SA AR RY Y Arrears A customer is in arrears when they are behind in fulfilling their obligations with the result that an outstanding loan is unpaid or overdue.
Such a customer is also said to be in a state of delinquency and the entire outstanding balance is delinquent.
Asset-Backed commercial See Commercial Paper paper Asset-Backed Securities ABS Asset-backed securities are securities that represent an interest in an underlying pool of referenced assets.
The referenced pool can comprise any assets which attract a set of associated cash flows but are commonly pools of residential or commercial mortgages but could also include leases, credit card receivables, motor vehicles, student loans.
Further information on the Groups investments in ABS is given in note 54.
Asset Quality Ratio The impairment charge for the year in respect of loans and advances to customers expressed as a percentage of average loans and advances to customers.
Bank levy The levy that applies to certain uK banks, uK building societies and the uK operations of foreign banks from 1 January 2011.
The levy is payable based on a percentage of the chargeable equity and liabilities of the bank as at the balance sheet date.
Basel II The capital adequacy framework issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in June 2006 in the form of the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards.
Basel III The capital reforms and introduction of a global liquidity standard proposed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in 2010 and due to be phased in, through CRD IV, from 1 January 2014 onward.
Basis point One hundredth of a per cent 0.01 per cent.
used in quoting movements in interest rates or yields on securities.
Buy-to-let mortgages Buy-to-let mortgages are those mortgages offered to customers purchasing residential property as a rental investment.
Central Counterparty CCP An institution mediating between the buyer and the seller in a financial transaction, such as a derivative contract or repurchase agreement repo.
Where a CCP is used, a single bilateral contract between the buyer and the seller is replaced with two contracts, one between the buyer and the CCP and one between the CCP seller.
Collateralised Debt Obligation A security issued by a third party which references ABSs or other assets purchased by the issuer.
CDO lloyds Banking Group has invested in instruments issued by other banking groups, including Collateralised loan Obligations and Commercial Real estate CDOs.
Collateralised Loan Obligation A security backed by the repayments from a pool of commercial loans.
ClOs are usually structured CLO products with different tranches whereby senior classes of holder receive repayment before other tranches are repaid.
Collectively assessed loan A provision established following an impairment assessment on a collective basis for homogeneous groups impairment provision of loans, such as credit card receivables and personal loans, that are not considered individually significant and for loan losses that have been incurred but not separately identified at the balance sheet date.
Commercial Mortgage-Backed Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities are securities that represent interests in a pool of commercial Securities CMBS mortgages.
Investors in these securities have the right to cash received from mortgage repayments of interest and principal.
Commercial Paper Commercial paper is an unsecured promissory note issued to finance short-term credit needs.
It specifies the face amount paid to investors on the maturity date.
Commercial paper can be issued as an unsecured obligation of the Group or, for example when issued by the Groups conduits, as an asset-backed obligation in such case it is referred to as asset-backed commercial paper.
Commercial paper is usually issued for periods from as little as a week up to nine months.
Commercial Real Estate Commercial real estate includes office buildings, industrial property, medical centres, hotels, malls, retail stores, shopping centres, farm land, multifamily housing buildings, warehouses, garages, and industrial properties.
Common equity tier 1 capital The highest quality form of regulatory capital under CRD IV that comprises common shares issued and CET1 related share premium, retained earnings and other reserves excluding the cash flow hedging reserve, less specified regulatory adjustments.
Conduits A financial vehicle that holds asset-backed securities which are financed with short-term deposits generally commercial paper that use the asset-backed securities as collateral.
The conduit will often have a liquidity line provided by a bank that it can draw down on in the event that it is unable to issue funding to the market.
The Group sponsors three asset-backed conduits, Argento, Cancara and Grampian.
Further details are provided in note 22.
Contractual maturities Contractual maturity refers to the final payment date of a loan or other financial instrument, at which point all the remaining outstanding principal will be repaid and interest is due to be paid.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 382 383 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 GlOSSARY Core tier 1 capital As defined by the PRA mainly comprising shareholders equity and equity non-controlling interests after deducting goodwill, other intangible assets and other regulatory deductions.
Further details are given in the Capital Risk section on page 178.
Core tier 1 ratio Core tier 1 capital as a percentage of risk-weighted assets.
Cost:Income ratio Operating expenses compared to total income net of insurance claims.
The Group calculates this ratio using the underlying basis which is the basis on which financial information is reported internally to management.
Counterparty credit risk Counterparty credit risk is the risk that the counterparty to a transaction could default before the final settlement of the transactions cash flows.
Such transactions relate to contracts for financial instruments and may include derivative contracts and repo contracts.
Coverage ratio Impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans.
Covered mortgage bonds A bond backed by a pool of mortgage loans.
The mortgages remain on the issuers balance sheet.
The issuing bank can change the make-up of the loan pool or the terms of the loans to preserve credit quality.
CRD IV On 27 June 2013, the european Commission published, through the official journal of the european union, its legislation for a Capital Requirements Directive CRD and Capital Requirements Regulation CRR, which form the CRD IV package.
Amendments were subsequently made to the Regulation trough the corrigenda published on 30 november 2013.
The package implements the Basel III proposals in addition to the inclusion of new proposals on sanctions for non-compliance with prudential rules, corporate governance and remuneration.
The rules are set to be implemented from 1 January 2014 onwards, with certain sections set to be phased in.
Credit Default Swap A credit default swap is a type of credit derivative.
It is an arrangement whereby the credit risk of an asset the reference asset is transferred from the buyer to the seller of protection.
The entity selling protection receives premium or interest-related payments in return for contracting to make payments to the protection buyer upon a defined credit event.
Credit events normally include bankruptcy, payment default on a reference asset or assets, or downgrades by a rating agency.
Credit derivatives A credit derivative is a financial instrument that derives its value from the credit rating of an underlying instrument carrying the credit risk of the issuing entity.
The principal type of credit derivatives are credit default swaps, which are used by the Group as part of its trading activity and to manage its own exposure to credit risk.
Credit risk The risk that parties with whom the Group has contracted fail to meet their obligations both on and off-balance sheet.
Credit risk spread or credit The credit spread is the yield spread between securities with the same currency and maturity structure spread but with different associated credit risks, with the yield spread rising as the credit rating worsens.
It is the premium over the benchmark or risk-free rate required by the market to take on a lower credit quality.
Credit valuation adjustments These are adjustments to the fair values of derivative assets to reflect the creditworthiness of the counterparty.
Further details are given in note 53.
Customer deposits Money deposited by account holders.
Such funds are recorded as liabilities of the Group.
The Group includes certain repos within customer deposits.
Debt restructuring This is when the terms and provisions of outstanding debt agreements are changed.
This is often done in order to improve cash flow and the ability of the borrower to repay the debt.
It can involve altering the repayment schedule as well as reducing the debt or interest charged on the loan.
Debt securities Debt securities are assets held by the Group representing certificates of indebtedness of credit institutions, public bodies or other undertakings, excluding those issued by Central Banks.
Debt securities in issue These are unsubordinated debt securities issued by the Group.
They include commercial paper, certificates of deposit, bonds and medium-term notes.
Embedded equity conversion An embedded equity conversion feature is a derivative contained within the terms and conditions of a feature debt instrument that enables or requires the instrument to be converted into equity under a particular set of circumstances.
The Groups enhanced Capital notes eCns contain such a feature whereby these notes convert to ordinary shares in the event that the consolidated core tier 1 ratio of the Group falls below 5 per cent.
Enhanced Capital Notes ECNs The Groups eCns are subordinated notes issued by the Group that contain an embedded equity conversion feature.
Further details of these are given in note 44.
Shareholder information 378 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Forward looking statements 380 382 383 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Glossary 381 Abbreviations 387 Index to annual report 388 1 44 69 123 197 Enterprise Risk Management As defined by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission COSO enterprise Risk Management is a process, effected by an entitys board of directors, management and other personnel, applied in strategy setting and across the enterprise, designed to identify potential events that may affect the entity, and manage risks to be within its risk appetite, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of entity objectives.
Expected loss This is the amount of loss that can be expected by the Group calculated in accordance with PRA rules.
In broad terms it is calculated by multiplying the Default Frequency by the Loss Given Default by the Exposure at Default.
Equity risk The financial risk involved in holding equity in a particular investment.
Exposure at Default An estimate of the amount expected to be owed by a customer at the time of the customers default.
Fair value adjustment Fair value adjustments arise on acquisition when assets and liabilities are acquired at fair values that are different from the carrying values in the acquired company.
In respect of the Groups acquisition of HBOS the principal adjustments were write-downs in respect of loans and advances to customers and debt issued.
Financial Services The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS is the uKs independent statutory compensation Compensation Scheme FSCS fund for customers of authorised financial services firms and pays compensation if a firm is unable to pay claims against it.
The FSCS is funded by management expenses levies and, where necessary, compensation levies on authorised firms.
First Second lien A first lien gives the holder usually the bank lending the funds the first right to collect compensation from the sale of the underlying collateral in the event of a default on the loan.
A second lien may be issued against the same collateral but in the case of default, compensation for this debt will only be received after the first lien has been repaid.
Forbearance Forbearance takes place when a concession is made on the contractual terms of a loan in response to an obligors financial difficulties.
Full time equivalent A full time employee is one that works a standard five day week.
The hours or days worked by part time employees are measured against this standard and accumulated along with the number of full time employees and counted as full time equivalents.
This is a more consistent measure of the amount of time worked than employee numbers which will fluctuate as the mix of part-time and full-time employees changes.
Funded unfunded exposures exposures where the notional amount of the transaction is either funded or unfunded.
Funding risk The risk that the Group does not have sufficiently stable and diverse sources of funding or the funding structure is inefficient.
Guaranteed mortgages Mortgages for which there is a guarantor to provide the lender a certain level of financial security in the event of default of the borrower.
Home loans A loan to purchase a residential property which is then used as collateral to guarantee repayment of the loan.
The borrower gives the lender a lien against the property, and the lender can foreclose on the property if the borrower does not repay the loan per the agreed terms.
Impaired loans Impaired loans are loans where the Group does not expect to collect all the contractual cash flows or to collect them when they are contractually due.
Impairment allowances Impairment allowances are a provision held on the balance sheet as a result of the raising of a charge against profit for the incurred loss inherent in the lending book.
An impairment allowance may either be individual or collective.
Impairment losses An impairment loss is the reduction in value that arises following an impairment review of an asset that determines that the assets value is lower than its carrying value.
For impaired financial assets measured at amortised cost, impairment losses are the difference between the carrying value and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
Impairment losses can be difficult to assess and the critical accounting estimates and judgements in note 3 detail the key assessments made when determining impairment losses.
Individually Collectively Impairment is measured individually for assets that are individually significant, and collectively where a Assessed portfolio comprises homogenous assets and where appropriate statistical techniques are available.
Individually assessed loan Impairment loss provisions for individually significant impaired loans are assessed on a case-by-case impairment provisions basis, taking into account the financial condition of the counterparty, any guarantor and the realisable value of any collateral held.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk in arises from the different repricing characteristics of the Groups non-trading assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet positions of the Group.
Interest rate risk arises predominantly from the mismatch between interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities, but also to the investment term of capital and reserves, and the need to minimise income volatility.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 384 385 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 GlOSSARY Internal Capital Adequacy The Groups own assessment, based on Basel II requirements, of the levels of capital that it needs to hold Assessment Process ICAAP in respect of its regulatory capital requirements for credit, market and operational risks and for other risks including stress events as they apply on a solo level and on a consolidated level.
Internal Ratings-Based A methodology of estimating the credit risk within a portfolio by utilising internal risk parameters to approach IRB calculate credit risk regulatory capital requirements.
There are two approaches to IRB: Foundation IRB and Advanced IRB.
Investment grade This refers to the highest range of credit ratings, from AAA to BBB as measured by external credit rating agencies.
ISDA International Swaps A standardised contract developed by the ISDA which is used as an umbrella contract for bilateral and Derivatives Association derivative contracts.
master agreement Level 1 fair value level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for measurements identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 fair value level 2 fair value measurements are those where quoted market prices are not available, for example measurements where the instrument is traded in a market that is not considered to be active, or where valuation techniques are used to determine fair value and where these techniques use inputs that are based significantly on observable market data.
Level 3 fair value level 3 fair value measurements are those where at least one input which could have a significant effect measurements on the instruments valuation is not based on observable market data.
Leverage finance Funding provided for entities with higher than average indebtedness, which typically arises from sub-investment grade acquisitions or event-driven financing.
Leverage ratio Tier 1 capital divided by the exposure measure.
Basel III reforms introduced a leverage ratio framework designed to reinforce risk based capital requirements with a simple, transparent, non-risk based backstop measure.
Liquidity and Credit Credit enhancement facilities are used to enhance the creditworthiness of financial obligations and cover enhancements losses due to asset default.
Two general types of credit enhancement are third-party loan guarantees such as guaranteed mortgages and self-enhancement through over collateralisation in the case of covered mortgage bonds.
liquidity enhancement makes funds available if required, for other reasons than asset default, eg to ensure timely repayment of maturing commercial paper.
Liquidity Coverage Ratio LCR The ratio of the stock of high quality liquid assets to expected net cash outflows over the following 30 days.
High quality liquid assets should be unencumbered, liquid in markets during a time of stress and ideally, be central bank eligible.
Liquidity risk The risk that the Group has insufficient financial resources to meet its commitments as they fall due, or can only secure them at excessive cost.
Loan to deposit ratio The ratio of loans and advances to customers net of allowance for impairment losses and excluding reverse repurchase agreements divided by customer deposits excluding repurchase agreements.
Loan-to-value ratio LTV The loan-to-value ratio is a mathematical calculation which expresses the amount of a mortgage balance outstanding as a percentage of the total appraised value of the property.
A high lTV indicates that there is less value to protect the lender against house price falls or increases in the loan if repayments are not made and interest is added to the outstanding balance of the loan.
Loans past due loans are past due when a counterparty has failed to make a payment when contractually due.
Loss emergence period The loss emergence period is the estimated period between impairment occurring and the loss being specifically identified and evidenced by the establishment of an appropriate impairment allowance.
Loss Given Default The estimated loss that will arise if a customer defaults.
It is calculated after taking account of credit risk mitigation and includes the cost of recovery.
Market risk The risk that unfavourable market moves including changes in and increased volatility of interest rates, market-implied inflation rates, credit spreads and bond prices, foreign exchange rates, equity, property and commodity prices and other instruments lead to reductions in earnings and or value.
Master netting agreement An agreement between two counterparties that have multiple derivative contracts with each other that provides for the net settlement of all contracts through a single payment, in a single currency, in the event of default on, or termination of, any one contract.
Medium Term Notes Medium term notes are a form of corporate borrowing covering maturity periods ranging from nine months to 30 years.
Details of the notes issued under the Groups medium term notes programmes are given in note 35.
Monolines A monoline insurer is defined as an entity which specialises in providing credit protection to the holders of debt instruments in the event of default by the debt security counterparty.
This protection is typically provided in the form of derivatives such as credit default swaps referencing the underlying exposures held.
Mortgage-backed securities See Residential and Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities.
Shareholder information 378 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Forward looking statements 380 384 385 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Glossary 381 Abbreviations 387 Index to annual report 388 1 44 69 123 197 Mortgage related assets Assets which are referenced to underlying mortgages.
Mortgage vintage The year the mortgage was issued.
Negative basis bonds ABS held with a separately purchased matching credit default swaps to protect against the risk of default of the security.
The Group refers to ABS without the benefit of CDS protection as Uncovered ABS.
Negative equity mortgages negative equity occurs when the value of the property purchased using the mortgage is below the balance outstanding on the loan.
negative equity is the value of the asset less the outstanding balance on the loan.
Net asset value per ordinary Shareholders' equity divided by the number of ordinary shares and limited voting ordinary shares in issue, share adjusted to exclude shares held under certain employee share ownership plans.
Net Stable Funding Ratio The ratio of available stable funding to required stable funding over a one year time horizon, assuming a NSFR stressed scenario.
The ratio is required to be over 100% with effect from 2018.
Available stable funding would include such items as equity capital, preferred stock with a maturity of over 1 year, or liabilities with a maturity of over 1 year.
Net interest income The difference between interest received on assets and interest paid on liabilities.
Net interest margin net interest margin is net interest income as a percentage of average interest-earning assets.
Details of the Groups banking net interest margin are given on page 66.
Operational risk The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events.
Over-the-counter derivatives Over-the-counter derivatives are derivatives for which the terms and conditions can be freely negotiated by the counterparties involved, unlike exchange traded derivatives which have standardised terms.
Prime mortgages Prime mortgages are those granted to the most creditworthy category of borrower.
Private equity investments Private equity is equity securities in operating companies not quoted on a public exchange.
Investment in private equity often involves the investment of capital in private companies or the acquisition of a public company that results in the delisting of public equity.
Capital for private equity investment is raised by retail or institutional investors and used to fund investment strategies such as leveraged buyouts, venture capital, growth capital, distressed investments and mezzanine capital.
Probability of default The likelihood that a customer will default on their obligation within the next year.
Regulatory capital The amount of capital that the Group holds, determined in accordance with rules established by the PRA for the consolidated Group and by local regulators for individual Group companies.
Renegotiated loans loans and advances are generally renegotiated either as part of an ongoing customer relationship or in response to an adverse change in the circumstances of the borrower.
In the latter case renegotiation can result in an extension of the due date of payment or repayment plans under which the Group offers a concessionary rate of interest to genuinely distressed borrowers.
This will result in the asset continuing to be overdue and will be impaired where the renegotiated payments of interest and principal will not recover the original carrying amount of the asset.
In other cases, renegotiation will lead to a new agreement, which is treated as a new loan.
Repurchase agreements Short-term funding agreements which allow a borrower to sell a financial asset, such as ABS or or repos Government bonds as collateral for cash.
As part of the agreement the borrower agrees to repurchase the security at some later date, usually less than 30 days, repaying the proceeds of the loan.
Residential Mortgaged-Backed Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities are a category of ABS.
They are securities that represent Securities RMBS interests in a group of residential mortgages.
Investors in these securities have the right to cash received from future mortgage payments interest and or principal.
Retail loans Money loaned to individuals rather than institutions.
These include both secured and unsecured loans such as mortgages and credit card balances.
Risk appetite The amount and type of risk that the Group is prepared to seek, accept or tolerate.
Risk-weighted assets A measure of a banks assets adjusted for their associated risks.
Risk weightings are established in accordance with the Basel Capital Accord as implemented by the PRA.
Securitisation Securitisation is a process by which a group of assets, usually loans, are aggregated into a pool, which is used to back the issuance of new securities.
Securitisation is the process by which ABS are created.
A company sells assets to a special purpose entity which then issues securities backed by the assets.
This allows the credit quality of the assets to be separated from the credit rating of the original company and transfers risk to external investors.
Assets used in securitisations include mortgages to create mortgage-backed securities or Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities as well as Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities.
The Group has established several securitisation structures as part of its funding and capital management activities.
These generally use mortgages, corporate loans and credit cards as asset pools.
A listing of these programmes by type with the amounts secured and associated funding raised is given in note 21.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 386 387 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 GlOSSARY KPIs Key Performance Indicators Sovereign Exposures exposures to central governments and central government departments, central banks and entities owned or guaranteed by the aforementioned.
LCR liquidity Coverage Ratio Specialist mortgages Specialist mortgages include those mortgage loans provided to customers who have self-certified their LDC lloyds Development Capital income normally as a consequence of being self-employed or who are otherwise regarded as a sub-prime LIBOR london Inter-Bank Offered Rate credit risk.
new mortgage lending of this type has not been offered by the Group since early 2009.
LMI line Manager Index Standardised Approach In relation to credit risk, a method for calculating credit risk capital requirements using external Credit LP&I life, Pensions and Investments Assessment Institutions eCAI ratings of obligors where available and supervisory risk weights.
In LTIP long-Term Incentive Plan relation to operational risk, a method of calculating the operational risk capital requirement by the application of a supervisory defined percentage charge to the gross income of specified business lines.
LTV loan-to-value Stress testing Stress and scenario testing is the term used to describe techniques where plausible events are considered MIF Multilateral Interchange Fee as vulnerabilities to ascertain how this will impact the capital resources which are required to be held.
NPS net Promoter Score Structured entities SEs Ses are entities that have been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in NSFR net Stable Funding Ratio determining who controls the entity, such as when voting rights relate to administrative tasks only and the OEICs Open ended Investment Companies relevant activities are directed by means of contractual arrangements.
Ses often have specific restrictions OFT Office of Fair Trading around their ongoing activities and are created to accomplish a narrow and well-defined objective.
PEI Performance excellence Index Sub-investment grade This refers to credit ratings issued by external credit rating agencies that are below BBB grade or its equivalent.
PFI Private Finance Initiative Subordinated liabilities liabilities which, in the event of insolvency or liquidation of the issuer, are subordinated to the claims of PPI Payment Protection Insurance depositors and other creditors of the issuer.
Details of the Groups subordinated liabilities are set out in PPP Public Private Partnership note 44.
PRA Prudential Regulation Authority Sub-Prime Sub-prime is defined as loans to borrowers typically having weakened credit histories that include PVNBP Present Value of new Business Premiums payment delinquencies and potentially more severe problems such as court judgements and RDR Retail Distribution Review bankruptcies.
They may also display reduced repayment capacity as measured by credit scores, high debt-to-income ratios, or other criteria indicating heightened risk of default.
SAYE Save-As-You-earn Tier 1 capital A measure of a banks financial strength defined by the PRA.
It captures core tier 1 capital plus other tier SEC Securities and exchange Commission 1 securities in issue, but is subject to a deduction in respect of material holdings in financial companies.
SMEs Small and Medium-sized enterprises Further details are given in the Capital Risk section on page 178.
SWIP Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Tier 1 capital ratio Tier 1 capital as a percentage of risk-weighted assets.
TSR Total Shareholder Return Tier 2 capital A component of regulatory capital defined by the PRA, mainly comprising qualifying subordinated loan UK united Kingdom of Great Britain and capital, certain non-controlling interests and eligible collective impairment allowances.
Further details are northern Ireland given in the Capital Risk section on page 178.
UKFI uK Financial Investments limited Trading book Positions in financial instruments and commodities held for trading purposes or to hedge other elements US united States of America of the trading book.
VaR Value-at-Risk Uncovered ABS ABS held without the benefit of separately purchased matching credit default swaps to protect against the risk of default of the security.
Details of the Groups uncovered ABS are given in note 54.
Value-at-Risk Value-at-Risk is an estimate of the potential loss in earnings which might arise from market movements under normal market conditions, if the current positions were to be held unchanged for one business day.
It is measured to specified level of confidence, often 95 per cent or 99 per cent.
Write Downs The depreciation or lowering of the value of an asset in the books to reflect a decline in their value, or expected cash flows.
Shareholder information 378 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Forward looking statements 380 386 387 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Glossary 381 Abbreviations 387 Index to annual report 388 1 44 69 123 197 ABBReVIATIOnS ABS Asset-Backed Securities KPIs Key Performance Indicators ADRs American Depositary Receipts LCR liquidity Coverage Ratio BoE Bank of england LDC lloyds Development Capital BSU Business Support unit LIBOR london Inter-Bank Offered Rate CDO Collateralised Debt Obligation LMI line Manager Index CDS Credit Default Swap LP&I life, Pensions and Investments CET1 Common equity Tier 1 LTIP long-Term Incentive Plan CLO Collateralised loan Obligation LTV loan-to-value CMIG Clerical Medical Investment Group limited MIF Multilateral Interchange Fee CRA Credit Reference Agency NPS net Promoter Score CRD IV Capital Requirements Directive IV NSFR net Stable Funding Ratio CVA Credit Valuation Adjustment OEICs Open ended Investment Companies DVA Debit Valuation Adjustment OFT Office of Fair Trading EC european Commission PEI Performance excellence Index ECNs enhanced Capital notes PFI Private Finance Initiative EEI employee engagement Index PPI Payment Protection Insurance EEV european embedded Value PPP Public Private Partnership EFG enterprise Finance Guarantee Scheme PRA Prudential Regulation Authority EP economic Profit PVNBP Present Value of new Business Premiums EPS earnings Per Share RDR Retail Distribution Review ERM enterprise Risk Management SAYE Save-As-You-earn EU european union SEC Securities and exchange Commission FCA Financial Conduct Authority SMEs Small and Medium-sized enterprises FLS Funding for lending Scheme SWIP Scottish Widows Investment Partnership FRC Financial Reporting Council TSR Total Shareholder Return FSA Financial Services Authority UK united Kingdom of Great Britain and northern Ireland FSCS Financial Services Compensation Scheme UKFI uK Financial Investments limited HMRC Her Majestys Revenue & Customs US united States of America IAS International Accounting Standard VaR Value-at-Risk IASB International Accounting Standards Board ICG Individual Capital Guidance IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards IPO Initial Public Offering ISA Individual Savings Account Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 388 389 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 InDeX TO AnnuAl RePORT Accounting Derivative financial instruments Accounting policies 213 Accounting policy 216 Critical accounting estimates and judgements 224 notes to the consolidated financial statements 246 Future accounting developments 365Valuation 317 Approval of financial statements Directors Consolidated 365 Attendance at board and committee meetings 85 Parent company 376Biographies 70 Directors report 74 Auditors emoluments 113, 117 Report on the consolidated financial statements 198 Interests 122 Fees 239 Remuneration policy 102 Available-for-sale financial assets Service agreements 106 Accounting policies 215, 219 Statement of directors responsibilities 77 notes to the consolidated financial statements 255 Dividends 9, 15, 293 Valuation 317 Divisional results Balance sheet Commercial Banking 25, 58 Consolidated 206, 207 Insurance 27, 62 Parent company 366 Retail 24, 56 Business Model and Strategy 180 Wealth, Asset Finance and International 26, 60 Capital adequacy Earnings per share 244 Capital ratios 180 Employees Cash flow statement Diversity and inclusion 35 Consolidated 211 Colleagues 34 notes to the consolidated financial statements 350 Enhanced Disclosure Task Force Parent company 368 Disclosures arising from recommendations 391 Chairmans statement 8 Financial instruments Contingent liabilities and commitments 307 Fair values of financial assets and liabilities 313, 375 Debt securities in issue Measurement basis of financial assets and liabilities 310, 374 Consolidated 262 Reclassification of financial assets 312 Parent company 372 Financial risk management Valuation 321 Capital risk 42, 178, 349 Delivering our Action Plan 20 Credit risk 42, 133, 329, 375 Deposits Currency risk 328, 374 Customer deposits 261 Insurance risk 193, 349 Deposits from banks 261 Interest rate risk 327, 374 Valuation 321 liquidity risk 171, 347, 375 Market risk 42, 164, 327 Five year financial summary 68 Forward looking statements 380 Glossary 381 Shareholder information 378 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Forward looking statements 380 388 389 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Glossary 381 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Abbreviations 387 Index to annual report 388 1 44 69 123 197 Going concern Insurance claims 237 Basis of preparation 212 Insurance premium income 235 Directors report 74 Intangible assets Goodwill Accounting policy 214 Accounting policy 214 notes to the consolidated financial statements 259 notes to the consolidated financial statements 256 Investment property Governance Accounting policy 219 Compliance with the uK Corporate Governance Code 79 notes to the consolidated financial statements 256 Risk management 123 Key performance indicators Board Committees 80 Divisional overview and KPIs 24 Group key performance indicators 6 Group chief executives review 12 Group Executive Committee 72 Loans and advances loans and advances to banks 249 Held at fair value through profit orloss loans and advances to customers 250 Accounting policy 215 Valuation 321 notes to the consolidated financial statements 245, 262 Valuation 317 Marketplace trends Regulation 17 Impairment The economy 16 Accounting policy 217 Impact on our markets 16 Critical accounting estimates and judgements 224 notes to the consolidated financial statements 240 Net fee and commission income 234 Income statement Net interest income 233 Consolidated 204 Net trading income 234 Information for shareholders Operating expenses 238 Analysis of shareholders 379 Other operating income 236 Shareholder enquiries 378 Other financial information Insurance businesses Banking net interest margin 66 Accounting policy 221 Core and non-core business 53 Basis of determining regulatory capital 187 Volatility arising in insurance businesses 66 Capital sensitivities 191 Pensions Capital statement 188 Accounting policy 220 Critical accounting estimates and judgements 226 Critical accounting estimates and judgements 225 Financial information calculated on a realistic basis 187 Directors pensions 102, 111, 113 liabilities arising from insurance contracts and notes to the consolidated financial statements 271 participating investment contracts 262 liabilities arising from non-participating investment contracts 270 Principal subsidiaries 372 life insurance sensitivity analysis 269 Presentation of information 52 Options and guarantees 191 Provisions unallocated surplus within insurance businesses 270 Accounting policy 224 Value of in-force business 257 notes to the consolidated financial statements 281 Volatility arising in insurance businesses 66 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 390 391 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 InDeX TO AnnuAl RePORT Statement of changes in equity Related party transactions 303, 372 Consolidated 208 Relationships and responsibilities 28 Parent company 367 environment 39 Colleagues 34 Subordinated liabilities Communities 36Consolidated 284 Customers 30 Parent company 371 Other stakeholders 38Valuation 321 Risk management framework Summary of Group results 45 Capital risk 178 Tangible fixed assets Conduct risk 163 Accounting policy 219 Credit risk 133 notes to the consolidated financial statements 260 exposures to eurozone countries 160 Taxation Financial reporting risk 195 Accounting policy 221 Funding and liquidity risk 17 Critical accounting estimates and judgements 225 Governance risk 196 notes to the consolidated financial statements 242, 279 Insurance risk 193 Value at Risk VaR 166 Market risk 164 Value of in-force business Operational risk 169 Accounting policy 222 People risk 194 notes to the consolidated financial statements 257 Principal risks and uncertainties 42 Regulatory risk 192 Volatility Risk governance 129 Insurance 66 Risk management 123 Policyholder interests 67 Risk overview 40 Risk-weighted assets 182 Securitisations and covered bonds 251 Segmental reporting Central items 65 Commercial Banking 58 Group Operations 64 Insurance 62 notes to the consolidated financial statements 227 Retail 56 underlying basis segmental analysis 52 Wealth, Asset Finance and International 60 Share-based payments Accounting policy 221 notes to the consolidated financial statements 293 Share capital and premium accounts 289, 291 Shareholder information 378 Shareholder information 378 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Forward looking statements 380 390 391 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Glossary 381 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Abbreviations 387 Index to annual report 388 1 44 69 123 197 Disclosures arising from Enhanced Disclosure Task Force EDTF recommendations The 32 recommendations listed below are made in the report enhancing the Risk Disclosures of Banks issued by the enhanced Disclosure Task Force of the Financial Stability Board on 29 October 2012.
The Groups Pillar 3 disclosures can be found at www.
com EDTF Recommendations summarised Page General Commentary 1 Present all related risk information together or provide an index or an aid to navigation.
123 2 Define the banks risk terminology and risk measures and present key parameter values used.
124-196 3 Describe and discuss top and emerging risks.
42-43, 126 4 Outline plans to meet each new key regulatory ratio.
172, 179, 185-186 Risk Governance and risk management strategies business model 5 Summarise prominently the banks risk management organisation, processes and key functions.
129-132 6 Describe risk culture and how procedures and strategies are applied to support the culture.
124 7 Describe the key risks that arise from the banks business models and activities, the banks risk appetite in the context 125, 133-196 of its business models and how the bank manages such risks.
8 Describe the use of stress testing within the banks risk governance and capital frameworks.
127-128 Capital adequacy and risk-weighted assets 9 Pillar 1 capital requirements and the application of counter-cyclical and capital conservation buffers or the minimum 178-179 internal ratio established by management.
10 Main components of capital and a reconciliation of the accounting balance sheet to the regulatory balance sheet.
180, Pillar 3 11 Flow statement of movements since the prior reporting date in regulatory capital, including changes in common 181 equity tier 1, tier 1 and tier 2 capital.
12 Discuss capital planning, including a description of managements view of the required or targeted level of capital and 178-179 how this will be established.
13 explain how risk-weighted assets RWAs relate to business activities and related risks.
125, 182-183, Pillar 3 14 Present a table showing the capital requirements for each method used for calculating RWAs for each Basel asset class.
Pillar 3 15 Tabulate credit risk for Basel asset classes.
Pillar 3 16 Present a flow statement that reconciles movements in RWAs for the period for each RWA risk type.
182 17 Provide narrative putting Basel Pillar 3 back-testing requirements into context.
Pillar 3 Liquidity 18 Describe how the bank manages its potential liquidity needs.
176 20 Tabulate consolidated total assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments by remaining contractual maturity at 175, 347-349 the balance sheet date.
21 Discuss the banks funding strategy, including key sources and any funding concentrations.
173-176 Market risk 22 Describe linkages between line items in the balance sheet with positions included in the traded and non-traded 164 market risk disclosures.
23 Provide breakdowns of significant trading and non trading market risk factors.
164-165 24 Describe significant market risk measurement model limitations, assumptions and validation procedures.
165-167, Pillar 3 25 Describe the primary risk management techniques employed to measure and assess the risk of loss beyond reported 165-167, Pillar 3 risk measures and parameters, such as VaR, earnings or economic value scenario results.
Credit risk 26 Describe the banks credit risk profile, including any significant credit risk concentrations.
Detailing aggregate credit 133-161, Pillar 3 risk exposures that reconciles to the balance sheet, including detailed tables for both retail and corporate portfolios.
27 Describe the policies for identifying impaired or non-performing loans, defining impaired or non-performing, 137-138, 217-219, restructured and  cured loans as well as explanations of loan forbearance policies.
340-346 28 A reconciliation of the opening and closing balances of non-performing or impaired loans in the period and the 140 allowance for loan losses.
29 Provide analysis of the banks counterparty credit risk that arises from its derivatives transactions.
143, 336 30 Discuss credit risk mitigation, including collateral held for all sources of credit risk.
134-136, 336-339 Other 31 Describe other risk types and discuss how each one is identified, governed, measured and managed.
163, 169-170, 192-196 32 Discuss publicly known risk events related to other risks.
163, 169-170, 192-196 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com Photography by Marcus Ginns, George Brooks, Richard Moran Photography, Getty Images and Shutterstock.
com Printed in the uK by CPI Colour, a certified Carbonneutral printing company, using vegetable based inks and water based sealants: the printer and paper manufacturing mill are both certified with ISO 140001 environmental Management systems standards and both are Forest Stewardship Council certified.
When you have finished with this report, please dispose of it in your recycled waste stream.
Head office 25 Gresham Street london eC2V 7Hn Telephone 44 0 20 7626 1500 Registered office The Mound edinburgh eH1 1YZ Registered in Scotland no SC95000 Internet www.
