Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 378 379 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 SHAReHOlDeR InFORMATIOn Annual general meeting The annual general meeting will be held at the edinburgh International Conference Centre, The exchange, edinburgh eH3 8ee on Thursday 15 May 2014 at 11.00 am.
Further details about the meeting, including the proposed resolutions, can be found in our notice of annual general meeting which will be available shortly on our website www.
com Shareholder enquiries including the Lloyds Banking Group Shareholder Account For queries about your shareholding or to tell us about changes to your circumstances, please contact equiniti limited using the details shown below.
equiniti limited maintain shareholder records on our behalf and deal with shareholder enquiries either in writing or by telephone: equiniti limited Aspect House Spencer Road Telephone 0871 384 2990 lancing Textphone 0871 384 2255 West Sussex Bn99 6DA Overseas 44 0 121 415 7066 Telephone lines are open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday.
Calls to 0871 numbers are charged at 8p per minute plus network extras.
Calls from outside the united Kingdom are charged at applicable international rates.
The call prices quoted were correct at February 2014.
Reports and communications The Group issues regulatory announcements through the Regulatory news Service RnS : shareholders can subscribe for free via the Investors & Performance section of our website www.
com where you can also find our statutory reports and shareholder communications.
A summary of these are listed below: Available format Report Communication Month Online RNS Paper Email Preliminary results Feb Annual report and accounts, annual review or performance summary Mar Pillar 3 Disclosures Mar notice of annual general meeting and voting materials Apr 1 Country-by-country reporting Jun Jul Q1 interim management statement May Interim results Jul Group Chief executive letter to shareholders Mar Aug Q3 interim management statement Oct 1 To be published on the Groups website by 1 July 2014 in accordance with the Capital Requirements country-by-country Regulations 2013.
Digital communications Shareview by Equiniti Limited Shareview, the website provided by equiniti, allows shareholders to sign up to receive email communications and also provides the opportunity to self-manage your shareholding online.
Shareholders can also access frequently asked questions, useful fact sheets, guidance notes, downloadable forms and a secure messaging system.
co. uk for further details.
Share dealing facilities We offer a choice of three share dealing services for our uK shareholders and customers.
To see the full range of services available for each, please use the contact details below: Service Provider Telephone Dealing Internet Dealing Bank of Scotland Share Dealing 0845 606 1188 www.
co. uk Halifax Share Dealing 08457 22 55 25 www.
co. uk lloyds Bank Direct Investments 0845 60 60 560 www.
com shares note: All internet services are available 24 7.
Telephone dealing services are available between 8.00 am and 9.15 pm, Monday to Friday and 9.00 am to 1.00 pm on Saturday.
To open a share dealing account with any of these services, you must be 18 years of age or over and be resident in the uK, Jersey, Guernsey or the Isle of Man.
Shareholder information 378 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Forward looking statements 380 378 379 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Glossary 381 Abbreviations 387 Index to annual report 388 1 44 69 123 197 Annual general meeting Share price information The annual general meeting will be held at the edinburgh International Conference Centre, The exchange, edinburgh eH3 8ee on Thursday Shareholders can access both the latest and historical share prices via our website www.
com as well as listings in most 15 May 2014 at 11.00 am.
Further details about the meeting, including the proposed resolutions, can be found in our notice of annual general national newspapers.
For a real time buying or selling price, you will need to contact a stockbroker, or you can contact the share dealing meeting which will be available shortly on our website www.
com providers detailed on the previous page.
Shareholder enquiries including the Lloyds Banking Group Shareholder Account Individual Savings Accounts ISAs For queries about your shareholding or to tell us about changes to your circumstances, please contact equiniti limited using the details shown There are a number of options for investing in lloyds Banking Group shares through an ISA.
For details of services and products provided below.
equiniti limited maintain shareholder records on our behalf and deal with shareholder enquiries either in writing or by telephone: by the Group please contact: Bank of Scotland Share Dealing, Halifax Share Dealing or lloyds Bank Direct Investments using the contact details overleaf.
equiniti limited Aspect House Spencer Road Telephone 0871 384 2990 American Depositary Receipts ADRs lancing Textphone 0871 384 2255 Our shares are traded in the uSA through a new York Stock exchange-listed sponsored ADR facility with The Bank of new York Mellon as the West Sussex Bn99 6DA Overseas 44 0 121 415 7066 depositary.
The ADRs are traded on the new York Stock exchange under the symbol lYG.
The CuSIP number is 539439109 and the ratio of Telephone lines are open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday.
Calls ADRs to ordinary shares is 1:4. from outside the united Kingdom are charged at applicable international rates.
For details contact: BnY Mellon Depositary Receipts, PO Box 30170, College Station, TX 77842-3170.
com Reports and communications The Group issues regulatory announcements through the Regulatory news Service RnS : shareholders can subscribe for free via the Analysis of shareholders Investors & Performance section of our website www.
Digital communications Shareview by Equiniti Limited Share sale fraud and scams Shareview, the website provided by equiniti, allows shareholders to sign up to receive email communications and also provides the Shareholders should exercise caution when unsolicited callers offer the chance to buy or sell shares with promises of huge returns.
If it sounds opportunity to self-manage your shareholding online.
Shareholders can also access frequently asked questions, useful fact sheets, guidance too good to be true, it usually is.
Please take steps to protect yourself.
We strongly recommend that you seek advice from an independent notes, downloadable forms and a secure messaging system.
financial adviser authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
If you are uncertain you can check if they are authorised via the Financial See www.
Services Register which is available at www.
If you are concerned that you may have been targeted by such a scheme, please contact the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 or Share dealing facilities use the online Share Fraud Reporting Form available from their website see above.
We would also recommend that you contact the Police We offer a choice of three share dealing services for our uK shareholders and customers.
To see the full range of services available for each, through Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040 or see www.
please use the contact details below: Service Provider Telephone Dealing Internet Dealing Bank of Scotland Share Dealing 0845 606 1188 www.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group L Llo loy yd ds s B Ba an nk ki in ng g G Grou roup p 380 3 381 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 A Annu nnua al l R Re ep por ort t a and nd A Ac cc co oun unfit ts s 2 20 01 13 3 FORWARD lOOKInG STATeMenTS This annual report contains certain forward looking statements with respect to the business, strategy and plans of the lloyds Banking Group and its current goals and expectations relating to its future financial condition and performance.
Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about the lloyds Banking Group or its directors and or managements beliefs and expectations, are forward looking statements.
Words such as believes, anticipates, estimates, expects, intends, aims, potential, will, would, could, considered, likely, estimate and variations of these words and similar future or conditional expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements.
By their nature, forward looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend upon circumstances that will or may occur in the future.
examples of such forward looking statements include, but are not limited to: projections or expectations of the Groups future financial position including profit attributable to shareholders, provisions, economic profit, dividends, capital structure, expenditures or any other financial items or ratios: statements of plans, objectives or goals of the Group or its management including in respect of certain synergy targets: statements about the future business and economic environments in the united Kingdom uK and elsewhere including, but not limited to, future trends in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit and equity market levels and demographic developments: statements about competition, regulation, disposals and consolidation or technological developments in the financial services industry: and statements of assumptions underlying such statements.
Factors that could cause actual business, strategy, plans and or results to differ materially from the plans, objectives, expectations, estimates and intentions expressed in such forward looking statements made by the Group or on its behalf include, but are not limited to: general economic and business conditions in the uK and internationally: inflation, deflation, interest rates and policies of the Bank of england, the european Central Bank and other G8 central banks: fluctuations in exchange rates, stock markets and currencies: the ability to access sufficient funding to meet the Groups liquidity needs: changes to the Groups credit ratings: the ability to derive cost savings and other benefits including, without limitation, as a result of the Groups Simplification Programme: changing demographic developments including mortality and changing customer behaviour including consumer spending, saving and borrowing habits: changes in customer preferences: changes to borrower or counterparty credit quality: instability in the global financial markets, including eurozone instability and the impact of any sovereign credit rating downgrade or other sovereign financial issues: technological changes: natural and other disasters, adverse weather and similar contingencies outside the Groups control: inadequate or failed internal or external processes, people and systems: terrorist acts and other acts of war or hostility and responses to those acts, geopolitical, pandemic or other such events: changes in laws, regulations, taxation, accounting standards or practices: regulatory capital or liquidity requirements and similar contingencies outside the Groups control: the policies and actions of governmental or regulatory authorities in the uK, the european union eu, the uS or elsewhere: the implementation of the draft eu crisis management framework directive and banking reform, following the recommendations made by the Independent Commission on Banking: the ability to attract and retain senior management and other employees: requirements or limitations imposed on the Group as a result of HM Treasurys investment in the Group: the ability to complete satisfactorily the disposal of certain assets as part of the Groups eu State Aid obligations: the extent of any future impairment charges or write-downs caused by depressed asset valuations, market disruptions and illiquid markets: market related trends and developments: exposure to regulatory scrutiny, legal proceedings, regulatory investigations or complaints: changes in competition and pricing environments: the inability to hedge certain risks economically: the adequacy of loss reserves: the actions of competitors, including non-bank financial services and lending companies: and the success of the Group in managing the risks of the foregoing.
Please refer to the latest Annual Report on Form 20-F filed with the uS Securities and exchange Commission for a discussion of certain factors, together with examples of forward looking statements.
lloyds Banking Group may also make or disclose written and or oral forward looking statements in reports filed with or furnished to the uS Securities and exchange Commission, lloyds Banking Group annual reviews, half-year announcements, proxy statements, offering circulars, prospectuses, press releases and other written materials and in oral statements made by the directors, officers or employees of lloyds Banking Group to third parties, including financial analysts.
except as required by any applicable law or regulation, the forward looking statements contained in this annual report are made as of the date hereof, and lloyds Banking Group expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward looking statements contained in this annual report to reflect any change in lloyds Banking Groups expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
