OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements 81 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Basis of preparation and accounting policies Recent accounting developments The Companys and Groups consolidated financial statements are prepared The following standards and interpretations have been issued by the in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS International Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRIC and have and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations endorsed been adopted in these financial statements: by the European Union, and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 Amendments to IFRS 1, First time adoption exemption for severe applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
hyperination and removal of xed dates: Amendment to IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures disclosures The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention on transfers of financial assets: and IFRS various Annual improvements 2012. as modied by the revaluation of assets and liabilities held at fair value, including those of the central counterparty CCP clearing business of the The adoption of these standards did not have a material impact on Groups subsidiary Cassa di Compensazione e Garanzia S. p. A. CC&G, and these consolidated financial statements.
on the basis of the Groups accounting policies.
The following standards and interpretations were issued by the IASB and The Group uses a columnar format for the presentation of its consolidated IFRIC since the last Annual Report, but have not been adopted either because income statement.
This enables the Group to aid the readers understanding they were not endorsed by the European Union EU at 31 March 2013 or of its results by presenting profit for the year before amortisation of they are not yet mandatory and the Group has not chosen to early adopt.
purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items.
This is the profit The impact on the Groups financial statements of the future standards, measure used to calculate adjusted earnings per share and is considered to amendments and interpretations is still under review, but the Group does be the most appropriate as it best reects the Groups underlying, recurring not expect any of these changes to have a material impact on the results cash earnings and is the primary measure of performance monitored by or the net assets of the Group: the Groups Executive Committee.
profit before acquisition amortisation, and non-recurring items is reconciled to profit before taxation on the International accounting standards and interpretations Effective date face of the income statement.
Amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements presentation of items of other comprehensive income 1 July 2012 Consolidation Amendment to IAS 12, Income taxes deferred to tax accounting for investment properties 1 January 2013 The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements IAS 19 revised Employee benets 1 January 2013 of the Company and its subsidiaries with all inter-company balances and Amendment to IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2013 transactions eliminated, together with the Groups attributable share of the results of associates.
The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired are IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements 1 January 2013 included in the income statement up to, or from, the date that control IFRS 11, Joint arrangements 1 January 2013 passes.
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the IFRS 12, Disclosure of interests in other entities 1 January 2013 Companys income statement has not been included in these financial IFRS 13, Fair value measurement 1 January 2013 statements.
The Companys income for the year is disclosed within the IAS 32, Financial instruments: Presentation 1 January 2014 statement of changes in equity.
Accounting policies Investments in associates are accounted for under the equity method.
Income Statement The Groups investments in associates are initially recognised at cost, Revenue and its share of profits or losses after tax from associates is included in the Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or consolidated income statement.
Cumulative post-acquisition movements receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment in the Groups provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and balance sheet.
The financial statements of associates are used by the Group other sales related taxes.
to apply the equity method, under which the Groups income statement reects the Groups share of the results of operations of the associates.
Revenue is recognised in the period when the service or supply is provided.
A company is considered an associate where the Group has a The sources of revenue are: significant inuence.
a Maintenance contracts, membership and other fees revenue is The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
recognised on a straight-line basis over the period to which the fee relates The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, b Admission fees revenue is recognised at the time of admission at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, to trading and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Adjustments to fair values include those made to bring accounting c Royalties revenue is recognised at the earlier of cash receipt or the policies into line with those of the Group.
date at which they are earned or measurable with certainty d IT products where there is no significant service obligation the revenue The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with non-controlling is recognised upon delivery and acceptance of the software or hardware interests through the economic entity model.
Transactions with nonby the customer controlling interests are recognised in equity.
e IT solutions where software is sold requiring significant modication, Investments in subsidiaries are reviewed for impairment when events indicate integration or customisation, the consideration is allocated between the the carrying amount may not be recoverable and are accounted for in the different elements on a fair value basis.
Revenue is recognised using a Companys financial statements at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
The stage of completion is determined by reference to the costs incurred to date as a proportion of the total estimated costs or the services performed to date as a percentage of total services to be performed.
Provision is made for all foreseeable future losses in the period in which they are identied 82 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS f Software and Licence fees revenue is recognised when the performance On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the under the contract has occurred and the revenue has been earned: and net investment in foreign operations, and of borrowing and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to g Other all other revenue is recognised in the month in which the service shareholders equity.
When a foreign operation is partially disposed of is provided.
In interim reports, Borsa Italiana group defers some of the or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity are recognised income received from cash trading and FTSE MIB futures trading and in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
This deferral results in revenues being recognised at the average price of transactions forecast for the full year, as pricing levels reduce Finance income and expense during the year when incremental volume targets are achieved.
Finance income and expense comprises interest earned on cash deposited with financial counterparties and interest paid on borrowings which reect Non-recurring items the agreed market-based or contractual rate for each transaction undertaken Items of income and expense that are material by size and or nature and are during the financial year.
non-recurring are classied as non-recurring items on the face of the income statement within their relevant category.
The separate reporting of these Recurring fees and charges levied on committed bank facilities and the items together with amortisation of purchased intangible assets helps payments and cash management transactions and services provided by the give an indication of the Groups underlying performance.
Groups banks are charged to the income statement as accrued.
Credit facility arrangement fees are capitalised and then amortised back to the income Pension costs statement over the term of the facility subject to protected utilisation.
If a The Group operates dened benefit and dened contribution pension facility is deemed unlikely to be drawn over its life, the arrangement fees schemes.
For the dened benefit schemes the service cost, representing will be charged immediately to the income statement.
Fees and charges benets accruing to employees, is included as an operating expense and the are included within other finance costs.
expected return on scheme assets and interest cost from unwinding of the discount on scheme obligations are included as finance income and finance Fair value gains and losses on financial instruments includes the movement expense respectively.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience in the market valuations of derivative instruments held as fair value hedges.
adjustments, changes in actuarial assumptions or differences between actual and expected returns on assets are recognised at each period end net of Balance Sheet tax in the statement of comprehensive income.
The net asset or liability Property, plant and equipment recognised on the balance sheet comprises the difference between the Property, plant and equipment are included in the financial statements present value of pension obligations and the fair value of scheme assets.
at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
For dened contribution schemes, the expense is charged to the income statement as incurred.
Freehold buildings, xed plant and plant and equipment are stated at cost and are depreciated to residual value on a straight line basis over Share based compensation the estimated useful economic lives of the assets which are as follows: The Group operates a number of equity settled share based compensation plans for employees.
The charge to the income statement is determined by a Freehold buildings 33 to 50 years the fair value of the options granted or shares awarded at the date of grant b Fixed plant five to 20 years: and and recognised over the relevant vesting period.
c Plant and equipment three to 15 years.
Foreign currencies The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which Leasehold properties and improvements are included at cost and depreciated is the Companys presentation and functional currency.
Foreign currency to residual value over the shorter of the period of the lease or the useful transactions are converted into the functional currency using the rate ruling economic life of the asset.
at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains or losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at Leases year-end rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership currencies are recognised in the income statement.
Translation differences are retained by the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Payments made on non-monetary items, such as equities held at fair value through profit or under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straightloss, are reported as part of their fair value gain or loss.
Exceptions to this are line basis.
Lease incentives are spread over the term of the lease.
where the non-monetary items form part of the net investment in a foreign operation or are designated as hedges of a net investment, or as cash ow The Group leases certain plant and equipment where the Group has hedges.
Such exchange differences are initially recognised in equity.
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
These are classied as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases commencement The results and financial position of all Group entities that have a functional at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value currency different from the presentation currency are converted into the of the minimum lease payments.
presentation currency as follows: Each lease payment is apportioned between the finance charge and the a assets and liabilities including goodwill, purchased intangible assets and liability so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
fair value adjustments are converted at the closing balance sheet rate The plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated b income and expenses are translated and recorded in the income over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
statement at the average monthly rates prevailing: and Due to the immaterial value of finance leases within the Group, they are c all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate not disclosed separately within the accounts.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements 83 Intangible assets c Loans and receivables Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries represents the excess of Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets liabilities with xed consideration paid over the fair value of the Groups share of net identiable or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
It is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be 12 months after the balance sheet date which are classied as non-current recoverable, and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the assets and liabilities acquired.
These may include brand names, customer relationships, Financial assets and liabilities of the central counterparty licences and software intellectual property, all of which are recorded as CCP business intangible assets and held at cost less accumulated amortisation.
These Assets and liabilities of the CCP clearing service relate to CC&G, the subsidiary assets are amortised on a straight line basis over their useful economic that performs the CCP clearing business.
CC&G clears financial derivatives, lives, which do not normally exceed 25 years or the term of the licence.
equities and bond transactions on Italian regulated markets, guaranteeing The amortisation period and method are reviewed and adjusted, as the successful receipt or delivery of securities for the transactions to be appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
settled on both the sale and purchase side of transactions with the respective counterparties.
It enters into a contractual arrangement in respect of each Third party software costs for the development and implementation of side of the transaction, bears the risk associated with counterparties failing systems which enhance the services provided by the Group are capitalised to honour their obligations and, in the event of a failure to deliver by any and amortised over their estimated useful economic lives of three years.
counterparty, is required itself to complete delivery of the appropriate securities.
Accordingly, CC&G must record an asset and a liability on its Internal product development expenditure is capitalised if the costs can be balance sheet in respect of each of the sale and purchase sides of each reliably measured, the product or process is technically and commercially transaction.
However, except in respect of failed transactions CC&G as feasible, future economic benets are probable and the Group has sufficient a CCP clearer does not bear any price risk and the value of the sale and resources to complete the development and to use or sell the asset.
The assets purchase side of each transaction are the same: consequently, the are recorded at cost including labour, directly attributable costs and any third principal CCP asset and liability amounts largely match each other.
party expenses, and amortised over useful economic lives of three years.
Income recognised through the CCP clearing business includes net treasury Current and deferred taxation income earned on margin and default funds, held as part of our risk The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax management process, and is shown separately from the Group revenues.
laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the This amount has been shown separately on the face of the income statement countries where the Company and its subsidiaries operate and generate to distinguish this income stream from revenues arising from the Groups taxable income.
other activities and provides the reader with a greater understanding of the operating activities of the Group.
Full provision is made, using the liability method, for temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying Accounting treatments of CCP financial assets and liabilities include amounts in the financial statements.
Deferred taxation is determined using the following: tax rates that are substantially enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the asset is realised or liability settled.
Deferred tax a Derivatives, trading assets and liabilities assets are recognised to the extent it is probable that they will be recoverable These transactions are initially recorded at fair value, which coincides with the against future taxable profits.
market value of the open positions on the IDEM and IDEX derivatives markets in which CC&G operates as CCP, and are subsequently re-measured on the Classification of financial assets basis of the market price of each derivative instrument at the period end.
Financial assets excluding clearing business Since the asset and liability positions of the CCP clearer are matched, the The Group classies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair same amount is recorded for both the assets and liabilities and no net fair value through profit or loss, available-for-sale and loans and receivables.
value gains or losses are recognised in the income statement.
The classication depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classication of its financial b Receivables for and liabilities under repurchase transactions assets at initial recognition.
These represent repurchase transactions repos by clearing members in the a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss bond market using CC&Gs clearing and guarantee service.
They represent the value of transactions already settled spot and not yet settled at term.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial assets These transactions are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently held for liquidity purposes and are initially recognised at fair value and any measured at amortised cost, by allocating the yield on the repo pro-rated subsequent changes in fair value are recognised directly in the income over the duration of the contract the coupon accrued in the period and the statement.
These assets are financial instruments not designated as hedges.
difference between the spot and forward prices.
Since the asset and liability positions for repos are matched, the same amount is recorded for both assets b Available-for-sale financial assets and liabilities and no gain or loss is recorded in the income statement.
Investments other than term deposits and interests in joint ventures, associates and subsidiaries are designated as available for sale and are c Other receivables from and payables to clearing members recorded on trade date at fair value plus transaction costs with changes in These comprise accounts receivable and payable deriving from the activities fair value recognised in equity.
Where the fair value is not reliably measurable, of clearing members in derivatives, equities and bond transactions.
They the investment is held at cost less any provision for impairment.
Assets such mainly represent amounts to be received or paid in relation to initial and as shares in clearing and payment transmission operations and long term variation margins, option premiums, securities as collateral and default fund equity investments that do not qualify as associates or joint ventures are contributions and are initially recorded at fair value.
They are generally settled usually classied as available for sale.
on the next day and, accordingly, are not discounted back to current value.
84 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS d Financial assets and liabilities at fair value Trade receivables Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are stated at their fair value, These represent quoted equity and bond securities which CC&G has already which is usually the original invoiced amount less provision for impairment.
withdrawn from the settlement system but has not yet delivered to the A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is intermediaries who have bought them and securities traded but not yet objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts settled as part of the CCP function.
These are initially recognised at fair value due according to the original terms of the receivables.
significant financial and subsequently re-measured at fair value, based on the market price of difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy each security.
The difference between the settlement price of each security or will be subject to a financial re-organisation and or default on or be at trade date and the market price of that security at the period end is delinquent on its payment obligations are considered indicators that the recognised as a fair value gain or loss in the income statement.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of the portion e Cash and cash equivalents restricted deemed recoverable.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through These include amounts received from clearing members to cover initial and the use of an allowance account and the amount of the loss is recognised variation margins and default fund contributions as collateral against default in the income statement.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously or insolvency and are deposited with banks.
Such amounts are initially written off are credited in the income statement.
recognised at fair value and are subsequently recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest method, if the time value of money is significant.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, term deposits and Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities investments in money market funds that are readily convertible to known Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative amounts of cash and are subject to insignicant risk of changes in value.
contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or Assets held for sale loss depends on whether or not the derivative is designated as a hedging Assets are classied as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to instrument, and if so the nature of the item being hedged.
be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair The Group applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging interest risk on value less costs to sell.
Any gain or loss is recognised in the income statement within finance expenses.
Borrowings Bank borrowings are initially recorded at the fair value of amounts received, The Group designates as cash ow hedges both foreign currency derivatives net of direct issue costs and transaction costs including upfront facility fees.
and hedges of interest rate movements associated with highly probable Subsequently, these liabilities are carried at amortised cost, and interest is forecast transactions.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating charged to the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity.
Similarly direct issue costs and transaction costs including upfront facility fees are charged to the income statement over The Group hedges a proportion of its net investment in its Italian Companies the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
by designating euro borrowings as a net investment hedge.
Share capital In order to qualify for hedge accounting, a transaction must meet strict The Companys own shares held by the Employee benefit Trust are deducted criteria as regards documentation, effectiveness, probability of occurrence from equity until they vest unconditionally for employees and are held at and reliability of measurement.
The Group documents at the inception of cost.
Consideration paid in respect of these treasury shares is deducted from the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged equity until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
Effectiveness testing is conducted at each 2.
Financial risk management reporting date and at the commencement and conclusion of any hedge in The Group seeks to protect its financial performance from exposure to capital, order to verify that the hedge continues to satisfy all the criteria for hedge credit, liquidity and market including foreign exchange and fair value and accounting to be maintained.
The ineffective portion is recognised in the cash ow interest rate risks.
income statement within finance costs.
Financial risk management is not speculative.
It is performed at a Group level, Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement in where the treasury function identies, evaluates and hedges financial risks the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss for example, when from a Group perspective and also locally, where operating units manage the forecast transaction that is hedged takes place.
When a hedging regulatory and operational risks.
The Financial Risk Committee FRC, a instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria sub-Committee of the Executive Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that officer, meets monthly to oversee the consolidated financial risks of the time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is Group.
In addition, the Treasury Committee, a sub-Committee of the FRC ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction which is also chaired by the Chief Financial officer, meets regularly to ensure is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported that the operational management of foreign exchange, interest rates, credit in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
risks and the investment of excess liquidity are performed in accordance with Group Board approved policies and procedures.
See Principal Risk and Uncertainties, pages 42-47, for further detail on the Groups risk framework.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements 85 Capital risk Risk description Risk management approach The Group incorporates a number of regulated The Group focusses upon its overall cost of capital as it seeks to provide superior returns to its shareholders, entities within its structure.
It considers that increases full its obligations to the relevant regulatory authorities and other stakeholders and ensure that it is not in the regulatory requirements of those companies overly dependent upon short and medium term debt that might not be available at renewal.
Maintaining including any extension to the Group as a whole the exibility to invest for growth is a key capital management consideration.
and or a scarcity of debt or equity driven by its own performance or financial market conditions The Group can manage its capital structure by varying returns to shareholders, issuing new shares or are the principal risks to managing its capital.
The Board reviews dividend policy and funding capacity on a regular basis and the Group maintains comfortable levels of debt facility headroom.
The Group is profitable and its capital base comprises equity capital and debt capital.
To maintain the financial strength to access new capital at reasonable cost and meet its objective of maintaining an investment grade credit rating, the Group monitors its leverage ratio which is operating net debt ie excluding cash and cash equivalents set aside for regulatory and operational purposes to adjusted EBITDA Group consolidated earnings before net finance charges, taxation, impairment, depreciation and amortisation and non-recurring items against a target range of 1-2 times.
The Group is also mindful of potential impacts on the key metrics employed by the credit rating agencies including gross debt to EBITDA and EBITDA coverage of interest expense in considering increases to its borrowings.
At 31 March 2013 net leverage was 1.2 times 2012: 1.4 times.
Considering its recent investments, in particular the acquisition of a further 55.5 per cent of the shares of and subsequent subscription for additional capital in LCH.
Clearnet Group, and the investment in the TMX Datalink JV, the Groups net leverage on a pro forma basis would have been a little above the top end of its target range at 2.1 times.
Performance against the Groups bank facility ratio covenants net leverage and debt service ratio covenants that are unchanged during the financial year remains very comfortable and does not inhibit the Groups operations or nancing plans.
As at 31 March 2013, 200 million of cash and cash equivalents was set aside to cover regulatory and operational requirements.
This amount increased during the year primarily as a result of an agreement with the regulators of CC&G, Bank of Italy, to retain earnings and associated cash in that company to meet forthcoming regulatory requirements under EMIR.
The level of cash set aside by the Group remains subject to on-going review with regulators in the UK and Italy including the potential to vary the amounts set aside, in particular, given the implications on cash holdings of the FCAs requirement that LSE plc recognises profit in its regulatory capital calculation only upon external audit sign off.
Credit risk Risk description Risk management approach CC&G, in its role as central counterparty clearer to CC&G Italian financial market participants, guarantees To address the market participant risk, CC&G has established financial safeguards against single or multiple final settlement of transactions acting as buyer defaults.
Clearing membership selection is based upon supervisory capital, technical and organisational criteria.
towards each seller and as seller towards each buyer.
Each member must pay margins, computed at least daily, to cover the theoretical costs which CC&G would incur It manages substantial credit risks as part of its in order to close out open positions in the event of the members default.
Margins are calculated using established operations.
For more information see Principal international risk models and are debited by CC&G directly from participants accounts held with Bank of Italy.
Clearing members also contribute to default funds managed by CC&G to guarantee the integrity of the markets in the event of multiple defaults in extreme market circumstances.
Amounts are determined on the basis of the Notwithstanding revised regulations in Europe that will results of periodic stress testing examined by CC&Gs risk committee and exceed standards agreed by the European require CCPs to invest 95 per cent of their cash collateral Association of Central Counterparty Clearing Houses.
To date, no default of a direct participant has occurred.
in secured instruments or structures, to maintain liquidity and in addition to the potential to deposit cash Deposit counterparty risk for CC&G margin and default funds is managed by investing cash with counterparties securely with the central bank, CC&G will continue to that are rated investment grade or who, if not rated, are publicly quoted and have a minimum level of capital.
invest the balance of up to five per cent of its margin and CC&G liaises closely with the regulator of its counterparty banks, Bank of Italy, and to ensure liquidity, funds default fund cash unsecured, within the Italian financial are generally placed as overnight deposits and in all cases can be accessed within 2 business days if required.
market, with banks regulated by Bank of Italy.
Whilst the five per cent threshold of un-secured investment will During the year we have further extended the number of counterparties that take CC&Gs deposits to diversify considerably reduce its credit risk, it will continue to face this risk including the introduction of Italian-based branches of major international banks.
the risk of direct loss from a deterioration or failure of one or more of these unsecured deposit counterparties.
To mitigate the price risks associated with certain secured investments CC&G will, working with its regulator, consider increasing the levels of security it receives, linked to these investments.
Associated liquidity risks Furthermore, to cover the risk of trades executed by are considered in the investment mix and discussed further in the section below.
its members on international markets, CC&G has an interoperability arrangement with LCH.
Clearnet SA, based Group in Paris.
CC&G will make reciprocal deposits of collateral Credit risk is controlled through policies developed at a Group level.
to reect the traded positions of Italian participants under this arrangement and therefore will be exposed to credit Group companies make a judgement on the credit quality of their customers based upon the customers risk on LCH.
Clearnet SA as a deposit counterparty.
financial position, a low concentration of credit risk across a large number of customers, the recurring nature of the billing and collection arrangements and, historically, a low incidence of default.
More broadly, credit risk relates to the Groups customers and counterparties being unable to meet their obligations Credit risk of cash and cash equivalents is managed by limiting the exposure to up to 50 million for 12 months to the Group either in part or in full, including: with counterparties rated long term AAA or equivalent through to a maximum 10 million overnight with counterparties rated short term A-2 or equivalent.
Derivative transactions are undertaken with well-capitalised c ustomer receivables counterparties, authorised by policy, to limit the credit risk underlying these transactions.
repayment of invested cash and cash equivalents settlement of derivative financial instruments The Group maintains a heightened focus on sovereign risk in its counterparty selection.
86 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Liquidity risk Risk description Risk management approach The Groups operations are exposed to liquidity risk Group businesses are profitable, generate strong free cash ow and operations are not signicantly impacted to the extent that they are unable to meet their daily by seasonal variations.
The Group maintains sufficient liquid resources to meet its financial obligations as payment obligations.
they fall due and to invest in capital expenditure, make dividend payments, support acquisitions or repay borrowings.
Funds can generally be lent across the Group without limitation other than by regulatory In addition, CC&G and certain other subsidiary requirements in certain companies and this is encouraged through the Group Treasury cash management companies are required to maintain a level of liquidity policy and approach.
to meet the requirements of their regulators to ensure the smooth operation of their respective markets Management monitors forecasts of the Groups cash ow and overlays sensitivities to these forecasts to and to maintain operations in the event of a single reect assumptions about more difficult market conditions.
or multiple market or member stress.
Treasury policy requires that the Group maintains adequate credit facilities provided by a diversied lending group to at least cover its expected funding requirements for the next 24 months.
The financial strength of lenders to the Group is monitored regularly.
During the year, a new, nine year, 300m bond was issued to UK retail market investors to underpin liquidity resources.
The bond extended the Groups average drawn debt maturity prole to over six years and frees up its revolving credit facilities to support the proposed acquisition of LCH.
Clearnet Group and to provide comfortable facility headroom over the medium term.
At 31 March 2013, the Groups facilities were unutilised and totalled 850 million.
CC&G maintains cash and cash equivalents and has access to bespoke committed and uncommitted lines of credit with intra-day nancing from the Bank of Italy to meet the cash requirements of the clearing and settlement cycle that it manages in association with Monte Titoli.
Revised regulations will require CCPs to arrange appropriate levels of back up liquidity facilities including enhanced liquidity support facilities at the central bank that adequately support the dynamics of a largely secured cash investment requirement see Credit Risk section above.
In addition to CC&Gs requirements, certain Group companies maintain operational support facilities from banks to manage intraday and overnight liquidity.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash ows.
Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over At 31 March 2013 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years m m m m Borrowings 0.4 499.2 297.2 Trade and other payables 230.0 3.2 0.2 CCP liabilities 146,088.1 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 1.1 2.4 146,318.6 3.2 500.5 299.6 Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over At 31 March 2012 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years m m m m Borrowings 10.5 235.7 263.2 247.7 Trade and other payables 237.5 CCP liabilities 99,747.2 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 2.0 99,995.2 235.7 263.3 249.7 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements 87 Market risk Foreign Exchange Risk description Risk management approach The Group operates in the UK, Italy and Sri Lanka The Group seeks, where it can, to match the currency of its debt liabilities with its EBITDA generation in the same and, through its FTSE International Limited subsidiary, currency whilst endeavouring to balance the currency of its assets with the currency of its liabilities.
The Group has growing businesses in the USA and Asia.
With the reinforces this methodology by regularly distributing its currency cash earnings in dividends and by absorbing exception of MillenniumIT, which invoices a material currency earnings through interest payments on sterling debt, re-denominated through the use of cross-currency proportion of its revenues in US dollars, Group swaps or by drawing debt in the same currency, where this is practicable.
A proportion of the Groups debt is companies generally invoice revenues, incur expenses effectively held in euro.
At 31 March 2013, 255.5 million 2012: 250.2 million of this was designated as a hedge of and purchase assets in their respective local currencies.
the net investment in the Italian Group and a profit of 5.7 million for the financial year 2012: loss of 27.8 million As a result, foreign exchange risk arises mainly from on foreign currency borrowings was recognised in equity.
The hedge was fully effective.
the translation of the Groups foreign currency earnings, assets and liabilities into its reporting currency, sterling, Whilst transactional foreign exchange exposure is limited, the Group hedges material transactions in accordance and from occasional, large intercompany transactions.
with Group Treasury policy which requires that cash ows of more than 1 million or equivalent per annum should be hedged.
Hedge accounting is considered in each case to mitigate material levels of income statement volatility.
The Group faces less significant foreign exchange exposures from transaction risk on dividends that The Group reviews sensitivities to movements in exchange rates which are appropriate to market conditions.
As are remitted in currencies other than the currency at 31 March 2013, the Group has considered movements in the euro over the last year including recent volatility of the recipient operation.
However, the Group affecting this currency and has concluded that a 10 per cent movement in rates is a reasonable level to measure may be exposed from time to time by strategic the risk to the Group.
At 31 March 2013, if sterling had weakened strengthened by 10 per cent against the euro investments in currencies other than sterling.
with all other variables held constant, post tax profit for the year would have been 0.4 million higher 0.3 million lower 2012: 0.3 million higher 0.3 million lower : however, equity would have been 5.7 million lower 2012: 14.4 million lower 7.0 million higher 2012: 8.6 million higher.
This reects foreign exchange gains losses on translation of euro denominated trade receivables, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and of euro denominated borrowings.
If, on the other hand, the average rate for the year had moved 5c, this would have changed the Groups operating profit for the year before amortisation of purchased intangibles and non-recurring items by approximately 9.0 million.
Market risk Cash Flow and Fair Value Interest Rate Risk Risk description Risk management approach The Groups interest rate risk arises through the To provide a degree of income statement stability, the Group seeks to maintain a proportion of its net debt impact of changes in market rates on cash ows at xed rates of interest over the medium term.
The Group has issued a significant amount of its debt at xed associated with cash and cash equivalents, rates of interest with the oating rate element being repaid as the Group generates cash.
As at 31 March 2013, investments in financial assets and borrowings following the issue of the 300m xed rate retail bond in November 2012 and strong cash generation during held at oating rates.
the year, xed rate borrowings represent 227 per cent of net debt.
During the year, the Group considered swapping a portion of its xed rate debt into oating rates but did not execute any transactions due to a preference to increase oating rate borrowings naturally through imminent strategic investments for example the proposed acquisition of LCH.
This position was maintained based on a view that the risk of rates moving materially lower was limited and given the protection an over-xed rate prole gives should rates increase.
The interest rates objective will continue to be reviewed as the Group moves through its rates re-positioning following the completion of the above acquisition.
In its review of the sensitivities to potential movements in interest rates, the Group has considered interest rate volatility over the last year and prospects for rates over the next 12 months and has concluded that a 2 percentage point upward movement and no downward movement reects a reasonable level of risk to current rates.
At 31 March 2013, if interest rates on sterling-denominated and euro-denominated cash and borrowings had been 2 percentage points higher with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would actually have been 6.3 million higher 2012: 1.5 million lower mainly as a result of higher interest income on oating rate cash and cash equivalents.
Significant judgements and estimates Judgements and estimates are regularly evaluated based on historical experience, current circumstances and expectations of future events.
The significant judgements and estimates for the year ended 31 March 2013 are as follows: Goodwill tested for impairment annually.
The recoverable amounts of relevant cash generating units are based on value in use calculations using managements best estimate of future performance and estimates of the return required by shareholders to determine an appropriate discount rate.
Sensitivity analysis is provided in note 13: Purchased intangible assets valued on acquisition using appropriate methodologies and amortised over their estimated useful economic lives.
These valuations and lives are based on managements best estimates of future performance and periods over which value from the intangible assets is realised: Dened benefit pension asset or liability determined based on the present value of future pension obligations using assumptions determined by the Group with advice from an independent qualied actuary.
Sensitivity analysis is provided in note 16: Property provision determined taking into consideration future expected receipts from sub-letting and future property costs based on advice from independent property advisers: and Corporation taxes estimates are required in determining the provision for corporation taxes.
The Group recognises liabilities for the estimated tax charge at the period end and where the final tax liability is different from that estimate, such differences are reected in the period in which such determination is made.
88 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4.
Segmental Information Segmental disclosures for the year ended 31 March 2013 are as follows: Post Trade Information Technology Capital Markets Services Services Services Other Eliminations Group m m m m m m m Revenue from external customers 267.5 91.8 306.3 56.1 4.7 726.4 Inter-segmental revenue 21.3 21.3 Revenue 267.5 91.8 306.3 77.4 4.7 21.3 726.4 Net treasury income through CCP business 116.7 116.7 Other Income 9.8 9.8 Other non-recurring income 18.3 18.3 Total income 267.5 208.5 306.3 77.4 32.8 21.3 871.2 Operating profit before amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items 124.4 146.7 153.9 5.5 0.5 0.8 430.2 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 88.8 Non-recurring items 7.0 Operating profit 348.4 Net finance expense 49.5 profit before taxation 298.9 Other income statement items: Depreciation and software amortisation 27.8 5.6 14.5 4.6 0.5 12.6 40.4 Net treasury income through CCP business of 116.7m comprises gross interest income of 128.9m less gross interest expense of 12.2m.
Interest from investment in securities amount to 12.5m.
Comparative segmental disclosures for the year ended 31 March 2012 are as follows: Post Trade Information Technology Capital Markets Services Services Services Other Eliminations Group m m m m m m m Revenue from external customers 301.9 101.6 218.9 52.6 4.8 679.8 Inter-segmental revenue 12.9 12.9 Revenue 301.9 101.6 218.9 65.5 4.8 12.9 679.8 Net treasury income through CCP business 126.9 126.9 Other Income 8.1 8.1 Total income 301.9 228.5 218.9 65.5 12.9 12.9 814.8 Operating profit before amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items 138.9 169.0 125.0 1.8 0.1 7.1 441.9 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 54.9 Non-recurring items 28.5 Operating profit 358.5 profit on disposal acquisition of shares in subsidiary and joint ventures 323.8 Net finance expense 42.6 profit before taxation 639.7 Other income statement items: Depreciation and software amortisation 24.7 5.0 8.7 1.6 0.4 40.4 Share of loss profit after tax of joint ventures associates 1.4 7.3 5.9 Net treasury income through CCP business of 126.9m comprises gross interest income of 964.2m less gross interest expense of 837.3m.
Included within both gross interest income and gross interest expense is 767.3m relating to repo transactions: net of repo transactions gross interest income was 196.9m and gross interest expense was 70.0m.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements 89 Geographical disclosure 2013 2012 m m Revenue UK 325.3 338.2 Italy 132.5 166.9 Other 268.6 174.7 Total 726.4 679.8 Revenue is allocated based on the country in which the customer is located.
Expenses by nature Expenses comprise the following: 2013 2012 m m Cost of sales 60.0 45.8 Employee costs 167.3 151.4 Depreciation and non-acquisition software amortisation 40.4 40.4 Amortisation of purchased intangibles assets and non-recurring costs 100.1 81.0 IT costs 64.5 67.7 Other costs 90.5 73.5 Total expenses 522.8 459.8 Foreign exchange gains or losses included in the income statement are immaterial.
Employee costs Employee costs comprise the following: 2013 2012 Notes m m Salaries and other short term benets 128.1 115.8 Social security costs 19.2 16.6 Pension costs 16 7.5 6.9 Share based compensation 28 12.5 12.1 Total 167.3 151.4 The number of employees in the Group was: 2013 2012 Average Year end Average Year end UK 753 752 760 746 Italy 428 461 422 416 Sri Lanka 654 668 615 655 Other 127 132 119 120 1,962 2,013 1,916 1,937 The Company has no employees.
Average is calculated from date of acquisition of the subsidiary company by the Group.
90 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7.
Amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items 2013 2012 Notes m m Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 13 88.8 54.9 Transaction credits costs 10.7 23.4 Restructuring costs 3.7 Property costs 2.7 Revaluation on acquisition within joint ventures 2.4 Total affecting operating profit 81.8 83.4 profit on acquisition disposal of shares in subsidiary 324.3 Charge for new transaction related revolving credit facility 1.8 Total affecting profit before tax 81.8 239.1 Tax effect on items affecting profit before tax Deferred tax on amortisation of purchased intangible assets 9.1 5.9 Current tax on amortisation of purchased intangible assets 2.2 0.7 Tax effect on other items affecting profit before tax 1.0 2.0 Total tax effect on items affecting profit before tax 12.3 8.6 Total charge credit to income statement 69.5 247.7 Transaction costs comprise charges incurred for ongoing services related to potential or completed acquisitions net of C$29m 18.3m received from TMX Group following the termination of the 2010 merger agreement.
Restructuring costs primarily relate to the integration of the FTSE business.
Net finance expense 2013 2012 Notes m m Finance income Expected return on dened benefit pension scheme assets 16 11.8 13.1 Bank deposit and other interest income 2.4 3.6 Other finance income 0.3 0.1 14.5 16.8 Finance expense Interest payable on bank and other borrowings 48.2 40.6 Dened benefit pension scheme interest cost 16 13.8 13.8 Other finance expenses 2.0 3.2 Non-recurring credit facility arrangement fees 1.8 64.0 59.4 Net finance expense 49.5 42.6 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements 91 9.
Taxation The standard UK corporation tax rate was 24 per cent 26 per cent for the year ended 31 March 2012.
2013 2012 Taxation charged to the income statement Notes m m Current tax: UK corporation tax for the year 30.5 28.6 Overseas tax for the year 78.6 89.1 Adjustments in respect of previous years 16.4 1.8 92.7 119.5 Deferred tax: 15 Deferred tax for the year 0.3 0.2 Adjustments in respect of previous years 0.5 5.5 Deferred tax liability on amortisation of purchased intangible assets 9.1 5.9 Taxation charge 83.4 108.3 The adjustments in respect of previous years corporation tax are mainly in respect of tax returns agreed with relevant tax authorities.
2013 2012 Taxation on items not credited charged to income statement m m Current tax credit: Tax allowance on share options awards in excess of expense recognised 2.0 0.3 Deferred tax loss credit: Dened benefit pension scheme actuarial loss 1.7 12.5 Tax allowance on share options awards in excess of expense recognised 0.5 0.5 Movement in value of available for sale financial assets 0.4 Adjustments relating to change in UK tax rate 0.1 0.6 3.9 12.7 Factors affecting the tax charge for the year The income statement tax charge for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK as explained below: 2013 2012 m m profit before taxation 298.9 639.7 profit multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 71.7 166.3 profit on disposal acquisition of shares in subsidiary 84.3 Income not taxable expenses not deductible 2.2 1.7 Share of joint venture and associates consolidated at profit after tax 0.9 Adjustment arising from change in UK tax rate 0.7 Overseas earnings taxed at higher rate 17.7 21.6 Adjustments in respect of previous years 16.8 3.8 Amortisation of purchased intangibles 12.3 7.7 Taxation charge 83.4 108.3 92 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10.
Earnings per share Earnings per share is presented on four bases: basic earnings per share: diluted earnings per share: adjusted basic earnings per share: and adjusted diluted earnings per share.
Basic earnings per share is in respect of all activities and diluted earnings per share takes into account the dilution effects which would arise on conversion or vesting of share options and share awards under the Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP.
Adjusted basic earnings per share and adjusted diluted earnings per share exclude amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items to enable a better comparison of the underlying earnings of the business with prior periods.
2013 2012 Basic earnings per share 80.4p 193.6p Diluted earnings per share 79.0p 190.9p Adjusted basic earnings per share 105.3p 100.6p Adjusted diluted earnings per share 103.4p 99.2p m m profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders 217.0 522.0 Adjustments: Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 88.8 54.9 Transaction credits costs 10.7 23.4 Restructuring costs 3.7 Property costs 2.7 Revaluation on acquisition within joint ventures 2.4 profit on disposal acquisition of shares in subsidiary 324.3 Charge for new revolving credit facility 1.8 Tax effect of amortisation and non-recurring items 12.3 8.6 Non-recurring items, amortisation and taxation attributable to non-controlling interests 2.5 3.0 Adjusted profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders 284.0 271.3 Weighted average number of shares million 269.8 269.6 Effect of dilutive share options and awards million 4.8 3.8 Diluted weighted average number of shares million 274.6 273.4 The weighted average number of shares excludes those held in the ESOP.
Dividends 2013 2012 m m Final dividend for 2012 paid 20 August 2012: 19.0p per Ordinary share 2011: 18.0p 51.2 48.5 Interim dividend for 2013 paid 7 January 2013 9.7p per Ordinary share 2012: 9.3p 26.2 25.1 77.4 73.6 The Board has proposed a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2013 of 19.8p, per share, which is estimated to amount to 53.4m, to be paid on 19 August 2013.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements 93 12.
94 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13.
The goodwill arising on consolidation represents the growth potential and assembled workforces of the Italian Group, FTSE Group, MillenniumIT and Turquoise.
The Company has no intangible assets.
The addition of 1.1m goodwill arose during the year as a result of the nalisation of the fair value of acquired assets for FTSE Group.
The acquisition of GATElab Srl during the year resulted in goodwill in the Group of 4.1m in the year.
This value is preliminary and will be nalised during the following year.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements 95 Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to the 11 cash generating units CGUs shown in the table below.
The recoverable amounts of these CGUs have been determined based on value in use calculations, using discounted cash ow projections prepared by management covering the five year period ending 31 March 2018.
Cash ows beyond this period are extrapolated using the estimated long term growth rates and applying the pre-tax discount rates referred to below.
The amount of the net book value of goodwill allocated to each CGU is set out below.
Net book value of goodwill Pre-tax discount rate used in value Acquisitions of in use 31 March 2012 Additions subsidiaries Foreign exchange 31 March 2013 calculations m m m m m m Italian group: Issuer 18.3 0.3 18.6 12.0% Equities Trading 61.7 0.9 62.6 12.0% Derivatives Trading 27.6 0.4 28.0 12.1% Fixed Income Trading 69.7 1.0 70.7 12.2% Information Services 114.4 1.5 115.9 12.2% Technology Services 13.5 4.1 0.2 17.8 11.9% Post Trade Services 362.0 5.0 367.0 12.3% MillenniumIT: Software 0.7 0.1 0.8 20.3% Enterprise Service Provider 0.7 0.1 0.8 15.8% Turquoise 7.4 7.4 13.7% FTSE Group 75.6 1.1 76.7 12.9% 751.6 1.1 4.1 9.5 766.3 Management has based its value in use calculations for each CGU on key assumptions about short and medium term revenue and cost growth, long term economic growth rates used to determine terminal values and pre-tax discount rates.
The values assigned to short and medium term revenue and cost growth assumptions reect current trends, anticipated market developments, discussions with customers and suppliers, and managements experience, taking account of an expected recovery in underlying financial markets.
Long term growth rates assumed to be 2.1 per cent for each of the Italian CGUs, 7.0 and 14.5 per cent for MillenniumITs Software and Enterprise Service Provider CGUs respectively, and 2.3 per cent for Turquoise and the FTSE Group represent managements internal forecasts based on external estimates of GDP and ination for the 14 year period 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2017, and do not exceed the long term average growth rates for the countries in which the CGUs operate.
Pre-tax discount rates are based on a number of factors including the risk-free rates in Italy, Sri Lanka and the UK as appropriate, the Groups estimated market risk premium and a premium to reect the inherent risks of each of the CGUs.
Based on the results of the impairment tests performed, management believes there is no impairment of the carrying value of the goodwill in any CGU.
In addition, no impairment of the Companys investments in subsidiary undertakings referred to in note 14 was considered necessary.
96 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Value in use calculations for each CGU are sensitive to changes in short and medium term revenue and cost growth assumptions, long term growth rates and pre-tax discount rates.
The impact on value in use of a change in these assumptions is shown below: Impact on value in use of: Excess of 5% 5% 0.5% reduction 0.5% increase value in use over reduction increase in long term in pre-tax carrying value in revenues in costs growth rate discount rate Cash generating unit m m m m m Italian group: Issuer 47.4 10.9 5.0 6.1 5.7 Equities Trading 30.5 20.7 10.6 10.4 9.6 Derivatives Trading 65.9 9.5 3.7 6.0 5.5 Fixed Income Trading 30.5 35.4 21.9 14.2 13.1 Information Services 133.6 27.5 10.5 16.8 15.3 Technology Services 32.2 11.4 8.4 2.8 2.7 Post Trade Services 584.8 84.8 25.8 58.1 52.2 Management believes goodwill allocated to the FTSE Group, MillenniumIT and Turquoise CGUs is unlikely to be materially impaired under any reasonable changes to key assumptions.
The excess of value in use over carrying value is determined by reference to the net book value as at 31 March 2013.
Revenue and cost sensitivities assume a five per cent change in revenues or costs for each of the five years in the value in use calculations.
Investment in subsidiary undertakings Shares Loans Total Company m m m 1 April 2011 3,422.3 337.4 3,759.7 Subscription for further shares in London Stock Exchange Group Holdings R Ltd 11.7 11.7 Other movements during the year 8.6 8.6 31 March 2012 3,434.0 328.8 3,762.8 Other movements during the year 16.3 16.3 31 March 2013 3,434.0 345.1 3,779.1 Country of Principal Country of principal % equity and Principal subsidiaries: activity incorporation operations votes held Held directly by the Company: London Stock Exchange plc Recognised investment exchange UK UK 100 Held indirectly by the Company: BIt Market Services S. p. A.
Retail information services & market technology Italy Italy 99.99 Borsa Italiana S. p. A. Recognised investment exchange Italy Italy 99.99 Cassa di Compensazione e Garanzia S. p. A. CCP for clearing Italy Italy 99.99 FTSE International Ltd Market indices provider UK UK 100 Monte Titoli S. p. A. Pre-settlement, settlement and centralised custody Italy Italy 98.80 MillenniumIT Software Private Ltd IT solutions provider Sri Lanka Sri Lanka 100 Proquote Ltd Market data provider UK UK 100 Societa per il Mercato dei Titoli di Stato S. p. A.
Wholesale xed income bonds Italy Italy 60.37 Turquoise Global Holdings Ltd Multi-lateral trading facility UK UK 51.36 On 14 December 2012, the Group acquired 67 per cent of the issued equity of GATElab Srl for a total consideration of 5.8m.
Under Regulation 7 of The Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008, the Group elected not to prepare partnership accounts for its indirect partnership interest in London Stock Exchange Connectivity Solutions LP, as its results are contained in the consolidated group accounts.
A full list of subsidiaries will be annexed to the next annual return of London Stock Exchange Group plc.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements 97 15.
Deferred tax The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are shown below.
Acquisition Provisions and Accelerated tax deferred tax and other temporary depreciation amortisation differences Total Group m m m m 1 April 2011 1.7 79.3 0.9 80.1 Tax credited to the income statement: 3.8 5.9 1.5 11.2 Tax credited charged to other comprehensive income: dened benefit pension scheme actuarial loss 12.2 12.2 allowance on share options awards 0.2 0.2 foreign exchange 0.1 4.5 4.4 Balance sheet transfer of pre-acquisition balances 48.4 48.4 31 March 2012 2.0 117.3 14.8 100.5 Tax charged credited to the income statement: 0.4 9.1 0.6 9.3 Tax credited charged to other comprehensive income: dened benefit pension scheme actuarial loss 1.6 1.6 allowance on share options awards 0.6 0.6 movement in value of available for sale financial assets 0.4 0.4 foreign exchange 0.4 0.4 31 March 2013 1.6 108.6 17.2 89.8 Assets at 31 March 2013 1.6 17.6 19.2 Liabilities at 31 March 2013 108.6 0.4 109.0 Net assets liabilities at 31 March 2013 1.6 108.6 17.2 89.8 Assets at 31 March 2012 2.0 14.8 16.8 Liabilities at 31 March 2012 117.3 117.3 Net liabilities assets at 31 March 2012 2.0 117.3 14.8 100.5 The deferred tax assets are recoverable against future taxable profits and are due after more than one year.
The purchased intangible assets of the Italian group create a deferred tax liability due to the difference between their accounting and tax treatment.
This liability is amortised at the same rate as the intangible assets.
The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of losses of 57m 2012: 56m within certain Group subsidiaries.
The assets would be recognised in the future only if suitable taxable income were to arise within the Group.
There was no deferred tax in the Company.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates separate dened benefit and dened contribution schemes.
The assets of the dened benefit and dened contribution schemes in the UK are held separately from those of the Group in a separate trustee administered fund and the funds are primarily managed by Schroder Investment Management Limited, Legal & General Investment Management Limited, PIMCO Europe Limited and Aviva Investors during the year.
The Other plans relate to the severance and leaving indemnity scheme Trattamento di Fine Rapporto TFR operated by the Italian group in accordance with Italian law and the employee benefit and retirement plan operated by MillenniumIT.
The Company has no retirement benefit obligations.
The only scheme operated by FTSE International is a dened contribution scheme.
Defined benefit schemes The UK dened benefit scheme was a non-contributory scheme and closed to new members in 1999.
With effect from 31 March 2012, the scheme also closed to accrual of future benets for active members and it has been agreed that the benets for affected members will remain linked to their salary with the Group.
Pension scheme obligations and costs are determined by an independent qualied actuary on a regular basis using the projected unit credit method.
The obligations are measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash ows to be paid out by the scheme and are reected in the Group balance sheet.
The TFR operated by the Italian group is classied as an unfunded dened benefit scheme for funds accumulated prior to 1 July 2007.
The service cost, representing deferred salaries accruing to employees, was included as an operating expense and was determined by law at 6.91 per cent of salary payments subject to certain adjustments.
The scheme obligation comprises accumulated service costs and is revalued by law at a rate equal to 75 per cent of national life price index 1.5 per cent by an independent qualied actuary.
Since 1 July 2007, the Group retains no obligation, as contributions are made directly into Italian state funds in the manner of a dened contribution scheme.
The employee benefit and retirement plan operated by MillenniumIT is classied as a dened benefit plan.
The net obligation in respect of this plan is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
Once an employee is continuously employed for more than five years, he or she is entitled to a payment equivalent to half a months gross salary multiplied by the number of years in service at MillenniumIT.
98 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Defined contribution schemes The Groups dened contribution schemes are now the only schemes open to new employees in the UK and Italy.
For the UK pension plan, a core contribution of four to eight per cent of pensionable pay is provided and the Group will match employee contributions up to a maximum of six to ten per cent of pensionable pay.
Amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 2013 2012 UK Pension Other plans UK Pension Other plans Notes m m m m Dened contribution schemes 3.4 2.2 3.1 1.2 Dened benefit scheme current service cost 1.9 0.6 2.0 Total pension charge included in employee costs 6 3.4 4.1 3.7 3.2 Finance income and expense Interest expense 13.5 0.3 13.5 0.3 Expected return on assets 11.8 13.1 Net finance expense 1.7 0.3 0.4 0.3 Total recognised in the income statement 5.1 4.4 4.1 3.5 Defined benefit assets obligations for UK pension scheme 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 m m m m m Fair value of assets: Equities 9.4 39.0 39.3 37.2 25.1 Bonds 110.8 67.5 219.5 218.5 202.6 Property 11.4 24.4 23.3 13.3 7.1 Pensioner buy in policy 142.1 133.5 Total fair value of assets 273.7 264.4 282.1 269.0 234.8 Present value of funded obligations 291.4 274.2 244.5 264.4 229.8 deficit surplus 17.7 9.8 37.6 4.6 5.0 The main actuarial assumptions are set out below: 2013 2012 UK pension Italian plan UK pension Italian plan Ination rate RPI 3.4% 2.0% 3.4% 2.0% Ination rate CPI 2.4% 2.4% Rate of increase in salaries 3.4% 3.5% 4.4% 3.5% Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.6% 3.0% 3.6% 3.0% Discount rate 4.5% 3.0% 5.0% 4.0% Expected return on assets equities 7.3% bonds 3.8% property 6.5% pensioner buy in policy 5.0% Life expectancy from age 60 Years Non retired male member 28.0 27.9 Non retired female member 30.8 30.7 Retired male member 26.5 26.3 Retired female member 29.3 29.2 The mortality assumptions are based on the standard tables S1NA published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries adjusted to take account of projected future improvements in life expectancy from the Self Administered Pension Scheme SAPS mortality survey, which was published in 2008.
We have used an allowance for the medium cohort effect and applied a one per cent underpin in respect of future mortality improvements.
Sensitivities The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme obligations are: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme obligations Ination rate Increase decrease by 0.5% Increase decrease by 4.2m Rate of increase in pensions payment Increase decrease by 0.5% Increase decrease by 19.6m Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.5% Decrease increase by 23.4m Mortality rate Increase by 1 year Increase by 8.7m OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements 99 Movement in defined benefit obligation during the year 2013 2012 UK Pension Other plans UK Pension Other plans m m m m 1 April 274.2 6.7 244.5 6.4 Current service cost 1.9 0.6 2.0 Interest expense 13.5 0.3 13.5 0.3 Benets paid 9.0 1.4 8.7 1.6 Actuarial loss gain 12.7 0.1 24.3 0.1 Foreign exchange 0.3 0.3 31 March 291.4 7.9 274.2 6.7 Movement in fair value of UK plan assets during the year 2013 2012 m m 1 April 264.4 282.1 Expected return on assets 11.8 13.1 Contributions received 0.6 1.3 Benets paid 9.0 8.7 Actuarial gain loss 5.9 23.4 31 March 273.7 264.4 The actual return on plan assets was 17.7m 2012 loss: 10.3 million.
Defined benefit actuarial gains and losses recognised The experience adjustments and the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions of the pension scheme during the year are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income: 2013 2012 UK Pension Other plans UK Pension Other plans m m m m Recognised up to 1 April 12.9 0.9 34.8 1.0 Net actuarial loss gain recognised in the year 6.8 0.1 47.7 0.1 Cumulative amount recognised at 31 March 19.7 1.0 12.9 0.9 The last actuarial valuation of the dened benefit scheme was carried out at 31 March 2012 by an independent qualied actuary.
The Group is currently in discussion on the contributions to the dened benefit scheme during the year to 31 March 2014.
The next actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2015 may result in an adjustment to future contribution levels.
The Group estimates the present value of the duration of dened benefit obligations on average to fall due over 20 years.
History of experience gains and losses for the UK pension scheme 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets: Experience gain loss m 5.9 23.4 5.3 25.6 11.2 Percentage of scheme assets 2.2% 8.9% 1.9% 9.5% 4.8% Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities: Experience gain loss m 9.5 3.9 1.5 7.5 1.3 Impact of changes in assumptions m 22.2 20.4 25.3 34.9 1.1 Total m 12.7 24.3 26.8 27.4 0.2 Percentage of scheme liabilities Experience gain loss 3.3% 1.4% 0.6% 2.8% 0.6% Impact of changes in assumptions 7.6% 7.4% 10.3% 13.2% 0.5% Total 4.3% 8.8% 10.9% 10.4% 0.1% 100 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17.
Trade and other receivables Group Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Trade receivables 121.2 114.7 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 6.1 7.8 Trade receivables net 115.1 106.9 Amounts due from Group undertakings 579.4 585.9 Other receivables 5.9 4.1 Prepayments and accrued income 64.7 67.3 0.3 185.7 178.3 579.4 586.2 The carrying values less impairment provision of trade and other receivables are reasonable approximations of fair values.
Trade receivables that are not past due are not considered to be impaired.
The ageing of past due debtors for the Group is as follows: 2013 2012 Impaired Not impaired Impaired Not impaired m m m m 0 to 3 months past due 0.1 40.9 0.1 47.9 Greater than 3 months past due 6.0 9.7 7.7 12.4 6.1 50.6 7.8 60.3 The carrying amount of the Groups trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2013 2012 m m Sterling 98.3 98.8 Euro 58.4 57.2 Other Currencies 29.0 22.3 185.7 178.3 Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2013 2012 m m 1 April 7.8 7.3 Provision for receivables impairment 1.4 1.6 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 0.9 0.6 Provisions no longer required 2.2 0.4 Foreign exchange 0.1 31 March 6.1 7.8 The creation and release of the provision for impaired receivables have been included in operating expenses in the income statement.
Amounts charged to the allowance account are written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
The other classes within trade and other receivables and the other categories of financial assets do not contain impaired assets.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements 101 18.
Financial instruments by category The financial instruments of the Group and Company are categorised as follows: Group Company Assets at fair Assets at fair Loans and value through Loans and value through receivables Available for sale profit or loss Total receivables profit or loss Total 31 March 2013 m m m m m m m Assets as per balance sheet Financial assets of the CCP clearing business CCP trading assets 3,426.6 3,426.6 Receivables for repurchase transactions 127,036.2 127,036.2 Other receivables from clearing members 7,144.8 7,144.8 Financial assets held at fair value 12.6 12.6 Cash and cash equivalents of clearing members 2,681.1 5,795.1 8,476.2 Financial assets of the CCP clearing business 138,862.1 5,795.1 3,439.2 146,096.4 Assets held at fair value 6.1 6.1 Total financial assets for CCP clearing 142,657.2 3,445.3 146,102.5 Trade and other receivables 121.0 121.0 579.4 579.4 Cash and cash equivalents 446.2 446.2 0.1 0.1 Available for sale financial assets 11.9 11.9 Cross currency interest rate swaps 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.3 0.3 Total 137,429.3 5,807.0 3,449.6 146,685.9 579.5 4.0 583.5 Group Company Derivatives used Other financial Derivatives used Other financial for hedging liabilities Total for hedging liabilities Total m m m m m m Liabilities as per balance sheet Financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business CCP trading liabilities 3,426.6 3,426.6 Liabilities under repurchase transactions 127,036.2 127,036.2 Other payables to clearing members 15,610.4 15,610.4 Financial liabilities held at fair value 14.9 14.9 Financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business 146,088.1 146,088.1 Trade and other payables 233.4 233.4 160.9 160.9 Provisions 27.3 27.3 Borrowings 796.8 796.8 796.4 796.4 Cross currency interest rate swaps 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.5 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.1 0.1 Total 3.5 147,145.7 147,149.2 3.5 957.3 960.8 The valuation of CCP assets held at fair value through profit or loss is performed with reference to quoted prices from the markets to which they relate and therefore are all considered to be level 1.
The derivative financial instruments are considered to be level 2.
The cross currency interest rate swaps amounting to 6 contracts of 50m each, effectively exchange some of the proceeds of the 2016 and the 2019 250m bonds from sterling into euros to better match the currency of borrowings to the Groups currency of earnings, to reduce exposure to euro denominated net assets and to protect sterling cash ow.
These are designated as a hedge of the Groups net investment in the Italian group and qualify for effective hedge accounting as both legs of the swap are at xed rate and the cash ow components of the swaps exactly match the terms of the underlying bonds.
For the year ended 31 March 2013, the Group recognised the 2.5m movement in mark to market value of these derivatives in reserves 2012: 15.6m.
Foreign exchange forward contracts were arranged during the year to hedge the fair value of USD denominated exposures.
These hedges forward buy and sell USD payables and receivables, with the mark to market adjustments offsetting the hedged item revaluation in the income statement.
This offers more predictable sterling cash ows to the Group at maturity.
At 31 March 2013, USD9.9m of receivables and USD7.8m of payables were hedged forward into the next financial year.
The market value of the hedges was 0.1m in aggregate.
The Group also entered into forward exchange contracts totalling CAD83.0m for highly probable forecast CAD outows which were due to mature in the following financial year.
These contracts qualify for treatment as an effective cash ow hedge with mark-to-market movements being recognised directly in equity.
The market value of the CAD contracts totalled 0.3m.
The Groups financial assets held at fair value consist largely of Italian equities restricted in use for the operations of CC&G as manager of the clearing and guarantee system.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as trading and available-for-sale securities is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The nature and composition of the CCP clearing business assets and liabilities is explained in the accounting policies note on pages 83-84.
102 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As at 31 March 2013, there were no provisions for impairment in relation to any of the CCP financial assets 2012: nil and none of these assets were past due 2012: nil.
The financial instruments of the Group and the Company at the previous years balance sheet date were as follows: Group Company Assets at fair Assets at fair Loans and value through Loans and value through receivables Available for sale profit or loss Total receivables profit or loss Total 31 March 2012 m m m m m m m Assets as per balance sheet Financial assets of the CCP clearing business CCP trading assets 4,167.6 4,167.6 Receivables for repurchase transactions 84,968.2 84,968.2 Other receivables from clearing members 4,410.5 4,410.5 Financial assets held at fair value 73.3 73.3 Cash and cash equivalents of clearing members 6,137.3 6,137.3 Financial assets of the CCP clearing business 95,516.0 4,240.9 99,756.9 Assets held at fair value 14.6 14.6 Total financial assets for CCP clearing 95,516.0 4,255.5 99,771.5 Trade and other receivables 111.0 111.0 585.9 585.9 Cash and cash equivalents 216.0 216.0 0.2 0.2 Available for sale financial assets 0.4 0.4 Cross currency interest rate swaps 5.2 5.2 5.2 5.2 Total 95,843.0 0.4 4,260.7 100,104.1 586.1 5.2 591.3 Group Company Derivatives used Other financial Derivatives used Other financial for hedging liabilities Total for hedging liabilities Total m m m m m m Liabilities as per balance sheet Financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business CCP trading liabilities 4,167.7 4,167.7 Liabilities under repurchase transactions 84,968.2 84,968.2 Other payables to clearing members 10,537.9 10,537.9 Financial liabilities held at fair value 73.4 73.4 Financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business 99,747.2 99,747.2 Trade and other payables 237.5 237.5 315.7 315.7 Provisions 30.1 30.1 Borrowings 757.1 757.1 746.6 746.6 Cross currency interest rate swaps 2.1 2.1 2.1 2.1 Total 2.1 100,771.9 100,774.0 2.1 1,062.3 1,064.4 19.
Cash and cash equivalents Group Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Cash at bank 217.0 116.5 0.1 0.2 Short term deposits 229.2 99.5 446.2 216.0 0.1 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents is held with authorised counterparties of a high credit standing, in interest bearing current and call accounts, short term deposits and AAA rated money market funds.
Management does not expect any losses from non-performance by the counterparties holding cash and cash equivalents, and there are no differences between their book and fair values.
Cash and cash equivalents does not include amounts held by CC&G on behalf of its clearing members, the use of which is restricted to the operation of CC&G as manager of the clearing and guarantee system see note 18.
Cash and cash equivalents includes amounts held by regulated entities for regulatory and operational purposes.
At 31 March 2013, the Group set aside 200.0m 2012: 165.0m for such purposes, with the amount subject to regular review with regulators in the UK and Italy.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements 103 20.
Borrowings Group Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Current Bank borrowings and trade finance loans 0.4 10.5 0.4 10.5 Non-current Bonds 796.5 499.4 796.5 499.4 Bank borrowings 247.5 247.5 Deferred arrangement fees 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.3 796.4 746.6 796.4 746.6 The Group has the following committed bank facilities and unsecured notes: Interest rate Carrying value at percentage at Notes Facility 31 March 2013 31 March 2013 Type Expiry Date m m % Drawn value of Facilities Multi-currency revolving credit facility Jul 2013 250.0 LIBOR 0.8 Multi-currency revolving credit facility Dec 2014 350.0 LIBOR 1.25 Multi-currency revolving credit facility Nov 2015 250.0 LIBOR 1.0 Total Bank Facilities 850.0 Notes due July 2016 Jul 2016 250.0 251.3 6.125 Notes due October 2019 Oct 2019 250.0 247.9 9.125 Notes due November 2021 Nov 2021 300.0 297.3 4.75 Total Bonds 800.0 796.5 Total Committed Facilities 1,650.0 796.5 MillenniumIT and MillenniumIT Software have un-committed overdraft facility drawings of 0.4m 2012: 0.5m.
The Groups three committed bank facility arrangements were undrawn at 31 March 2013.
CC&G has direct intra-day access to renancing with the Bank of Italy to cover its operational liquidity requirements.
In addition, uncommitted tri-party credit lines of 750 million are available from Bank of Italy with renancing from major Italian banks in relation to support of the MTS markets.
If these are drawn they are guaranteed by CCP assets comprising Italian Government Bonds.
CC&G also has available to it 150m of committed facilities with banks, for short term CCP related activity purposes only.
104 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Non-current borrowings In July 2006, the Company issued a 250m bond which is unsecured and is due for repayment in July 2016.
Interest is paid semi-annually in arrears in January and July each year.
The issue price of the bond was 99.679 per 100 nominal.
The coupon on the bond is dependent on movements in the Companys credit rating with Moodys which was unchanged throughout the financial year.
The bond coupon remained at 6.125 per cent per annum throughout this period.
In June 2009, the Company issued another 250m bond which is unsecured and is due for repayment in October 2019.
Interest is paid semi-annually in arrears in April and October each year.
The issue price of the bond was 99.548 per 100 nominal.
The coupon on the bond is dependent on the Companys credit ratings with Moodys and Standard & Poors which were unchanged throughout the financial year.
The bond coupon remained at 9.125 per cent per annum throughout this period.
In November 2012, the Company issued a further 300m bond under its euro medium term notes programme launched at the same time which is unsecured and is due for repayment in November 2021.
Interest is paid semi-annually in arrears in May and November each year.
The issue price of the bond was 100 per 100 nominal.
The coupon on the bond is xed at 4.75 per cent per annum.
Fair values The fair values of the Groups borrowings are as follows: Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value 2013 2013 2012 2012 Group m m m m Borrowings within one year 0.4 0.4 10.5 10.5 after more than one year 796.4 942.4 746.6 832.8 796.8 942.8 757.1 843.3 The fair values of the Companys borrowings are as follows: Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value 2013 2013 2012 2012 m m m m Borrowings after more than one year 796.4 942.4 746.6 832.8 796.4 942.4 746.6 832.8 The fair values of borrowings are based on discounted cash ows using a rate based on borrowing cost.
Floating rate borrowings bear interest at an agreed margin over LIBOR.
The carrying amounts of the Groups borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 2013 2012 Drawn Swapped Effective Drawn Swapped Effective Currency m m m m m m Sterling 796.4 255.5 540.9 735.1 250.2 484.9 Euro 255.5 255.5 250.2 250.2 Sri Lankan Rupees 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.5 Hong Kong Dollars 21.5 21.5 Total 796.8 796.8 757.1 757.1 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements 105 22.
Analysis of net debt Group Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Due within one year Cash and cash equivalents 446.2 216.0 0.1 0.2 Bank borrowings 0.4 10.5 Derivative financial liabilities 0.1 445.7 205.5 0.1 0.2 Due after one year Deferred arrangement fees bank borrowings 0.1 247.2 0.1 247.2 Bonds 796.5 499.4 796.4 499.4 Derivative financial assets 4.3 5.2 4.0 5.2 Derivative financial liabilities 3.5 2.1 3.5 2.1 Total net debt 349.9 538.0 795.7 743.3 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt Group Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Increase decrease in cash in the year 227.6 42.9 0.3 0.6 Bond issue proceeds 297.6 297.6 Bank loan repayments less new drawings 257.8 224.3 247.8 247.2 Change in net debt resulting from cash ows 187.8 267.2 50.0 247.8 Foreign exchange movements 2.6 7.7 0.4 Movement on derivative financial assets and liabilities 2.4 15.6 2.6 15.6 Bond valuation adjustment 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Acquired debt 34.2 Net debt at the start of the year 538.0 244.6 743.3 511.2 Net debt at the end of the year 349.9 538.0 795.7 743.3 23.
Provisions Property Group m 1 April 2011 31.5 Utilised during the year 3.8 Interest on discounted provision 1.4 Acquired during the year 1.0 31 March 2012 30.1 Utilised during the year 4.1 Interest on discounted provision 1.3 31 March 2013 27.3 Current 1.1 Non-current 26.2 31 March 2013 27.3 The property provision represents the estimated net present value of future costs for lease rentals and dilapidation costs less the expected receipts from sub-letting space which is surplus to business requirements.
The leases have between one and 15 years to expiry.
The Company has no provisions.
Ordinary share capital 2013 2012 Authorised millions m millions m 79 Ordinary shares of 6 86p 271.1 18.8 271.1 18.8 More information about the shares and rights attached to the ordinary shares is given in the Directors Report on page 72.
106 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25.
Net cash flow generated from operations Group Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m profit before taxation 298.9 639.7 159.1 136.8 Depreciation and amortisation 129.2 95.3 Property impairment 2.7 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.5 profit on acquisition disposal of shares in subsidiary and joint venture 323.8 Net finance expense income 49.5 42.6 148.9 187.3 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures 3.5 Decrease increase in inventories 0.5 0.9 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 3.0 13.8 3.2 1.0 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 9.6 2.9 10.2 2.1 Borrowing costs capitalised 0.5 0.6 Goodwill valuation amendment 1.2 Increase decrease in CCP financial assets 43,590.5 7,702.5 Increase decrease in CCP clearing business liabilities 43,594.4 7,709.8 Dened benefit pension obligation contributions in excess of lower than expenses charged 1.0 0.2 Provisions utilised during the year 6.1 3.8 Decrease increase in assets held at fair value from operating activities 8.0 6.7 Share scheme expense 13.1 12.1 Foreign exchange gains losses on operating activities 4.3 0.9 2.5 27.0 Cash generated from absorbed by operations 487.5 462.4 0.1 22.4 Comprising: Ongoing operating activities 480.5 483.7 0.1 4.2 Non-recurring items 7.0 21.3 18.2 487.5 462.4 0.1 22.4 26.
Commitments and contingencies Contracted capital commitments and other contracted commitments not provided for in the financial statements of the Group were 1.6m 2012: 5.6m and 13.2m 2012: 13.5m respectively.
11.5m of other contracted commitments represent professional and other fees relating to the proposed transaction with LCH.
Clearnet, the majority of which were conditional on completion, on 1 May 2013.
Leases The Group leases various ofce properties and equipment under non-cancellable operating leases.
The total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are due as follows: Property Equipment 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Leases expiring in: Less than one year 25.3 24.9 1.4 3.1 More than one year and less than five years 84.0 80.3 1.6 More than five years 82.7 99.6 192.0 204.8 1.4 4.7 Operating lease payments of 25.6m 2012: 21.5m were charged to the income statement in the year in relation to property and 3.0m 2012: 3.4m in the year in relation to equipment.
The total future minimum lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable operating leases for property where the Group is lessor are due as follows: Property 2013 2012 Leases expiring in: m m Less than one year 8.2 4.6 More than one year and less than five years 21.2 17.0 More than five years 10.9 11.2 40.3 32.8 The Company has no lease commitments.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements 107 28.
Share Schemes The London Stock Exchange Group Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, approved at the 2004 AGM, has two elements, a conditional award of Performance Shares and an award of Matching Shares linked to investment by the executive of annual bonus in the Companys shares.
Vesting of these awards is dependent upon the Companys total shareholder return performance and for awards made since 2008, adjusted basic earnings per share.
Further details are provided in the Remuneration Report on pages 60-71.
Under the Groups previous share option plan approved by shareholders in 2002, the maximum value of shares placed under option to an individual was equivalent to 100 per cent of their annual salary.
No further awards will be made under this scheme.
Prior to 2002, under the previous long term incentive scheme comprising the Initial and Annual Share Plans option grants and share awards were made based on approvals prior to the Groups listing in July 2001.
No further option grants or share awards will be made under this scheme apart from the SAYE scheme available to all staff.
Under both the Initial and Annual Share Plan, share awards have a vesting period of three years and share options become exercisable at 20 per cent per annum over five years with a contractual life of 10 years.
The SAYE scheme and International Sharesave Plan provide for grants of options to employees who enter into a SAYE savings contract and options were granted at 20 per cent below fair market value.
Share awards were granted at nil cost to employees and other share options were granted at fair market value or above.
The Group established an ESOP discretionary trust to administer the share plans and to acquire the shares to meet commitments to Group employees.
At the year end 1,128,556 2012: 1,215,289 shares were held by the trust, funded by an interest free loan from the Group.
The Company has no employees, but in accordance with SIC 12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities has the obligation for the assets, liabilities, income and costs of the ESOP trust and these have been consolidated in the Groups financial statements.
The cost of the Groups shares held by the trust are deducted from retained earnings.
The range of exercise prices and weighted average remaining contractual life of awards and options outstanding are as follows: 2013 2012 Weighted average Weighted average Number remaining Number remaining outstanding contractual life outstanding contractual life Share options Between 3 and 4 153,935 0.3 250,686 1.8 Above 4 229,180 4.7 153,554 3.3 SAYE Above 6 685,070 2.2 489,271 2.8 LTIP Nil 6,492,473 1.4 6,093,311 1.3 Total 7,560,658 1.6 6,986,822 1.7 108 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The fair value of share awards and share options granted during the year was determined using a stochastic valuation model.
The key assumptions used in the valuation were as follows: Performance Related Equity Plan Share Save Matching Performance Restricted Market Value Plan Shares Shares Shares Options 10 Jan 2013 21 Jun 2012 19 Jun 2012 19 Jun 2012 19 Jun 2012 Grant date share price 11.39 10.00 9.85 9.85 9.85 Exercise price 8.20 n. a n. a n. a 9.71 Volatility 31% 33% 33% 33% 33% Expected life 3.14 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 4 years Dividend yield 2.50% 2.80% 2.90% 2.90% 2.90% Fair value 3.48 Fair value TSR 3.17 3.12 3.26 1.54 Fair value EPS 9.18 9.02 9.02 2.06 The volatility assumption is based on a statistical analysis of weekly share prices since the London Stock Exchanges otation in July 2001.
The fair value for the Performance and Matching Shares granted during the year is based on a Total Shareholder Return TSR pricing model which takes into account of the TSR vesting condition.
All other fair values of shares granted is based on a Black-Scholes model.
Holders of share awards and share options are not entitled to receive dividends declared during the vesting period.
Transactions with Related Parties Key management compensation Compensation for Directors of the Company and key personnel who have authority for planning, directing and controlling the Group: 2013 2012 m m Salaries and other short term benets 8.9 9.0 Pensions 0.5 0.4 Share based payments 4.6 0.2 14.0 9.6 Inter-company transactions with subsidiary undertakings The Company has loan agreements with some subsidiary undertakings.
Details as at 31 March 2013 are shown in the table below: Amount in millions due Interest in millions owed to from as at 31 March Interest rate as at charge credit Loan counterparty 2013 2012 Term 31 March 2013 2013 2012 London Stock Exchange plc 88.7 m 236.5 m 25 years from May 2006 with LIBOR plus 6.8 m 4.0 m five equal annual repayments 2% per annum commencing in May 2027.
London Stock Exchange 14.2m 10.9m Repayable on demand.
Non-interest nil nil Employee benefit Trust bearing London Stock Exchange Group 450.0m 450.0m Five years from March 2009, EURIBOR plus 24.4m 27.5m Holdings Italy Limited repayable in full on maturity 4.0% per annum1 Italian Branch in March 2014.
London Stock Exchange Group 94.5m 122.0m 20 years from January 2008 EURIBOR plus 2.6m 3.9m Holdings Italy Limited with five equal repayments 1.2% per annum Italian Branch commencing in January 2024.
London Stock Exchange Group 463.6m 461.1m Fifth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus 22.1m 6.7m Holdings Limited utilisation date which was 4.0% per annum October 2009.
London Stock Exchange Group 0.6 m 0.6 m Fifth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus nil nil Holdings R Limited utilisation date which was 1.5% per annum April 2011.
Cassa di Compensazione nil 40.0 m One year from initial utilisation EURIBOR plus 0.5 m 0.1 m e Garanzia S. p. A. date which was January 2012.
1.2% per annum Monte Titoli S. p. A.
31.9 m 18.2 m One year from initial utilisation date EURIBOR plus 0.4 m nil which was January 2012, extended 1.2% per annum for further six months to July 2013.
Societa Mercato Titoli di Stato S. p. A.
22.2 m 5.7 m One year from initial utilisation date EURIBOR plus 0.2 m nil which was January 2012, extended 1.2% per annum for further six months to July 2013.
London Stock Exchange C Limited 13.8m nil Fifth anniversary of the initial EURIBOR plus 0.3 m nil utilisation date which was 1.5% per annum April 2012.
1 The interest margin was reduced to 3.5 per cent per annum on 22 March 2013.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements 109 During the year the Company charged in respect of employee share schemes 8.0m 2012: 8.8m to London Stock Exchange plc, 2.8m 2012: 2.8m to London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Italy Ltd, 0.7m 2012: 0.5m to Millennium Information and 1.2m 2012: nil to FTSE Group.
The Company received dividends of 112.4m 2012: 121.8m and 60.0m 2012: 90.0m respectively from its subsidiaries London Stock Exchange plc and London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Italy Limited.
Other Statutory Information Auditors remuneration payable to  LLP PwC and its associates comprise the following: 2013 2012 m m Audit of parent and consolidated financial statements 0.2 0.2 Audit of subsidiary companies 1.0 0.9 Audit related assurance services 0.4 0.3 Other non-audit services: Taxation 0.2 0.1 Corporate finance 0.6 2.8 Other assurance services 0.1 Total expenses 2.5 4.3 Further details of the services provided by PwC are given in the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee on pages 58-59.
Directors emoluments comprise the following: 2013 2012 m m Salary and fees 2.6 2.5 Performance bonus 2.6 2.6 Gains made on share awards 4.9 0.2 Benets 0.3 0.1 10.4 5.4 Contributions to dened contribution schemes 0.3 0.3 10.7 5.7 During the year no Directors 2012: two had retirement benets accruing under dened contribution schemes and one Director 2012: none had retirement benets accruing under a dened benefit scheme.
Further details of Directors emoluments are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 60-71.
Post balance sheet events On 5 April 2013, FTSE Group and TMX Group Limited announced the completion of the transaction to combine their xed income businesses in a new joint venture, FTSE TMX Global Debt Capital Markets.
A cash consideration of CAD112.2m was paid to TMX for a 75 per cent holding in the joint venture with TMX holding the remaining interest.
On 1 May 2013, the Group completed the majority acquisition of LCH.
The Group acquired 55.5 per cent of the share capital which in addition to the 2.3 per cent already held gives the Group a total holding of 57.8 per cent.
The consideration paid was 328m with up to a further 23m payable as deferred consideration.
In addition to the acquisition the Group will participate in a capital raise, in proportion to its shareholding, resulting in a further 185m investment.
