110 Shareholder information London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 MARKET STRUCTURES To understand all the services offered by a diversied exchange business, it is important to be aware of both the process of trading financial instruments and the various trading platforms available within the EU.
With an effective date of introduction of November 2007, the EUs Markets in Financial Instruments Directive sought to increase competition and consumer protection in investment services.
Information provided here focuses on two main areas: The process of trading PROCESS EXPLANATION THE GROUPS INVOLVEMENT Electronic trading Computerised systems for matching buy and sell Equities London and Italian orders of financial instruments, such as equities, trading platforms and Turquoise bonds and derivatives.
pan-European trading ETFs, ETCs London and Italian trading platforms Bonds MTS, MOT and ORB Derivatives Turquoise, IDEM, IDEX and AGREX Clearing After a trade has been matched by a trading system, CC&G acts as a CCP for Italian cash equities, it is usually cleared.
At this stage, a central counterparty derivatives and xed income.
CC&G also CCP may stand between the buyer and seller.
In provides non-guaranteed clearing processing simultaneously buying from the seller, and selling to the functions for London Stock Exchange equities buyer, the CCP reduces the counterparty risk to both and Turquoise derivatives.
This is because if one party defaults, the CCP will still ensure that the trade is completed with the other party.
Following completion of the acquisition of a majority stake in LCH.
Clearnet in May 2013, the Group now has ownership of clearing services in the UK, France and the US.
Settlement Settlement is the process of delivering title to the Monte Titoli operates the X-TRM and EXPRESS financial instrument to the buyer against payment to the II systems, which cover Italian pre-settlement seller.
For equities, this normally takes place three days and settlement, creating netted settlement after the trade.
Netted settlement reduces a large number instructions, making the actual payments of positions to a single position payment.
operates both for transactions through a trading system and those completed over the counter OTC.
Custody A custodian or Central Securities Depositary undertakes the Monte Titoli provides Italian custody services safekeeping and administration of securities on behalf of for financial instruments such as equities issuers and investors.
and bonds, whether dematerialised or in paper form.
fide-materialised securities are those that can be held without the need for paper certicates.
Post Trade OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Shareholder information Market structures 111 Trading under MiFID EXPLANATION ATTRIBUTES THE GROUPS INVOLVEMENT Exchange model Traded through trading platforms run by an Regulated Trading platforms for trading operator of a Regulated Market.
Order driven offered by the London Neutral Stock Exchange and Transparent Borsa Italiana, including Liquid securities listed and or Widest stock coverage admitted to trading on Widest client base the Groups primary markets On exchange business done off order book Telephone trading On exchange trade and reported to a Regulated Market.
reporting and publication MTF MiFID allowed for the setting up of Multilateral Trading Regulated MTF services provided Facilities, new pan-European trading ventures thereby Order driven through Turquoise promoting venue choice.
Trading is mainly of securities Neutral and Euro MTS listed on the primary market of a regulated exchange.
Transparent Can include dark pool trading see below OTC Over-the-counter bilateral market conducted through Regulated participants OTC trade reporting electronic systems or by telephone.
Electronically Large or block trades and publication connected market consisting of dealers who are in Way to trade less services constant contact, thereby facilitating trading directly liquid stocks between two parties.
What is dark pool trading?
Private trading networks within Europe these are MTFs developed to enable the internal matching of orders between buyers and sellers without being visible until the trade is complete, thereby creating a regulated environment in which to execute larger trades.
Turquoise, the Groups pan-European MTF, provides a dark pool service, as well as Lit trading whereby traders can see potential buy and sell orders in advance.
Brokers also operate OTC dark pools.
