Strategic report 107 Corporate governance Man Group plc Financial statements Annual Report 2013 Other information Mans literary sponsorships Man first took on the sponsorship of the Man Booker Prize for Fiction in Man sponsors two major literary prizes 2002.
The prize, which was launched in 1969 and receives worldwide the annual Man Booker Prize for recognition, aims to promote excellence in fiction by awarding the best full-length novel published in the English language that year.
As of 2014, Fiction and the biennial Man Booker the rules of the prize have expanded to include writers beyond the UK, Republic of Ireland and Commonwealth, as long as they are writing International Prize.
originally in English and are published in the UK.
The novel must be an original, non-self published work in English.
Winning the Man Booker Prize is considered the ultimate accolade by many writers.
As former prize-winner Graham Swift commented: Prizes dont make writers and writers dont write to win prizes, but in the near-glut of literary awards now on offer its the one which, if were completely honest, we most covet.
Eleanor Catton, who won the prize in 2013 for The Luminaries, made Man Booker history by being the youngest ever winner at the age of 28, having started writing the novel when she was just 25 years old.
At 832 pages, The Luminaries is the longest work to ever win the prize.
The chair of the judges, Robert Macfarlane, commented Its a dazzling work.
It is vast without being sprawling.
Catton was presented with the prize by the Duchess of Cornwall and Mans Chief Executive, Emmanuel Roman, on 15 October 2013 at Guildhall.
The Man Booker International prize is awarded every two years to a living author who has published fiction either originally in English or whose work is generally available in translation in English.
It differs from the annual Man Booker Prize in that it highlights one writers overall contribution to fiction on the world stage, rather than a single work.
The 2013 prize went to US author Lydia Davis.
