102 Man Group plc Annual Report 2013 Notes to the Company financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom issued by the Accounting Standards Board and with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The comparative information provided is from the date of incorporation 8 August 2012 to 31 December 2012.
The Company reviews and updates its accounting policies on a regular basis in accordance with FRS 18.
These policies have been applied consistently throughout the period.
The Company has adopted FRS 29 and has taken advantage of the exemption from providing further financial risk disclosures.
The Companys financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
For further details, refer to Note 1 in the Group financial statements.
Scheme of arrangement Man Group plc was incorporated on 8 August 2012 and became the new listed holding company of the Man Group on 6 November 2012 via a Court approved scheme of arrangement under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006, with the former holding company being renamed Man Strategic Holdings plc.
Under the scheme of arrangement, shares in the former holding company of the Group, were cancelled and the same number of new ordinary shares were issued to the new holding company in consideration for the allotment to shareholders of one ordinary share of $1.07 in the new holding company 3 7 for each ordinary share of 3 US cents they held in the former holding company.
On 8 November 2012, Man Group plc effected a reduction of its share capital to create distributable reserves, as sanctioned by the High Court.
3 7 Thiscapital reduction reduced the nominal value of ordinary shares in the new holding company from $1.07 to 3 US cents.
Result for the period The profit after tax for the year was $256 million five month period ended 31 December 2012: $6 million loss.
In accordance with Section 408 of the Act, a separate profit and loss account has not been presented for the Company.
There are no recognised gains and losses other than the result for the period and hence no statement of recognised gains and losses for the Company has been presented.
Foreign currency transactions Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction or, where it is more practical, an average rate for the week or month for all transactions in each foreign currency occurring during that week or month as long as the relevant exchange rates do not fluctuate significantly.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at period end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in other operating income and losses in the profit and loss account.
Dividends Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the financial statements, and directly in equity, in the period in which the dividend is paid or approved by the Companys shareholders, if required.
Dividends received from subsidiary undertakings are recognised in the period in which they are received.
Refer to Note 11 in the consolidated financial statements for more information on dividends paid during the year.
Investments 31 December 31 December $m 2013 2012 Shares in group undertakings At 1 January 2012: 8 August 2012 2,445 Additions 2,439 Share-based payment 9 6 2,454 2,445 The Companys shares in subsidiary undertakings are stated in the balance sheet of the Company at cost less provision for any impairment incurred.
The additions in the prior period relate to the Companys investment in Man Strategic Holdings plc, when it became the new group holding company on 6 November 2012 under the scheme of arrangement, as described in Note 1.
The share-based payment relates to the grant by the Company of share awards over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings, which is treated as a capital contribution.
The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to reserves.
Details of the principal Group subsidiaries are given on page 99.
Strategic report 103 Corporate governance Man Group plc Financial statements Annual Report 2013 Other information 3.
Debtors amounts falling due within one year 31 December 31 December $m 2013 2012 Amounts owed by group undertakings 2 Current tax assets 6 2 6 4 4.
Creditors amounts falling due within one year 31 December 31 December $m 2013 2012 Amounts owed to group undertakings 28 8 Other creditors 2 28 10 5.
Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds Share Called up premium Merger Profit and loss $m share capital account reserve account Total At 8 August 2012 Issue of ordinary share capital 1,948 491 2,439 Capital reduction 1,885 1,885 Share-based payment 6 6 Loss for the financial period 6 6 At 31 December 2012 63 491 1,885 2,439 Issue of ordinary share capital 5 5 Profit for the financial year 256 256 Share-based payment 9 9 Dividends 277 277 At 31 December 2013 63 5 491 1,873 2,432 During the prior period, the Company undertook a Court approved capital reduction, the effect of which was to reduce the nominal value of the Company shares and increase distributable reserves.
The allotted and fully paid share capital of the Company is detailed in Note 21 of the Group financial statements.
Directors remuneration Details of the individual directors emoluments, options, share awards and loans and key management compensation disclosures is given in the Directors remuneration report on pages 40 to 59.
Statutory and other information There are no employees of the Company.
The directors of the Company were paid by another Group company in the period.
Shares in the Company are awarded granted to directors and employees through the Groups share schemes.
Details relating to these share awards grants are given in the Remuneration report on pages 40 to 59.
The Company provides financial instruments disclosures in accordance with IFRS 7 in the Group financial statements on pages 62 to 99.
Consequently the Company has taken advantage of the FRS 29 exemption from providing further financial instruments disclosures.
The Company provides full related party disclosures on page 98.
Consequently the Company has taken advantage of the exemption not to disclose related party transactions with other members of Man Group plc.
Post balance sheet events On 27 February 2014, the Board announced its intention to launch a $115 million share repurchase programme to return surplus capital to shareholders, which will be conducted over the remainder of the year.
104 Man Group plc Annual Report 2013 Independent auditors report to the members of Man Group plc on the Parent Company financial statements Report on the Parent Company financial statements Other matters on which we are required to report byexception Our opinion In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements as defined below: Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanationsreceived give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 31December 2013: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our Accepted Accounting Practice: and audit: or have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or Act2006.
returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting What we have audited records and returns.
The Parent Company financial statements, which are prepared by Man Group plc, comprise: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the Parent Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2013: Directors remuneration the Parent Company reconciliation of movement in shareholders funds for the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, year then ended: and certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law have not been made.
the notes to the Parent Company financial statements, which include a We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Other information in the Annual Report The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, comprises applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United information in the Annual Report is: Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Parent Company Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been financial statements: or presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are knowledge of the Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our identified as audited.
audit: or is otherwise misleading.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
UK & Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Responsibilities for the financial statements and assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, theaudit whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Our responsibilities and those of the directors whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities statement set out on page circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: 63, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent Company the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Man Group Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical plc Annual Report the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the Standards for Auditors.
audited Parent Company financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, implications for our report.
accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Act 2006 Other Matter In our opinion: We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Man Group plc The information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the for the year ended 31 December 2013. financial year for which the Parent Company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
Parwinder Purewal Senior Statutory Auditor The part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly for and on behalf of  LLP prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 27 February 2014
