56 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Glossary of Terms and Definitions Return on Net Assets as percentage of shareholders funds.
If the amount Total return on net asset value NAV per share, so calculated is negative, this is shown as a net cash on a bid value to bid value basis, assuming that all position.
dividends paid out by the Company were reinvested Share Price Discount Premium to Net Asset Value NAV into the shares of the Company at the NAV per share per share at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
If the share price of an investment trust is lower than In accordance with industry practice, dividends the NAV per share, the shares are said to be trading payable which have been declared but which are at a discount.
The discount is shown as a percentage unpaid at the balance sheet date are deducted from of the NAV per share.
The opposite of a discount is a the NAV per share when calculating the return on net premium.
It is more common for an investment assets.
trusts shares to trade at a discount than at a premium.
Return to Shareholders Total return to the investor, on a mid-market price to Performance Attribution mid-market price basis, assuming that all dividends Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded received were reinvested, without transaction costs, performance relative to its benchmark.
into the shares of the Company at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Performance Attribution Definitions: Asset Allocation Benchmark Return Measures the impact of allocating assets differently Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market to those in the benchmark, via the portfolios value to mid-market value basis, assuming that all weighting in different countries, sectors or asset dividends received were reinvested, without types.
transaction costs, into the shares of the underlying companies at time the shares were quoted Stock Selection ex-dividend.
Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or lesser extent than their weighting in the The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which benchmark, or of investing in securities which are should not be taken as wholly representative of the not included in the benchmark.
The Companys investment strategy does not track this index and Cash Effect consequently, there may be some divergence Measures the impact on relative performance arising between the Companys performance and that of the from holding cash balances.
Effect of Management Fee Other Expenses Ongoing Charges The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level The Ongoing Charges represent the Companys of total assets, and therefore has a negative effect on management fee and all other operating expenses relative performance.
excluding finance costs payable, expressed as a percentage of the average of the daily net assets Interest Expense during the year and is calculated in accordance with The payment of interest has a negative effect on guidance issued by the Association of Investment relative performance.
The method of calculating the Ongoing Charges Proposed Dividend Use of Prior Year Revenue Reserve 2012: Total Expense Ratio or TER has changed.
The Measures the negative effect on relative performance TER represented the Companys management fee of making dividend distributions in excess of the and all other operating expenses excluding interest, revenue return after taxation for the year.
expressed as a percentage of the average of the month end net assets during the year.
Gearing Effect Measures the impact on relative performance arising Gearing Net Cash from borrowings.
The excess amount above shareholders funds of total asset less cash and cash equivalents, expressed
