The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 53 Notice of Annual General Meeting expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Notice is hereby given that the one Meeting of the Company held in 2014 unless hundred and twenty seventh Annual renewed at a general meeting prior to such time, General Meeting of The Mercantile save that the Company may before such expiry make offers or agreements which would or might Investment Trust plc will be held at require shares to be allotted or Rights to be Trinity House, Tower Hill, London granted after such expiry and so that the EC3N 4DH on 22nd May 2013 at Directors of the Company may allot shares and grant Rights in pursuance of such offers or 12 noon for the following purposes: agreements as if the authority conferred hereby 1.
To receive the Directors Report, the Annual had not expired.
Accounts and the Auditors Report for the year ended 31st January 2013.
Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of relevant securities Special Resolution 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report 11.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 10 set for the year ended 31st January 2013. out above, the Directors of the Company be 3.
To re-elect Hamish Leslie Melville as a Director of and they are hereby empowered pursuant to the Company.
Sections 570 and 573 of the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 4.
To re-elect Sandy Nairn as a Director of the of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority Company.
conferred by Resolution 10 as if Section 561 1 5.
To re-elect Ian Russell as a Director of the of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, Company.
provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities for cash up to an 6.
To re-elect Sir Richard Beckett as a Director of aggregate nominal amount of 1,230,696 the Company.
representing approximately 5% of the issued 7.
To re-elect Helen James as a Director of the share capital as at the date of the passing of this Company.
resolution at a price of not less than the net asset value per share and shall expire upon the 8.
To re-elect Jeremy Tigue as a Director of the expiry of the general authority conferred by Company.
Resolution 10 above, save that the Company may 9.
To reappoint  LLP as before such expiry make offers or agreements auditors to the Company and to authorise the which would or might require equity securities Directors to determine their remuneration.
to be allotted after such expiry and so that the Directors of the Company may allot equity Special Business: securities in pursuant of such offers or To consider the following resolution: agreements as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution 10.
THAT the Directors of the Company be and they Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special are hereby generally and unconditionally Resolution authorised, in substitution of any authorities 12.
THAT the Company be generally and subject as previously granted to the Directors, pursuant to hereinafter appears unconditionally authorised in and in accordance with Section 551 of the accordance with Section 701 of the Act to make Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the market purchases within the meaning of powers of the Company to allot shares in the Section 693 of the Act of its issued shares on Company and to grant rights to subscribe for, or such terms and in such manner as the Directors to convert any security into, shares in the may from time to time determine.
Company rights up to an aggregate nominal PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT amount of 1,230,696, representing i the maximum number of ordinary shares approximately 5% of the Companys issued share hereby authorised to be purchased shall be capital as at the date of the passing of this 14,758,512 or if less, that number of ordinary resolution, provided that this authority shall 54 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes shares which is equal to 14.99% of the These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the Companys issued share capital as at the date reverse of the proxy form.
of the passing of this Resolution: 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint another person s who need not be a member of the ii the minimum price which may be paid for an Company to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak ordinary share shall be 25p: and vote at the Meeting.
A member can appoint more than iii the maximum price which may be paid for an one proxy in relation to the Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attaching to different shares ordinary share or unit shall be an amount held by him.
equal to the highest of: a 105% of the 2.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but average of the middle market quotations for must attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could an ordinary share taken from and calculated be the Chairman, another director of the Company or another by reference to the London Stock Exchange person who has agreed to attend to represent you.
Details of Daily Official List for the five business days how to appoint the Chairman or another person s as your proxy or proxies using the proxy form are set out in the notes immediately preceding the day on which the to the proxy form.
If a voting box on the proxy form is left ordinary share is contracted to be purchased: blank, the proxy or proxies will exercise his their discretion or b the price of the last independent trade: both as to how to vote and whether he they abstain s from or c the highest current independent bid: voting.
Your proxy must attend the Meeting for your vote to count.
Appointing a proxy or proxies does not preclude you iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be made from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
in the market for cash at prices below the 3.
Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be prevailing net asset value per ordinary share lodged in accordance with the instructions given on the proxy as determined by the Directors : form, no later than 12.00 p. m. two business days prior to the Meeting i. e. excluding weekends and bank holidays.
v the authority hereby conferred shall expire 4.
You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new on 21st November 2014 unless the authority proxy appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy is renewed at the Companys Annual General appointments also applies in relation to amended instructions.
Meeting in 2014 or at any other general Any attempt to terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where meeting prior to such time: and two or more valid separate appointments of proxy are vi the Company may make a contract to received in respect of the same share in respect of the same purchase ordinary shares under the authority Meeting, the one which is last received regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be treated as replacing and hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such revoking the other or others as regards that share: if the authority which contract will or may be Company is unable to determine which was last received, none executed wholly or partly after the expiry of of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that share.
such authority and may make a purchase of 5.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the ordinary shares pursuant to any such purpose of the determination by the Company of the number contract.
of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two business days prior to the Meeting the specified time.
If the Meeting Approval of dividend policy Ordinary Resolution is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the 13.
THAT the shareholders approve the Companys specified time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will dividend policy to continue to pay four quarterly also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of interim dividends, which in the year under review members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the have totalled 36 pence per share.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be By order of the Board entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, two business days prior to the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company Secretary Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
Changes to entries on the register 28th March 2013 after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Entry to the Meeting will be restricted to shareholders and their proxy or proxies, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint an individual s to act as its representative s and to vote in The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 55 person at the Meeting see instructions given on the proxy proxy for the Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act If a Nominated Person does not have such a right or does not 2006, each such representative s may exercise on behalf of wish to exercise it, he may have a right under such an the corporation the same powers as the corporation could agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise if it were an individual member of the Company, exercise of voting rights.
provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a designated the contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total corporate representative.
Representatives should bring to the number of shares in respect of which members are entitled to meeting evidence of their appointment, including any authority exercise voting rights at the AGM, the total voting rights under which it is signed.
members are entitled to exercise at the AGM and, if applicable, 8.
Members that satisfy the thresholds in Section 527 of the any members statements, members resolutions or members Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a matters of business received by the Company after the date of statement on its website setting out any matter relating to: this notice will be available on the Companys website a the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors www.
report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before 13.
The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons the AGM: or b any circumstances connected with an Auditor in the share capital of the Company and the Directors letters of of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous AGM: appointment are available for inspection at the Companys which the members propose to raise at the meeting.
The registered office during usual business hours on any weekday Company cannot require the members requesting the Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted.
It will also publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
No website must also be sent to the Companys Auditors no later Director has any contract of service with the Company.
than the time it makes its statement available on the website.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any of meeting to communicate with the Company for any statement that the Company has been required to publish on purposes other than those expressly stated.
its website pursuant to this right.
As an alternative to completing a hard copy Form of Proxy 9.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Voting Instruction Form, you can appoint a proxy or proxies Company must cause to be answered at the AGM any question electronically by visiting www.
You will need relating to the business being dealt with at the AGM which is your Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number put by a member attending the meeting except in certain this is the series of numbers printed under your name on the circumstances, including if it is undesirable in the interests of Form of Proxy Voting Instruction Form.
Alternatively, if you the Company or the good order of the meeting or if it would have already registered with Equiniti Limiteds online portfolio involve the disclosure of confidential information.
service, Shareview, you can submit your Form of Proxy at 10.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the 2006 Act, members www.
Full instructions are given on both meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have the websites.
right to require the Company: i to give, to members of the 16.
As at 20th March 2013 being the latest business day prior to Company entitled to receive notice of the Meeting, notice of a the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share resolution which those members intend to move and which capital consists of 98,455,719 Ordinary shares, carrying one may properly be moved at the Meeting: and or ii to include vote each.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company in the business to be dealt with at the Meeting any matter are 98,455,719. other than a proposed resolution which may properly be included in the business at the Meeting.
A resolution may Electronic appointment CREST members properly be moved, or a matter properly included in the CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by business unless: a in the case of a resolution only it would, if utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do passed, be ineffective whether by reason of any inconsistency so for the Meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the with any enactment or the Companys constitution or procedures described in the CREST Manual.
See further otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is instructions on the proxy form.
A request made pursuant to this right may be in hard copy or electronic form, must identify the Warning to shareholders Boiler Room Scams resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must be accompanied by a statement In recent years, many companies have become aware that their setting out the grounds for the request, must be authenticated shareholders have been targeted by unauthorised overseas-based by the person s making it and must be received by the brokers selling what turn out to be non-existent or high risk Company not later than the date that is six clear weeks before shares, or expressing a wish to buy their shares.
If you receive the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the unsolicited investment advice or requests: business only must be accompanied by a statement setting Make sure you get the correct name of the person or out the grounds for the request.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before persons who have been nominated by a member to enjoy getting involved, by visiting www.
uk pages register information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy can Report the matter to the FSA by calling 0845 606 1234 not be exercised by a Nominated Person: they can only be If the calls persist, hang up.
However, a Nominated Person may More detailed information on this can be found on the Money have a right under an agreement between him and the Advice Service website www.
uk member by whom he was nominated to be appointed as a
