30 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Under applicable law and regulations the Directors annual report and the accounts in accordance with are also responsible for preparing a Directors applicable law and regulations.
Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Statement of Corporate Governance that comply with Company law requires the Directors to prepare that law and those regulations.
financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have elected to prepare the Each of the Directors, whose names and functions financial statements in accordance with United are listed in the Directors Report confirms that, to Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice the best of his her knowledge: United Kingdom Accounting Standards and the financial statements, which have been applicable law.
Under Company law the Directors prepared in accordance with United Kingdom must not approve the financial statements unless Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable of the state of affairs of the Company and of the law, give a true and fair view of the assets, profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In liabilities, financial position and net return or loss preparing these financial statements, the Directors of the Company: and are required to: the Directors Report includes a fair review of the select suitable accounting policies and then apply development and performance of the business them consistently: and the position of the Company, together with a make judgements and estimates that are description of the principal risks and uncertainties reasonable and prudent: and that it faces.
state whether applicable UK Accounting The financial statements are published on the Standards have been followed, subject to any www.
co. uk website, which is managed by material departures disclosed and explained in the Manager.
The Directors are responsible for the the financial statements.
maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate preparation and dissemination of financial accounting records that are sufficient to show and statements may differ from legislation in other explain the Companys transactions and disclose with jurisdictions.
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the For and on behalf of the Board Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for Hamish Leslie Melville safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence Chairman for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
