The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 January 2013 Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the annual general meeting of The ii the authority shall allow and enable the directors to make an Merchants Trust PLC will be held at Holborn Bars, 138-142 offer or agreement before the expiry of that authority which Holborn, London EC1N 2NQ on Friday 10 May 2013 at 12 noon to would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after transact the following business.
such expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if that authority had not expired.
Ordinary Business 1 To receive and adopt the Directors Report and the Financial 12 That the directors be empowered in accordance with section Statements for the year ended 31 January 2013 together with 570 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to allot equity the Auditors Report thereon.
securities within the meaning of section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 11 as if 2 To declare a final dividend of 5.8p per ordinary share.
sub-section 1 of section 561 of the Act did not apply to any 3 To re-elect Simon Fraser as a director.
such allotment provided that: 4 To re-elect Mike McKeon as a director.
i the power granted shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities wholly for cash up to a maximum number of 5 To re-elect Henry Staunton as a director.
10,321,346 ordinary shares: 6 To re-elect Paul Yates as a director.
ii the power granted shall unless previously revoked or 7 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report.
renewed expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the company after this resolution is passed, or 10 8 To re-appoint  LLP as Auditor of August 2014 if earlier: and the company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which financial statements are laid before iii the said power shall allow and enable the directors to make the company.
an offer or agreement before the expiry of that power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after 9 To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in the Auditor.
pursuance of such offer or agreement as if that power had not expired.
Special Business 13 That the company be and is hereby generally and To consider and if thought fit to pass the following resolutions.
unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 701 of Resolutions 10 and 11 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases and resolutions 12, 13 and 14 as special resolutions: within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act of ordinary 10 That the limit on aggregate fees payable to the directors be shares of 25p each in the capital of the company ordinary increased from 150,000 to 200,000. shares, provided that: 11 That for the purposes of section 551 of the Companies i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised Act 2006 the directors be generally and unconditionally to be purchased shall be 15,471,698: authorised to exercise all the powers of the company to allot ii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share relevant securities within the meaning of the said section is 25p: up to a maximum number of 34,404,488 ordinary shares provided that: iii the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middlei the authority granted shall expire one year from the date market quotations for an ordinary share taken from the upon which this resolution is passed but may be revoked London Stock Exchange Official List for the five business days or varied by the company in general meeting and may be immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share renewed by the company in general meeting for a further is purchased or such other amount as may be specified by the period not exceeding one year: and London Stock Exchange from time to time: 70 Notice of Meeting continued iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion 5.
Duly completed forms of proxy must reach the office of the of the annual general meeting of the company in 2014 or, if registrars at least 48 hours excluding non-business days earlier, on the expiry of 15 months from the passing of this before the meeting.
resolution, unless such authority is renewed prior to such 6.
Shares held in uncertificated form i. e. in CREST may be time: and voted through the CREST Proxy Voting Service in accordance v the company may make a contract to purchase ordinary with the procedures set out in the CREST manual on the shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the Euroclear website www.
expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly 7.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and for the or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make purpose of determination by the company of the number a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract.
of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the 14 That the Articles of Association set out in the document companys Register of Members by close of business on produced to this meeting and signed by the Chairman of Wednesday 8 May 2013 the record date.
the meeting for the purposes of identification be and are 8.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours hereby approved and adopted as the Articles of Association after the record date applicable to the original meeting, of the company in substitution for and to the exclusion of the that time will also apply for the purpose of determining existing Articles of Association of the company.
the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may 155 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 3AD cast at the adjourned meeting.
If, however, the meeting 27 March 2013 is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, By order of the Board members must be entered on the companys Register of Kirsten Salt Members at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed Company Secretary for the adjourned meeting or, if the company gives new notice of the adjourned meeting, at the record date specified in that notice.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose 1.
Members entitled to attend and vote at this meeting may shares are held on their behalf by another person and who appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote in their has been nominated to receive communications from the stead by completion of a personalised form of proxy.
Full company in accordance with section 146 of the Companies details on how to complete the form of proxy are set out on Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have the form of proxy.
The proxy need not be a member of the a right under an agreement with the registered shareholder company.
who holds the shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
A proxy must vote in accordance with any instructions given nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish by the member by whom the proxy is appointed.
A proxy has to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement one vote on a show of hands in all cases including where one to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the member has appointed multiple proxies, except where he is exercise of voting rights.
Nominated persons should contact appointed by multiple members who instruct him to vote in the registered member by whom they were nominated in different ways, in which case he only has one vote for and one respect of these arrangements.
Corporate representatives are entitled to attend and vote on 3.
A personalised form of proxy is provided with the Annual behalf of the corporate member in accordance with section Financial Report.
Any replacement forms must be requested 323 of the Companies Act 2006.
Pursuant to the Companies direct from the registrar.
Completion of the form of proxy does not exclude a member multiple corporate representatives appointed by the same from attending the meeting and voting in person.
corporate member can vote in different ways provided they are voting in respect of different shares.
71 Hatton Garden Chancery Lane Holborn The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 January 2013 Notice of Meeting continued 11.
Members have a right under section 319A of the Companies 13.
As at 27 March 2013, the latest practicable date before Act 2006 to require the company to answer any question this notice is given, the total number of ordinary shares raised by a member at the AGM, which relates to the and preference stock in the company in respect of which business being dealt with at the meeting, although no members are entitled to exercise voting rights was answer need be given a if to do so would interfere unduly 103,213,464 ordinary shares of 25p each and 1,178,000 3.65% with the preparation of the meeting or involve disclosure of Cumulative Preference Stock of 1 each.
Each carries the right confidential information: b if the answer has already been to one vote and therefore, the total number of voting rights in given on the companys website: or c it is undesirable in the company is 104,391,464. the best interests of the company or the good order of the 14.
Further information regarding the meeting which the meeting.
company is required by section 311A of the Companies 12.
Members satisfying the thresholds in section 527 of the Act 2006 to publish on a website in advance of the Companies Act 2006 can require the company, at its expense, meeting including this notice, can be accessed at www.
to publish a statement on the company website setting merchantstrust.
out any matter which relates to the audit of the companys 15.
Contracts of service are not entered into with the directors, accounts that are to be laid before the meeting.
Any such who hold office in accordance with the Articles of Association.
statement must also be sent to the companys auditor no later than the time it is made available on the website and must be included in the business of the meeting.
Annual General Meeting venue Holborn Bars Chancery Lane Holborn 72 High Holborn Clerkenwell Rd Theobalds Rd 73 The Merchants Trust PLC 155 Bishopsgate London EC2M 3AD T: 44 0 20 7859 9000 F: 44 0 20 7859 3507 www.
