Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Financial The financial statements are published on www.
Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial co. uk, which is a website maintained by the companys statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
investment manager, RCM UK Limited.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys Company law requires the directors to prepare financial website.
The work undertaken by the auditor does not involve statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors consideration of the maintenance and integrity of the website have prepared the financial statements in accordance with and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United changes that have occurred to the financial statements since Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Company they were initially presented on the website.
Visitors to the law also requires that the directors must not approve the financial website need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair governing the preparation and dissemination of financial view of the state of affairs of the company and of the net return statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
of the company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: Statement under DTR 4.1.
12 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them The directors at the date of approval of this report, each confirm to consistently: the best of their knowledge that: make judgements and accounting estimates that are the financial statements, which have been prepared in reasonable and prudent: accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and liabilities, financial position and net return of the company: and explained in the financial statements.
the Annual Financial Report includes a fair review of the The directors confirm that they have complied with the above development and performance of the company and the requirements in preparing the financial statements.
position of the company, together with a description of the The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration For and on behalf of the board Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also Simon Fraser responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence Chairman for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of 27 March 2013 fraud and other irregularities.
