The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 January 2013 Statement of Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 January 1 The financial statements The financial statements have Deposit interest receivable is accounted for on an accruals been prepared under the historical cost basis, except for the basis.
Commissions in respect of underwriting are recognised measurement at fair value of investments and derivative when the underwritten issue closes and are generally financial instruments, and in accordance with applicable recognised within the Income Statement as revenue.
Where, accounting standards, the United Kingdom Law and United however, the company is required to take up a proportion Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK of the shares underwritten, the same proportion of the GAAP and the Statement of Recommended Practice - commission received is recognised as capital, with the Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and balance recognised as revenue.
Venture Capital Trusts SORP issued in January 2009 by the Association of Investment Companies AIC.
3 Investment management fees and administration expenses The investment management fee is calculated on the basis In order to better reflect the activities of an investment trust set out in note 2 to the financial statements and is charged company and in accordance with guidance issued by the to capital and revenue in the ratio 65:35 to reflect the boards AIC, supplementary information which analyses the Income investment policy and prospective split of capital and income Statement between items of a revenue and capital nature has returns.
The split is reviewed annually.
Other administration been presented alongside the Income Statement.
expenses are charged in full to revenue, except custodian The accounting policies adopted in preparing the current handling charges on investment transactions which are years financial statements are consistent with those of charged to capital.
All expenses are recognised on an accrual previous years.
The directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to 4 Valuation As the companys business is investing in adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial financial assets with a view to profiting from their total statements as the assets of the company consist mainly of return in the form of increases in fair value, financial assets securities which are readily realisable and significantly exceed are designated as held at fair value through profit or loss in liabilities.
Accordingly, the directors believe that the company accordance with FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Recognition has adequate financial resources to continue in operational and Measurement.
The company manages and evaluates existence for the foreseeable future.
The companys business, the performance of these investments on a fair value basis the principal risks and uncertainties it faces, together with the in accordance with its investment strategy, and information factors likely to affect its future development, performance about the investments is provided on this basis to the board of and position are set out in the Directors Report, Business directors.
Review section on pages 25 to 32.
Investments held at fair value through profit or loss are 2 Revenue Franked, unfranked and overseas dividends initially recognised at fair value.
After initial recognition, these received on equity shares are accounted for on an excontinue to be measured at fair value, which for quoted dividend basis.
UK dividends are shown net of tax credits.
investments is either the bid price or the last traded price depending on the convention of the exchange on which Special dividends are recognised on an ex-dividend basis and the investment is listed.
Gains or losses on investments are treated as a capital or revenue item depending on the facts recognised in the capital column of the Income Statement.
and circumstances of each dividend.
The board review special Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the dividends and their treatment at each meeting.
trade date, being the date which the company commits to Where the company has elected to receive its dividends in the purchase or sell the assets.
form of additional shares rather than in cash, the equivalent After initial recognition unquoted stocks are valued by the of the cash dividend is recognised as income.
Any excess in board on an annual basis.
the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend is recognised in capital reserves.
46 Statement of Accounting Policies continued for the year ended 31 January 5 Derivatives Options may be purchased or written over A deferred tax asset is recognised when it is more likely securities held in the portfolio for generating or protecting than not that the asset will be recoverable.
Deferred tax capital returns, or for generating or maintaining revenue is measured on a non-discounted basis at the rate of returns.
Where the purpose of the option is the maintenance corporation tax that is expected to apply when the timing of capital the premium is treated as a capital item.
The value differences are expected to reverse.
of the option is subsequently marked to market to reflect the fair value of the option based on traded prices.
When an 8 Foreign currency In accordance with FRS 23 The Effect of option is closed out or exercised the gain or loss is accounted changes in Foreign Currency Exchanges Rates, the company for as capital.
is required to nominate a functional currency, being the currency in which the company predominately operates.
Where the purpose of the option is the generation of income, The functional and reporting currency is sterling, reflecting the premium is treated as a revenue item.
The value of the primary economic environment in which the company the option is subsequently marked to market to reflect the operates.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated fair value of the option based on traded prices.
Premiums into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the date of the received on written options are amortised to revenue over the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities period to expiry.
If an option is exercised early unamortised are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling premiums are taken to capital.
at the balance sheet date.
Profits and losses thereon are recognised in the capital column of the income statement 6 Finance costs In accordance with the FRS 25 Financial and taken to the capital reserve.
Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, long 9 Dividends In accordance with FRS 21 Events After term borrowings are stated at the amortised cost being the the Balance Sheet Date, the final dividend proposed on amount of net proceeds on issue plus accrued finance costs ordinary shares is recognised as a liability when approved by to date.
Finance costs are calculated over the term of the debt shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised only when on the effective interest rate basis.
Where debt is issued at a premium, the premium is amortised over the term of the debt on the effective interest rate basis.
10 Shares repurchased and subsequently cancelled Share capital is reduced by the nominal value of the shares Finance costs net of amortised premiums are charged to repurchased, and the capital redemption reserve is capital and revenue in the ratio 65:35 to reflect the boards correspondingly increased in accordance with section 733 investment policy and prospective split of capital and revenue Companies Act 2006.
The full cost of the repurchase is returns.
charged to the capital reserve within gains losses on sales of Dividends payable on the 3.65% cumulative preference stock investments.
are classified as an interest expense and are charged in full to revenue.
11 Shares issued Share capital is increased by the nominal value of shares issued.
The proceeds in excess of the nominal 7 Taxation Where expenses are allocated between capital and value of shares net of expenses are allocated to the share revenue, any tax relief obtained in respect of those expenses premium account.
is allocated between capital and revenue on the marginal basis using the companys effective rate of corporation tax for the accounting period.
Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred.
Timing differences are differences between the companys taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements.
