The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 January 2013 Investor Information The companys ordinary The Manager Market and Portfolio Information shares are listed on the Allianz Global Investors is the marketing name The companys ordinary shares are listed on London Stock Exchange.
of RCM UK Limited, which is authorised and the London Stock Exchange.
The market price, The market price range, gross yield and net asset regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
price range, gross yield and net asset value are value are shown daily in Allianz Global Investors are active asset managers shown daily in The Financial Times and The Daily the Financial Times operating across nineteen markets with Telegraph.
The net asset value of the ordinary and The Daily Telegraph specialised in-house research teams around the shares is calculated daily and published through under the headings Investment Companies globe, managing assets for individuals, families the London Stock Exchange Regulatory News and Investment Trusts, and institutions worldwide.
The geographical spread of investments respectively.
2012, Allianz Global Investors had 304 billion of and ten largest holdings are also published monthly assets under management worldwide.
Through by the London Stock Exchange Regulatory News its predecessors, Allianz Global Investors has Service.
They are also available from the managers a heritage of investment trust management Investors Helpline on 0800 389 4696 or via the expertise in the UK reaching back to the nineteenth managers website: www.
century and it had 0.98 billion assets under management in a range of investment trusts as at Share Price 31 December 2012.
The share price for 31 January 2013 was 412.7p.
co. uk Website Further information about the The Merchants Registered Number Trust PLC, including monthly fact sheets, daily 28276 share prices and performance, is available on the managers website: www.
co. uk Financial Calendar invtrusts, which can also be reached via www.
Full year results announced and Annual Financial Report posted to shareholders in April.
How to invest Alliance Trust Savings Limited ATS is one of a Annual General Meeting held in May.
number of providers offering a range of products Interim Management Statements announced and services, including Share Plans, ISAs and in May and November.
ATS also maintains services including online and telephone-based dealing Half-yearly Financial Report posted to shareholders facilities and online valuations.
is available from Allianz Global Investors either via Investor Services on 0800 389 4696 or on the Ordinary Dividends managers website: www.
co. uk invtrusts, It is anticipated that dividends will be paid as or from Alliance Trust Savings Customer Services follows: Department on 01382 573737 or by e-mail: 1st Quarterly August contact@alliancetrust.
2nd Quarterly November A list of other providers can be found on the Allianz Global Investors investment trusts website: www.
Final May Preference Dividends Payable half-yearly 1 February and 1 August.
66 Investor Information continued Capita Registrars offer Payment of Dividends Direct to Bank The Share Portal shareholders a free Accounts The Capita Registrars offer shareholders a free online service called The on-line service called The Share Portal, enabling Share Portal, enabling Cash dividends will be sent by cheque to firstshareholders to access shareholders to access a comprehensive range named shareholders at their registered address a comprehensive range of shareholder related information.
Through The together with a tax voucher.
Dividends may be paid of shareholder related Share Portal, shareholders can: view their current directly into shareholders bank accounts.
and historical shareholding details: obtain an of how this may be arranged can be obtained from indicative share price and valuation: register for Capita Registrars.
Dividends mandated in this way e-comms, amend address details: view details of are paid via Bankers Automated Clearing Service dividend payments: and apply for dividends to be BACS.
Tax vouchers will then be sent directly to paid directly to a bank or change existing bank shareholders at their registered address unless details.
other instructions have been given.
Shareholders can access these services at www.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP for capitashareportal.
com and selecting Share Portal Ordinary Shareholders shareholders from the drop down menu, or alternatively via the Portals: Quick Links, and The registrars offer a DRIP which gives ordinary selecting Share Portal.
Shareholders will need to shareholders the opportunity to use their cash register for a Share Portal Account by completing dividend to buy further shares in the company an on-screen registration form.
An email address is under a low-cost dealing arrangement.
Conditions and a personalised application form are enclosed with each dividend payment.
Registrars and Shareholders Enquiries Share Dealing Services Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU are the companys Capita Registrars operate both on-line and registrars and maintain the share register.
In the telephone dealing facilities for UK resident event of queries regarding their holdings of shares, shareholders with share certificates.
Stamp duty lost certificates, dividend cheques, registered and commission may be payable on purchases.
shareholders should contact the For further information on these services please registrars on 0871 664 0300 or 44 20 8639 3399 contact: www.
com for on-line dealing if calling from overseas.
Lines are open 8.30 a. m. or 0871 664 0384 for telephone dealing.
Lines to 5.30 p. m. London time Monday to Friday.
are open 8.00 a. m. to 4.30 p. m. Monday to Friday.
Calls to the 0871 664 0300 number are charged Calls to the 0871 664 0384 number are charged at 10 pence per minute plus any of your service at 10 pence per minute plus any of your service providers network extras.
Calls to the helpline providers network extras.
Different charges may number from outside the UK are charged at apply to calls made from mobile telephones and applicable international rates.
Different charges calls may be recorded and monitored randomly for may apply to calls made from mobile telephones security and training purposes.
and calls may be recorded and monitored randomly for security and training purposes.
Capita Registrars can also be contacted by email: ssd.
67 The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 January 2013 Investor Information continued General enquiries about Changes of name and address must be notified to To use this service you will need to register online the company should be the registrars in writing.
com international or by directed to the Company contacting Capita Registrars as detailed below.
Secretary, The Merchants Any general enquiries about the company should Trust PLC, 155 Bishopsgate, be directed to the Company Secretary, The For further information on this service please London, EC2M 3AD.
Merchants Trust PLC, 155 Bishopsgate, London, contact: 44 20 8639 3405 from outside of the EC2M 3AD.
UK or 0871 664 0385 in the UK Calls cost 10p Email: kirsten.
co. uk per minute plus network extras.
m. Monday to Friday or email IPS@capitaregistrars.
International Payment Service Capita Registrars, the companys registrars, operate CREST Proxy Voting an international payment service for shareholders, whereby they can elect either for their dividend Shares held in uncertificated form i. e. in CREST to be paid by foreign currency draft or they can may be voted through the CREST Proxy Voting request an international bank mandate.
This service Service in accordance with the procedures set out is only available for dividend payments of 10 or in the CREST manual.
Association of Investment Companies The international payment service will generally AIC cost less than the fees charged by local banks to The company is a member of the AIC, the trade convert shareholders sterling dividends into local body of the investment trust industry, which currency.
A 5 administration fee per dividend payment applies.
Dividends are paid as cleared provides a range of literature including fact sheets funds directly into shareholders bank accounts or and a monthly statistical service.
Copies of these publications can be obtained from the AIC, 9th sent as a draft.
Floor, 24 Chiswell Street, London EC1Y 4YY, or at Capita Registrars, working in partnership with www.
Travelex, will arrange for your dividend to be exchanged into your local currency at competitive AIC Category: UK Growth and Income.
rates based on actual market rates.
68 Investor Information continued Warning to Shareholders We are aware that some shareholders may have received unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based organisations who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be extremely persistent and extremely persuasive.
Shareholders are therefore advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice or offers.
Please note that it is most unlikely that either the company or the companys Registrar, Capita Registrars, would make unsolicited telephone calls to shareholders.
Any such calls would only ever relate to official documentation already circulated to shareholders and never in respect of investment advice.
If you are in any doubt about the veracity of an unsolicited telephone call, please call either the Company Secretary or the Registrar on the numbers provided above.
