Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 1 General information Cable & Wireless Communications Plc the Company or the Parent Company and its subsidiaries together Cable & Wireless Communications Group or the Group is an international telecommunications company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
Following the agreement to dispose of interests in Macau and the sale of its Islands businesses, the Group operates through three business units being the Caribbean, Panama and Monaco.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union EU as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2013.
These consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars US$ and rounded to the nearest million.
They have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments held at fair value.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The Directors have prepared the accounts on a going concern basis see page 46 of the Directors and corporate governance report for further detail.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
These estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are considered to be reasonable under the circumstances.
They form the basis of judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on a continuing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the year in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
Critical judgements and areas where the use of estimates is significant are discussed in note 3.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently by Group entities.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries and include the Groups share of the results and net assets of its joint ventures and associates.
The results of the Groups main trading subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates have been prepared to align with the Groups reporting date.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by and forming part of the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, the existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable are considered.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group effectively takes control until the date that control ceases.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are aligned with the policies adopted by the Group to ensure consistency.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are entities over which the Group exercises joint control.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised through profit or loss.
Its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in equity.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture and or associate exceeds its investment including any other unsecured long-term receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the investee.
Annual report 2012 13 77 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 2.2 Application of recently issued International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The Group considered the implications of the following amendments to IFRS during the year ended 31 March 2013: Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Amendment to IFRS 1 First Time Adoption Amendment to IAS 12 Income Taxes The above were first effective for the Group in the year beginning 1 April 2012 and have been adopted by the Group for 2012 13.
They did not have a material impact on the Group.
New and amended standards and interpretations endorsed by the EU, adopted by the Group for 2013 14: Title Effective date Description and impact on the Group Amendment to IAS 19 Annual periods beginning on or after 1 January There will be an impact on the Group results due to the Employee benefits 2013 change in calculating the income statement charge.
Interest cost and expected return on plan assets will be replaced with a net amount calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability.
Had the Group applied the new standard from 1 April 2012, Group profit before tax from continuing operations would have been US$8 million lower.
There are no other new or amended standards that are considered to have a material impact on the Group.
New and amended standards and interpretations, not yet effective and not adopted by the Group: Title Effective date Description and impact on the Group IFRS 9 Financial instruments Annual periods beginning on or after 1 January IFRS 9 replaces parts of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: 2015, however the standard has yet to be Recognition and Measurement that relate to the endorsed by the EU which is likely to delay classification and measurement of financial instruments.
implementation There will be an impact on the Group results due to revised classification categories although further changes to the standard are likely.
The Group will consider the effect of the revised standard once it has been endorsed by the EU.
In addition, a number of new standards have been released but are not yet effective.
The Group is currently considering the effect of these revised standards but they are not expected to have a material impact.
2.3 Foreign currencies a Functional currency Amounts included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
b Foreign currency translation Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised through profit or loss.
c Foreign operations The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the Groups presentation currency of US dollars are translated as follows: i Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the reporting date: ii Income and expenses are translated at rates closely approximating the rate at the date of the transactions: and iii Resulting exchange differences are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve.
78 Cable & Wireless Communications Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
On disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the same period in which the gain or loss on disposal is recognised.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities are taken to shareholders equity.
Where investments are matched in whole or in part by foreign currency loans, the exchange differences arising on the retranslation of such loans are also recorded as movements in the Groups translation reserves and any excess taken to profit or loss.
There are no Group entities operating in a hyperinflationary economy.
The principal exchange rates used in the preparation of these accounts are as follows: 2012 13 2011 12 : US$ Average 0.6330 0.6260 Year end 0.6562 0.6263 : US$ Average 0.7786 0.7225 Year end 0.7694 0.7506 2.4 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
The cost of property, plant and equipment includes labour and overhead costs arising directly from the construction or acquisition of an item of property, plant and equipment.
Plant and equipment represents the Groups network infrastructure assets.
The estimated costs of dismantling and removing assets, typically cell sites and network equipment, and restoring land on which they are located are included in the cost of property, plant and equipment.
The corresponding obligation is recognised as a provision in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that the future economic benefits will flow to the Group and the cost can be measured reliably.
All other subsequent costs primarily repairs and maintenance are charged to profit or loss as incurred.
Depreciation is not recognised on freehold land or assets under construction.
Depreciation is provided to write-off the cost of property, plant and equipment, on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: Lives Cables up to 20 years Network equipment 3 to 25 years Ducting 40 years Freehold buildings 40 years Leasehold buildings up to 40 years or term of lease if less Asset useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each reporting date.
An assets carrying amount is written down to its recoverable amount if the carrying amount is greater than its recoverable amount through sale or use.
2.5 Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill represents the future economic benefits that arise from acquired assets that are not capable of being individually identified and separately recognised.
The goodwill recorded in the Groups statement of financial position is calculated using two different methods, depending on the acquisition date, as a result of changes in accounting standards.
All business combinations that occurred since 31 March 2010 are accounted for using the acquisition method in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations Revised.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired.
All transaction costs are expensed as incurred.
All other business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2004.
Costs attributable to these combinations are included in the cost of acquisition.
Annual report 2012 13 79 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 2.5 Intangible assets continued Goodwill is not amortised and is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
b Other intangible assets Costs that are directly associated with the purchase and implementation of identifiable and unique software products by the Group are recognised as intangible assets.
Expenditures that enhance and extend the benefits of computer software programs beyond their original specifications and lives are recognised as a capital improvement and added to the original cost of the software.
Intangible assets relating to customer contracts, customer relationships and licences obtained as part of the Groups business combinations are recorded initially at their fair values.
Other intangible assets that do not have indefinite useful lives are amortised on a straight line basis over their respective lives which are usually based on contractual terms.
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less amortisation.
Lives Software 3 to 5 years Licences 25 years or less if the licence term is shorter Customer contracts and relationships 4 to 10 years 2.6 Financial instruments Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: cash and cash equivalents: trade and other receivables: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: available-for-sale financial assets: and held-to-maturity investments.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the assets are held.
The Group does not currently classify any assets as held-to-maturity investments.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date for financial assets other than those held at fair value through profit or loss.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and at bank, short-term deposits, money market funds and government securities.
They are highly liquid monetary investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position is considered to approximate fair value.
Bank overdrafts are included within borrowings and classified in current liabilities on the statement of financial position.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a third party with no intention of trading the receivable.
Trade and other receivables are presented in current assets in the statement of financial position, except for those with maturities greater than one year after the reporting date.
Receivables are recognised initially at the value of the invoice sent to the customer and subsequently at the amounts considered recoverable amortised cost.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets that are either held for trading or those designated upon initial recognition.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated by management.
These financial assets are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent changes in fair value are recognised through profit or loss.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value at each reporting date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Gains and losses on derivative instruments that are not designated as hedge instruments are recognised immediately through profit or loss.
80 Cable & Wireless Communications Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category upon initial recognition or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within one year of the reporting date and such assets recognised in this category by the Group include UK and Bahamian Government gilts.
Purchases and disposals of available-for-sale financial assets are recognised at fair value.
Subsequent changes in fair value, other than impairment losses and foreign currency differences, are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the fair value reserve within Capital and Other reserves in equity.
When an asset is derecognised the gain or loss accumulated in equity is reclassified through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities The Group classifies its financial liabilities into the following categories: trade and other payables: borrowings: and financial liabilities at fair value.
Management determines the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date for financial liabilities other than those held at fair value.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred and are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds received net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised through profit or loss over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
The financial liabilities recognised in this category include secured and unsecured bonds and facilities and other loans held by the Group and are presented in borrowings in current liabilities in the statement of financial position unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least one year after the reporting date.
Financial liabilities at fair value This category includes a puttable instrument on non-controlling interests relating to the acquisition of Monaco Telecom the Monaco Telecom put option, together with derivative financial instruments.
These financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent changes in fair value are recognised through profit or loss except for changes in the fair value of the Monaco Telecom put option.
The fair value of the Monaco Telecom put option is based on the present value of the redemption amount, calculated using discounted cash flow techniques, as if the puttable instrument had been exercised at the reporting date.
Movements in the fair value of the liability are recognised as adjustments to goodwill in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2004, with the unwind of the discount on the fair value calculation being recognised through profit or loss in finance expenses.
2.7 Impairment of assets Financial assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset not carried at fair value through profit or loss or a group of those financial assets is impaired.
An impairment allowance is established for trade receivables when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Non-financial assets Assets that have indefinite useful lives are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
All other non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cashgenerating units.
The Group determines any impairment by comparing the carrying values of each of the Groups assets or the cash-generating unit to which it belongs to their recoverable amounts, which is the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Fair value represents market value in an active market.
Value in use is determined by discounting future cash flows arising from the asset.
Future cash flows are determined with reference to the Groups own projections using pre-tax discount rates.
Impairment reviews involve management making assumptions and estimates, which are highly judgemental and susceptible to change.
2.8 Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is the price paid less any rebates, trade discounts or subsidies.
It also includes delivery charges and import duties, but does not include value added taxes or advertising and administration costs.
Cost is based on the first-in, first-out FIFO principle.
For inventories held for resale, net realisable value is determined as the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less costs to sell.
Provision is made for obsolete and slow-moving inventories as required.
Annual report 2012 13 81 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 2.9 Share capital Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares, stand-alone options or the repurchase of shares are recognised in equity.
2.10 Leases All Group leases are operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases, net of lease incentives or premiums received, are charged through profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
2.11 Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale When the value of non-current assets is expected to be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing usage, they are available for immediate sale in their present condition and a sale is highly probable, they are classified as assets held for sale.
With the exception of deferred tax assets, assets arising from employee benefits and financial instruments, the assets held for sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Disposal groups are groups of assets and liabilities to be disposed of together as a group in a single transaction.
They are recognised as held for sale at the reporting date and are separately disclosed as current assets and liabilities on the statement of financial position.
Any amortisation and depreciation ceases when classified as held for sale.
Measurement differences arising between the carrying amount and fair value less cost of disposal are treated as impairment charges and separately disclosed.
The Islands sub-group and the Macau segment have been classified at year end as disposal groups held for sale.
2.12 Discontinued operations A discontinued operation is a component of the Group where the operations and cash flows are clearly distinguished from the rest of the Group and which: Represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations: Is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations: or Is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
Classification as a discontinued operation occurs on disposal or when the operation meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
When an operation is classified as a discontinued operation, the comparative income statement and cash flow statement are re-presented as if the operation had been discontinued from the start of the comparative year.
The Islands sub-group and the Macau segment have been classified as discontinued operations.
2.13 Employee benefits Defined contribution pensions A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions to a third party.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as operating costs as they are incurred through profit or loss.
Defined benefit obligations A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
These schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or Trustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The asset or liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of each defined benefit pension plan represents the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the reporting date.
Assets are only recognised to the extent that the present value of the economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan exceed the fair value of the plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations.
Defined benefit obligations for each scheme are calculated annually by independent actuaries.
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses, arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions, in the period in which they occur in the statement of comprehensive income.
Past service costs are recognised immediately through profit or loss unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employee remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In these cases, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Current service costs and any past service costs, together with the unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities less the expected return on plan assets, are included within operating costs through profit or loss.
82 Cable & Wireless Communications Share-based compensation The Group operates various equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of options over shares in the Company is recognised as an operating cost through profit or loss over the vesting period.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, which excludes the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example service, profitability and cash flow targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in estimates about the number of options that are expected to vest.
At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group recognises termination benefits within other provisions when it is demonstrably committed to the action leading to the employees termination.
Bonus plans The Group recognises a liability in the statement of financial position in relation to bonuses payable to employees where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
2.14 Tax Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised through profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income and equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income or equity, respectively.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements, except where the difference arises from: The initial recognition of goodwill: or The initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination, affecting neither accounting nor taxable profit.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the temporary differences reverse, based on rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
2.15 Provisions Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount.
They are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are presented in the statement of financial position at the present value of the estimated future outflows expected to be required to settle the obligation.
Provision charges and reversals are recognised through profit or loss.
Discount unwinding is recognised as a finance expense.
2.16 Revenue recognition Group revenue, which excludes discounts, value added tax and similar sales taxes, represents the amount receivable in respect of services and goods provided to customers.
It includes sales to joint ventures and associates but does not include sales by joint ventures and associates or sales between Group companies.
Revenue is recognised only when payment is probable.
Revenue from services is recognised as the services are provided.
In respect of services invoiced in advance, amounts are deferred until provision of the service.
Amounts payable by and to other telecommunications operators are recognised as the services are provided.
Charges are negotiated separately and are subject to continual review.
Revenue generated through the provision of these services is accounted for gross of any amounts payable to other telecommunications operators for interconnect fees.
Annual report 2012 13 83 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 2.16 Revenue recognition continued Revenue from mobile, broadband, TV and fixed line products comprises amounts charged to customers in respect of monthly access charges, airtime and usage, messaging and other telecommunications services.
This includes data services and information provision and revenue from the sale of equipment, including handsets.
Monthly access charges from mobile, broadband, TV and fixed line products are invoiced and recorded as part of a periodic billing cycle.
Airtime, either from contract customers as part of the invoiced amount or from prepaid customers through the sale of prepaid cards, is recorded in the period in which the customer uses the service.
Unbilled revenue resulting from services provided to contract customers from the billing cycle date to the end of each period is accrued.
Unearned monthly access charges relating to periods after each accounting period are deferred.
The Group earns revenue from the transmission of content and traffic on its network originated by third-party providers.
Third-party dealers and partners are also used to facilitate the sale and provision of some services and equipment sold by the Group.
We assess whether revenue should be recorded gross as principal or net as agent, based on the features of such arrangements including the following factors: Whether the Group holds itself out as an agent: Whether the Group has latitude for establishing the price, either directly or indirectly, for example by providing additional services: Provision of customer remedies: Whether the Group has the primary responsibility for providing the services to the customer or for fulfilling the order: and Assumption of credit risk.
Revenue from sales of telecommunications equipment is recognised upon delivery to the customer.
The total consideration on arrangements with multiple revenue generating activities generally the sale of telecoms equipment and ongoing service is allocated to those components that are capable of operating independently, based on the estimated fair value of the components.
The fair value of each component is determined by amounts charged when sold separately and by reference to sales of equivalent products and services by third parties.
Revenue arising from the provision of other services, including maintenance contracts, is recognised over the periods in which the service is provided.
Customer acquisition costs including dealer commissions and similar payments are expensed as incurred.
2.17 Exceptional items Exceptional items are material items within profit or loss that derive from individual events that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group that are identified as exceptional items by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
2.18 Transactions with holders of non-controlling interests Transactions to acquire or dispose of ownership interests in the Groups subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
In these cases, the carrying amounts of the controlling and non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in the Groups relative interest in the subsidiary.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity attributable to the owners of the Parent Company.
3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements A number of estimates and assumptions have been made relating to the reporting of results of operations and the financial condition of the Group.
Results may differ significantly from those estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
The Directors consider that the following discussion addresses the Groups most critical accounting estimates.
These particular policies require subjective and complex assessments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are uncertain.
3.1 Valuation of assets for purchase accounting Where the Group undertakes business combinations, the cost of acquisition is allocated to identifiable net assets and contingent liabilities acquired and assumed by reference to their estimated fair values at the time of acquisition.
The remaining amount is recorded as goodwill.
Any value assigned to the identifiable assets is determined by reference to an active market, independent appraisal or estimate by management based on cash flow projections.
The latter situation includes estimates regarding expectations of the economic useful lives of the products and technology acquired.
84 Cable & Wireless Communications 3.2 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment The Group assigns useful lives and residual values to property, plant and equipment based on periodic studies of actual asset lives and the intended use for those assets.
Changes in circumstances such as technological advances for example from one generation of mobile technology to the next, prospective economic utilisation and physical condition of the assets concerned could result in the actual useful lives differing from initial estimates.
Where the Group determines that the useful life of property, plant and equipment should be shortened, it depreciates the net book value in excess of the residual value over the revised remaining useful life, thereby increasing depreciation expense.
Any change in an assets life is reflected in the Groups financial statements when the change in estimate is determined.
3.3 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets The Directors assess property, plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value is less than its recoverable amount.
Factors that are considered important and that could trigger an impairment review include the following: Obsolescence or physical damage: Significant changes in technology and regulatory environments: Significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results: Significant changes in the use of the assets or the strategy of the overall business: Significant negative industry or economic trends: and Significant decline in the market capitalisation relative to net book value for a sustained period.
In addition, the Directors test goodwill and other intangible assets with an indefinite life at least annually for impairment.
The identification of impairment indicators, the estimation of future cash flows and the determination of the recoverable amount for assets or cash-generating units requires significant consideration.
Note 12 sets out the assumptions and estimates used during these assessments.
3.4 Receivables allowance The impairment allowance for trade receivables reflects the Groups estimates of losses arising from the failure or inability of the Groups customers to make required payments.
The allowance is based on the ageing of customer accounts, customer creditworthiness and the Groups historical write-off experience.
Changes to the allowance may be required if the financial condition of the Groups customers improves or deteriorates.
An improvement in financial condition may result in lower actual write-offs.
Historically, changes to the estimate of losses have not been material to the Groups financial position and results.
3.5 Tax The calculation of the Groups total tax charge involves a degree of estimation in respect of certain items where the tax treatment cannot be finally determined until a resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, if necessary, through a formal legal process.
The final resolution of some of these items may give rise to material income statement and or cash flow variances.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Group and is often dependent on the efficiency of the administrative and legal processes in the relevant tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve.
Payments in respect of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account and on the final resolution of open items.
As a result, there can be substantial differences between the tax charge through profit or loss and tax payments made.
3.6 Provisions Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash outflows by a rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
These provisions are estimates for which the amount and timing of actual cash flows are dependent on future events.
Annual report 2012 13 85 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 3.7 Pensions The Group provides several defined benefit pension schemes for its employees.
The asset or liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of defined benefit pension plans represents the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the reporting date.
The expected cost of providing these defined benefit pensions will depend on an assessment of such factors as: The life expectancy of the members: The length of service: The rate of salary progression: The rate of return earned on assets in the future: The rate used to discount future pension liabilities: and Future inflation rates.
The assumptions used by the Group are set out in note 27 and are estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which may not necessarily be borne out in practice but are comparable to the median estimates in this regard used by FTSE 250 companies.
Changes to these assumptions could materially affect the defined benefit schemes liabilities and assets.
3.8 Fair value estimation The fair value of non-derivative financial instruments traded in active markets such as available-for-sale securities is based on quoted market prices at the reporting date.
The quoted market price used for traded financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price.
The appropriate quoted market price for traded financial liabilities is the current offer price.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the reporting date.
The fair value of non-derivative financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Group uses a variety of methods which include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models which reflect the specific instrument.
The nominal value of receivables less estimated impairments and payables are assumed to approximate to their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities measured at amortised cost is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
Discounted cash flows are used to determine the fair value for the majority of remaining financial instruments.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments such as forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the reporting date.
3.9 Revenue recognition Judgement is required in assessing the application of revenue recognition principles and the specific guidance in respect of Group revenue.
This includes the allocation of revenue between multiple deliverables, such as the sale value of telecommunications equipment and ongoing service, where such items are sold as part of a bundled package.
4 Revenue Accounting policy detailed in note 2.16.
2012 13 2011 12 Continuing operations US$m US$m Sales of telecommunications services and related operations 1,875 1,974 Sales of telecommunications equipment and accessories 67 58 Total revenue 1,942 2,032 86 Cable & Wireless Communications 5 Segment information Cable & Wireless Communications Group is an international telecommunications service provider.
It operates integrated telecommunications companies offering mobile, broadband, TV, fixed line and enterprise services to residential and business customers.
It had three principal operations which have been identified as the Groups reportable segments, being the Caribbean, Panama and Monaco.
During the year ended 31 March 2013, the Group announced that agreements had been reached for the sale of the Monaco & Islands and the Macau segments.
The Islands sub-group and Macau segment have been classified as discontinued operations.
Monaco does not meet the criteria for discontinued operations and remains an operating segment of the Group.
See note 9 for more information.
The Group also has a London corporate centre that does not meet the definition of an operating segment as it does not earn revenue from its activities.
This function primarily acts as a portfolio manager and operational support provider for the reportable segments.
The operating segment result from continuing operations for the two years ended 31 March 2013 are presented below and the prior year results have been re-presented for the Islands sub-group and Macau disposals.
The non-operating London corporate centre is also disclosed within other and eliminations in order to reconcile the reportable segment results to the Group results.
The Board the chief operating decision maker of the Group considers the performance of each of these operations in assessing the performance of the Group and making decisions about the allocation of resources.
Accordingly, these are the operating segments disclosed.
There are no other operating segments identified by the Board.
The operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Board.
Other and 1 Continuing operations Caribbean Panama Monaco eliminations Total Year ended 31 March 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue 1,120 586 236 1,942 Cost of sales 268 189 97 1 555 Gross margin 852 397 139 1 1,387 Pre-exceptional operating costs 578 158 64 2 798 2 EBITDA 274 239 75 1 589 Depreciation and amortisation 155 85 27 8 275 Net other operating expense income 2 6 4 Exceptional operating costs 136 136 Group operating loss profit 19 154 48 1 182 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 10 10 Total operating loss profit 19 154 48 9 192 Net other non-operating expense 12 4 16 Net finance expense 29 9 1 162 141 Profit before income tax 10 145 37 157 35 Income tax 1 42 3 3 41 Profit for the year from continuing operations 11 103 40 160 6 3 Income taxes paid 23 81 1 6 111 1 Other and eliminations includes London corporate centre expenses, eliminations for inter-segment transactions and the results of our joint ventures and associates with the exception of our joint venture in Afghanistan, which is managed and reported within Monaco.
2 EBITDA is used in management reporting as it is considered by management to be a key financial metric.
It is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, net other operating and non-operating income expense and exceptional items note 37.
3 Income taxes paid represents cash tax paid during the year by consolidated subsidiaries.
Annual report 2012 13 87 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 5 Segment information continued Other and 1 Continuing operations Caribbean Panama Monaco eliminations Total Year ended 31 March 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue 1,172 601 267 8 2,032 Cost of sales 277 199 120 4 592 Gross margin 895 402 147 4 1,440 Pre-exceptional operating costs 611 146 88 5 850 2 EBITDA 284 256 59 9 590 Depreciation and amortisation 170 71 28 8 277 Net other operating expense 11 11 Exceptional operating costs 283 9 18 310 Group operating loss profit 180 176 13 17 8 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 8 18 26 Total operating loss profit 180 176 21 1 18 Net other non-operating income 13 13 Net finance expense 21 7 15 105 148 Loss profit before income tax 201 169 6 91 117 Income tax 16 50 4 13 49 Loss profit for the year from continuing operations 217 119 10 78 166 3 Income taxes paid 25 32 4 9 70 1 Other and eliminations includes London expenses, eliminations for inter-segment transactions and the results of our joint ventures and associates with the exception of our joint venture in Afghanistan, which is managed and reported within Monaco.
There are no differences in the measurement of the reportable segments results and the Groups results.
There is no significant trading between the segments.
Transactions between the segments are on commercial terms similar to those offered to external customers.
There are no differences in the measurement of the reportable segments assets and liabilities and the Groups assets and liabilities.
Furthermore, there are no asymmetrical allocations to reportable segments.
Entity-wide disclosures for continuing operations The revenue from external customers are analysed by product below.
2012 13 2011 12 US$m US$m Mobile 911 910 Broadband and TV 196 198 Fixed voice 437 483 Enterprise, data and other 398 441 Total 1,942 2,032 88 Cable & Wireless Communications Revenue for continuing operations from external customers can be classified by country as follows: 2012 13 2011 12 US$m US$m United Kingdom country of domicile Bahamas 362 352 Jamaica 211 236 Panama 586 601 Monaco 236 268 All other countries and eliminations 547 575 Total 1,942 2,032 Revenue has been allocated to a country based on the location in which the telecommunications services were provided.
The Group does not have any customers from which revenue exceeds 10% of Group revenue.
Non-current assets in continuing operations other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and defined benefit pension assets are classified by country as follows: At 31 March At 31 March 2013 2012 US$m US$m United Kingdom country of domicile 17 16 Bahamas 371 361 Jamaica 121 111 Panama 554 539 Monaco 410 382 All other countries and eliminations includes non-operating assets and liabilities 698 772 Total 2,171 2,181 6 Operating costs and other operating income and expenses 6a Operating costs An analysis of the operating costs from continuing operations incurred by the Group is presented below, classified by the nature of the cost: 2012 13 2011 12 PreExceptional PreExceptional exceptional items Total exceptional items Total Continuing operations US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Outpayments and direct costs 555 555 592 592 Employee and other staff expenses 312 50 362 365 66 431 Operating lease rentals: Networks 17 17 16 16 Property 23 23 24 24 Other administrative expenses 234 234 240 240 Network costs 127 127 126 126 Property and utility costs 85 85 79 79 Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 1,353 50 1,403 1,442 66 1,508 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 221 86 307 228 232 460 Amortisation of intangible assets 54 54 49 12 61 Operating costs 1,628 136 1,764 1,719 310 2,029 Operating costs are stated net of credits or charges arising from the release or establishment of accruals.
Annual report 2012 13 89 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 6b Exceptional items Accounting policy detailed in note 2.17.
Exceptional losses totalled US$136 million comprising restructuring costs and asset impairment charges in the Caribbean 2011 12 US$310 million.
Exceptional items within operating costs before depreciation and amortisation are disclosed below while further information in respect of exceptional impairment charges can be found in note 12.
In 2012 13, exceptional staff costs of US$50 million comprise redundancy and restructuring costs in the Caribbean.
In 2011 12, exceptional staff costs of US$66 million include US$9 million in relation to a restructuring programme in Panama and US$57 million in the Caribbean which predominantly relates to the post acquisition restructuring plan in the Bahamas Telecommunications Company BTC.
6c Employee and other staff expenses Accounting policy detailed in note 2.13.
The pre-exceptional employee and other staff expenses for continuing operations are set out below: 2012 13 2011 12 US$m US$m Wages and salaries 299 353 Social security costs 22 11 Share-based payments 2 4 Pension costs: defined benefit plans 7 defined contribution plans 11 10 Temporary labour and recruitment 17 29 344 407 Less: Staff costs capitalised 32 42 Staff costs 312 365 Exceptional employee and other staff expenses note 6b 50 66 Total staff costs for continuing operations 362 431 Total staff costs in respect of discontinued operations in 2012 13 was US$76 million 2011 12 US$72 million.
The average number of persons, including Executive Directors, employed by the Group during the year was: 2012 13 2011 12 London 130 146 Caribbean 3,618 3,948 Panama 1,478 1,598 Monaco 323 412 Total 5,549 6,104 The average number of employees in discontinued operations in 2012 13 was 2,180 2011 12 2,111.
90 Cable & Wireless Communications Directors and key management remuneration Key management are represented by Directors only as those that have authority and responsibility for managerial decisions affecting the future development and business prospects of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
Included within employee costs is key management remuneration relating to continuing operations as follows: 2012 13 2011 12 US$m US$m Salaries and other short-term employment benefits 5.8 6.5 Post-employment benefits 0.6 0.5 1 Total Directors remuneration 6.4 7.0 Share-based payments 3.0 1.0 Total key management remuneration 9.4 8.0 1 Please refer to the Directors remuneration report on pages 51 to 66 for further information on aggregate Directors emoluments of US$6.4 million 4.1 million 2011 12 US$7 million 4.4 million.
The Directors remuneration report is presented in sterling as salaries, benefits and bonuses are paid in sterling.
6d Other operating income and expense In 2012 13, other operating income of US$11 million includes US$8 million of foreign exchange translation gains on our UK defined benefit pension schemes, US$1 million of gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment and US$2 million of compensation received from a supplier.
In 2011 12, other operating income primarily included gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
In 2012 13, other operating expenses of US$7 million includes US$2 million of transaction costs relating to the proposed disposal of Monaco Telecom note 9, US$4 million of hurricane rectification costs and US$1 million of losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
In 2011 12, other operating expenses of US$13 million included US$7 million of stamp duty on the Bahamas acquisition, US$5 million of costs incurred following Hurricane Irene and US$1 million of losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
6e Auditors remuneration 2012 13 2011 12 US$m US$m Audit services: Statutory audit services in respect of the Groups accounts 2.5 2.4 Audit of the Groups annual accounts 2.5 2.4 Amounts receivable by auditors and their associates: Statutory audit services in respect of other statutory accounts 1.8 1.5 Audit related regulatory reporting 0.8 0.6 5.1 4.5 Tax services compliance 0.1 0.1 Tax services advisory 0.2 Services related to corporate finance activities 0.9 0.2 Other services including other assurance services 0.2 6.3 5.0 Auditors remuneration for audit and other services in respect of discontinued operations in 2012 13 was US$1.6 million 2011 12 US$0.8 million.
This amount is included in the table above.
Fees paid to KPMG Audit plc for audit and other services to the Company are included in the table above and are not disclosed in its individual accounts as the Group accounts are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
Annual report 2012 13 91 N No ot te es t s to t o th he c e co on nso sol li id da at te ed fi d fin na an nc cia ial s l st ta at te em me en nt ts s f fo or t r th he y e ye ea ar e r en nd fide ed 3 d 31 M 1 Ma ar rc ch 2 h 20 01 13 3 7 Finance income expense and other non-operating expenses 7a Gains and losses on sale of businesses During the year, the Group disposed of its African enterprise subsidiary, Afinis Communications SA.
The disposal took place on 3 August 2012 for consideration of US$3 million resulting in a loss of US$16 million on disposal.
Afinis Communications SA was classified within the Monaco reportable segment.
During the year ended 31 March 2012, the Group disposed of its 50% interest in Telecom Vanuatu Limited, which was classified within the other reportable segment.
The disposal took place on 12 October 2011 for total consideration of US$5 million excluding transaction costs resulting in a gain on disposal of US$3 million.
The Group also disposed of its 49% interest in Fiji International Telecoms Limited, which was classified within the other reportable segment.
The disposal took place on 15 March 2012 for total consideration of US$10 million excluding transaction costs resulting in a gain on disposal of US$3 million.
A further gain of US$7 million was recognised in the year ended 31 March 2012 in relation to adjustments to working capital and additional contingent consideration on the sale of Cable & Wireless Bermuda Holdings and its subsidiaries.
The sale of Cable & Wireless Bermuda Holdings had completed during the year ended 31 March 2011.
None of the businesses disposed constitute a discontinued operation in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations due to their size.
7b Finance income and expense Accounting policy detailed in note 2.6.
2012 13 2011 12 Continuing operations US$m US$m Finance income Interest on cash and deposits 6 6 Investment income 1 1 Foreign exchange gains 3 Gains on derivative contracts 1 3 Total finance income 11 10 Finance expense Interest on bank loans 37 40 Interest on bonds 103 93 Unwinding of discounts on provisions 2 1 Unwinding of discount on Monaco put option liability 19 Foreign exchange losses 4 Losses on derivative contracts 12 Capitalised finance transaction costs written off 6 154 163 Less: Interest capitalised 2 5 Total finance expense 152 158 Tax relief of US$1 million is available on interest capitalised in the year ended 31 March 2013 2011 12 US$2 million.
Interest has been capitalised within property, plant and equipment at a rate of 3.7% 2011 12 4.0% on qualifying capital expenditure.
92 Cable & Wireless Communications 8 Income tax expense Accounting policy detailed in note 2.14.
2012 13 2011 12 US$m US$m Current tax charge for continuing operations UK tax at 24% 2011 12 - 26% 3 6 Double tax relief 3 6 Overseas tax 62 80 Adjustments relating to prior years 3 23 Total current tax charge for continuing operations 65 57 Deferred tax credit charge for continuing operations Origination and reversal of temporary differences 25 6 Adjustments relating to prior years 1 2 Total deferred tax credit for continuing operations 24 8 Total tax charge for continuing operations 41 49 Income tax charge relating to discontinued operations note 9 31 29 Total income tax charge 72 78 The Groups effective tax rate differs from the UK statutory tax rate as follows: 2012 13 2011 12 Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Profit before income tax before exceptional items 171 215 386 193 221 414 Exceptional charges 136 136 310 310 Profit before income tax 35 215 250 117 221 104 Income tax charge credit at UK statutory tax rate: 24% 8 52 60 30 57 27 2011 12 26% Effect of overseas tax rates 13 19 32 13 21 34 Effect of accounting for joint ventures and associates 2 2 Effect of withholding tax and intra-Group dividends 18 18 27 27 Net effect of income not taxable 24 2 22 39 3 42 Effect of changes in unrecognised deferred tax assets 50 4 46 129 3 126 Adjustments relating to prior years 4 4 25 1 26 Total income tax charge 41 31 72 49 29 78 Income tax credit on exceptional items 20 20 10 10 Pre-exceptional income tax charge 61 31 92 59 29 88 Pre-exceptional effective tax rate on profit 35.7% 23.8% 30.6% 21.3% Effective tax rate on profit 117.1% 28.8% 41.9 % 75.0% For the analysis of the Groups deferred tax assets and liabilities at the reporting date, including factors affecting the future tax rates, see note 25.
Annual report 2012 13 93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 9 Discontinued operations Accounting policy detailed in note 2.11 and 2.12 Year ended 31 March 2013 i Monaco & Islands At a general meeting on 9 January 2013, shareholders of the Group approved the sale of the Monaco & Islands operating segment to Batelco International Group Holding Limited Batelco.
The significant aspects of this transaction are described below: We entered into an agreement to sell the Islands sub-group, including the Groups interests in operations in the Maldives, the Channel Islands and Isle of Man, South Atlantic, Diego Garcia and the Seychelles, for US$580 million on a cash and debt-free basis.
The sale of the Islands sub-group, with the exception of the Seychelles for which regulatory approval has not yet been obtained, was completed post-year end on 3 April 2013 note 38 : We also agreed to sell a 25% interest in Compagnie Monegasque fide Communication SAM CMC, the holding company of the Groups interests in Monaco Telecom, for US$100 million.
The sale was completed on 3 April 2013: As part of the transaction we have an option to sell the remaining 75% of CMC shares to Batelco for US$345 million subject to regulatory approval from the Principality of Monaco: and On 3 April 2013, we issued Batelco with a put option over the 25% of CMC shares the CMC put option.
The CMC put option enables Batelco to require the Group to repurchase the 25% CMC shareholding for US$100 million in the event that the regulatory approval from the Principality of Monaco is not granted within 12 months of 3 April 2013.
Batelco can exercise this put option between 18 and 19 months from 3 April 2013.
The approval required from the Principality of Monaco means that Monaco does not meet the definition of a disposal group held for sale and does not meet the criteria to be classified as a discontinued operation as at 31 March 2013.
The results of Monaco Telecom are now disclosed separately in their own operating segment.
The Islands sub-group has been classified as a disposal group held for sale and also as a discontinued operation as at 31 March 2013, as it represents a separate major geographical area of operations.
The comparative consolidated income statement and cash flow statement have been restated.
The results of the Islands sub-group were previously recorded in the Monaco & Islands operating segment.
ii Macau At a general meeting on 28 February 2013, shareholders of the Group approved the sale of the Macau operating segment for US$750 million to CITIC Telecom International Holdings Limited.
This sale is expected to take place following receipt of the necessary legal and regulatory approvals.
The Macau operating segment has been classified as a disposal group held for sale and also as a discontinued operation as at 31 March 2013, as it represents a separate major geographical area of operations.
The results of Macau were previously recorded in the Macau operating segment.
The results of all discontinued operations are shown below: Total Islands discontinued sub-group Macau operations Year ended 31 March 2013 US$m US$m US$m Revenue 321 624 945 Expenses 243 479 722 Profit before tax 78 145 223 Tax 14 17 31 Profit after tax 64 128 192 Gain loss recognised on the remeasurement of the assets less costs to sell Profit for the year 64 128 192 Disposal costs 8 184 94 Cable & Wireless Communications Total Islands discontinued sub-group Macau operations Year ended 31 March 2012 US$m US$m US$m Revenue 319 524 843 Expenses 231 391 622 Profit before tax 88 133 221 Tax 13 16 29 Profit for the year 75 117 192 The financial position of the Islands sub-group and of Macau as at 31 March 2013 were as follows: Disposal Islands groups held sub-group Macau for sale As at 31 March 2013 US$m US$m US$m Assets Intangible assets 64 1 65 Property, plant and equipment 259 113 372 Investments in joint ventures and associates 5 5 Deferred tax assets 1 1 2 Retirement benefit assets 1 1 Trade and other receivables 57 47 104 Inventories 8 14 22 Cash and cash equivalents 57 88 145 Assets held for sale 452 264 716 Liabilities Trade and other payables 80 94 174 Borrowings 2 2 Provisions 9 1 10 Current tax liabilities 12 22 34 Deferred tax liabilities 4 4 Retirement benefit obligations 11 11 Liabilities held for sale 107 128 235 Annual report 2012 13 95 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 10 Earnings per share Basic earnings per ordinary share is based on the profit loss for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding.
2012 13 2011 12 US$m US$m Profit loss for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Parent Company 19 77 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue millions 2,494 2,506 Dilutive effect of share options millions Total weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue used to 2,494 2,506 calculate diluted earnings per share millions Basic earnings loss per share cents per share 0.8 3.1 Diluted earnings loss per share cents per share 0.8 3.1 Basic loss per share cents per share for continuing operations 3.4 7.8 Diluted loss per share cents per share for continuing operations 3.4 7.8 Basic earnings per share cents per share for discontinued operations 4.2 4.7 Diluted earnings per share cents per share for discontinued operations 4.2 4.7 11 Dividends declared and paid 2012 13 2011 12 US$m US$m Final dividend in respect of the prior year 133 136 Interim dividend in respect of the current year 33 66 Total dividend paid 166 202 During the year ended 31 March 2013, the Group declared and paid a final dividend of US5.33 cents per share in respect of the year ended 31 March 2012 2011 12 US5.33 cents per share in respect of the year ended 31 March 2011.
The Group declared and paid an interim dividend of US1.33 cents per share in respect of the year ended 31 March 2013 2011 12 US2.67 cents per share in respect of the year ended 31 March 2012.
In respect of the year ended 31 March 2013, the Directors have proposed a final dividend of US2.67 cents per share US$67 million 2011 12 US5.33 cents per share, for approval by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 25 July 2013.
These financial statements do not reflect the proposed dividend, which will be accounted for in shareholders equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ended 31 March 2014.
The Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust the Trust waived its right to dividends on the shares held in the Trust, with the exception of those shares held for Directors under the deferred annual bonus plan.
96 Cable & Wireless Communications 12 Impairment review Accounting policy detailed in note 2.7.
Goodwill A review of the carrying value of goodwill has been performed as at 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2012.
In performing this review, the recoverable amount has been determined by reference to the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use of related businesses.
The key assumptions used by the Group in the calculation of value in use for its goodwill balances are the discount rate, revenue growth, operating cost margin and the level of capital expenditure required to maintain the network at its current level.
The Groups significant goodwill balances are discussed below: Carrying value at Continuing operations Reporting 31 March 2013 Impairment Year ended 31 March 2013 segment US$m Growth rate Pre-tax discount rate required 1 Monaco Telecom group Monaco 246 Between 0% and 2.5% Between 8.0% and 23.0% 2 The Bahamas Telecommunications Company Caribbean 63 0% 9.3% Carrying value at Continuing operations Reporting 31 March 2012 Pre-tax Impairment Year ended 31 March 2012 segment US$m Growth rate discount rate required 1 Monaco Telecom group Monaco 205 Between 0% and 2.5% Between 9.0% and 24.0% 2 The Bahamas Telecommunications Company Caribbean 63 0% 9.4% 3 Afinis Monaco 0% 17.1% US$9m 1 Monaco Telecom group: Three relevant cash-generating units CGUs were identified for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of Monaco Telecom domestic including the cable television business: international business and other services.
2 The Bahamas Telecommunications Company BTC: One relevant CGU has been identified for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of the BTC business.
3 Afinis: The Groups interests in Afinis were disposed during 2012 13.
One relevant CGU was identified for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of the business.
At 31 March 2012, the goodwill was fully impaired resulting in a charge of US$9 million.
This was due to a decrease in the value in use, triggered by a change in the strategic direction of the business.
The value in use was determined for each CGU by discounting management forecasts of future cash flows based on the approved five year business plan extrapolated at long-term growth rates at pre-tax discount rates dependent on the risk-adjusted cost of capital of the different parts of the business.
Management forecasts take account of the historical trading experience of the relevant business.
Sensitivity The value in use is sensitive to a number of input assumptions, in particular relating to net cash flow and discount rate.
While the Group does not consider these scenarios to be reasonably possible, the value in use of the various CGUs in aggregate would not support the carrying value of the goodwill if: Monaco Telecom group net cash flows decreased by more than US$22 million per year or the discount rate increased by more than 8% above the pre-tax discount rate.
The Bahamas Telecommunications Company net cash flows decreased by more than US$31 million per year or the discount rate increased by more than 9% above the pre-tax discount rate.
Property, plant and equipment and other intangibles Following a difficult year of trading and in the midst of challenging economic conditions, the Directors considered the performance of a number of our smaller island markets in the Eastern Caribbean region and the impact on the carrying value of property, plant and equipment.
As a result of the review an impairment charge of US$86 million has been recorded across the islands noted below.
Included within the charge of US$86 million was a further charge in respect of the Groups business in Turks & Caicos as the performance of this business did not improve as anticipated.
The recoverable amount was assessed based upon value in use which was determined by discounting future cash flows based on the approved five year business plan at a pre-tax discount rate.
The calculation is sensitive to changes in the discount rate, terminal growth rate and underlying trading.
Annual report 2012 13 97 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 12 Impairment review continued Continuing operations CGUs Pre-tax Impairment 2012 13 Year ended 31 March 2013 Reporting segment identified discount rate US$m Anguilla Caribbean One 10.6% Land and buildings 4 Plant and equipment 8 12 British Virgin Islands Caribbean One 9.3% Plant and equipment 10 10 Dominica Caribbean One 14.4% Plant and equipment 7 7 Montserrat Caribbean One 15.6% Land and buildings 1 Plant and equipment 2 3 St. Lucia Caribbean One 14.4% Plant and equipment 22 22 St. Vincent Caribbean One 14.9% Plant and equipment 15 15 Turks & Caicos Caribbean One 10.6% Land and buildings 5 Plant and equipment 12 17 Total 86 There were a number of risks for our Jamaica business during 2011 12, including the need for change in the regulatory environment and the importance of business improvement strategies such as our Jamaica win back activity.
As at 31 March 2012, progress in these areas had not been as anticipated.
In light of this, a review of the carrying value of fixed assets was conducted and an impairment charge of US$184 million recorded.
Business performance in Turks & Caicos was below expectations coinciding with a period of economic downturn in the Islands.
Having considered the carrying value of plant and equipment an impairment charge of US$12 million was recorded as at 31 March 2012.
At 31 March 2012, in addition to the Afinis goodwill impairment disclosed above, other intangible assets of US$2 million and plant and equipment of US$7 million were impaired.
Continuing operations CGUs Pre-tax Impairment 2011 12 Year ended 31 March 2012 Reporting segment identified discount rate US$m Cable & Wireless Jamaica Caribbean One 11.0% Land and buildings 32 Plant and equipment 151 Intangible assets 1 184 Turks & Caicos Caribbean One 11.4% Plant and equipment 12 12 Afinis Monaco One 17.1% Plant and equipment 7 Intangible assets 2 9 Total 205 98 Cable & Wireless Communications Other There were no other events or changes in circumstances during the year to indicate that the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets had been impaired.
13 Intangible assets Accounting policy detailed in note 2.5.
Licences and Customer operating contracts and Goodwill Software agreements relationships Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2011 218 187 181 51 72 709 Business combinations 107 31 1 139 Additions 49 1 3 53 Transfer between categories 1 1 Disposals 1 3 3 7 Exchange differences 17 4 8 8 6 35 At 31 March 2012 308 240 173 71 67 859 Additions 47 11 7 65 Transfer from tangible assets 27 27 Transfer between categories 6 1 1 8 Disposals 18 1 3 6 2 30 Exchange differences 7 5 4 2 18 Transfer to assets held for sale 21 29 5 33 17 105 At 31 March 2013 309 237 160 31 61 798 Amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2011 12 137 68 10 49 276 1 Charge for the year 32 11 6 9 58 Impairment 9 1 1 1 12 Disposals 1 3 3 7 Transfer between categories 2 2 Exchange differences 2 3 2 1 8 At 31 March 2012 19 171 75 11 55 331 1 Charge for the year 36 10 10 7 63 Disposals 18 1 3 6 2 30 Transfer between categories 5 1 4 8 Exchange differences 1 4 2 1 3 11 Transfer to assets held for sale 25 4 11 40 At 31 March 2013 182 75 7 49 313 Net book value At 31 March 2013 309 55 85 24 12 485 At 31 March 2012 289 69 98 60 12 528 1 The charge for the year includes US$9 million 2011 12 US$9 million in relation to discontinued operations.
Annual report 2012 13 99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 13 Intangible assets continued Goodwill balances are allocated to the following cash-generating units: Dhivehi Raajjeyge Monaco Gulhun PLC 1 2 2 3 BTC Telecom Afinis Dhiraagu Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2011 172 9 25 206 Business combinations note 31 63 44 107 Exchange differences 11 4 15 Impairment 9 9 At 31 March 2012 63 205 21 289 Business combinations note 31 47 47 Exchange differences 6 6 Transfer to assets held for sale 21 21 At 31 March 2013 63 246 309 1 Reporting segment: Caribbean.
14 Property, plant and equipment Accounting policy detailed in note 2.4.
2012 13 2011 12 Assets Assets Land and Plant and under Land and Plant and under buildings equipment construction Total buildings equipment construction Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 501 4,471 320 5,292 416 4,162 254 4,832 Business combinations 40 142 70 252 Additions 1 43 332 376 1 355 356 Movements in asset retirement obligations 2 1 3 2 1 1 Disposals 3 44 1 48 65 65 Transfers to intangible assets 4 23 27 Transfers between categories 29 375 404 52 298 350 Exchange differences 17 73 1 91 5 68 9 82 Transfers to assets held for sale 86 917 35 1,038 At 31 March 427 3,852 188 4,467 501 4,471 320 5,292 Depreciation At 1 April 234 3,272 3,506 180 2,895 3,075 1 Charge for the year 18 278 296 16 314 330 Impairment 10 76 86 32 170 202 Disposals 41 41 60 60 Transfers between categories 8 8 Exchange differences 13 68 81 2 39 41 Transfers to assets held for sale 46 620 666 At 31 March 203 2,897 3,100 234 3,272 3,506 Net book value at 31 March 224 955 188 1,367 267 1,199 320 1,786 1 Includes exceptional accelerated depreciation of US$nil 2011 12 US$30 million.
Refer to note 6b for further information.
The charge includes US$75 million relating to discontinued operations 2011 12 US$72 million.
Refer to note 9 for more information.
100 Cable & Wireless Communications The Group held no assets under finance leases at 31 March 2013 or 31 March 2012.
Additions during the year include interest and own work capitalised during the construction of certain assets of US$2 million 2011 12 US$5 million and US$38 million 2011 12 US$48 million respectively.
Of these amounts US$nil 2011 12 US$nil and US$6 million 2011 12 US$6 million respectively, relate to discontinued operations note 9.
15 Investments in joint ventures and associates Accounting policy detailed in note 2.1.
2012 13 2011 12 US$m US$m Gross carrying amount At 1 April Cost 78 78 Share of post-acquisition reserves 223 224 301 302 Share of profit after tax 10 26 Dividends paid to Group companies 6 4 Additions 5 Disposals 22 Loan from Group companies 4 Other movements 1 2 Transfers to assets held for sale 5 At 31 March 301 301 Impairment allowance At 1 April 48 59 Disposals 11 At 31 March 48 48 Net carrying amount at 31 March 253 253 The Groups total interest in its joint ventures and associates is presented below: 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 US$m US$m Non-current assets 423 309 Current assets 103 120 Current liabilities 152 79 Non-current liabilities 121 97 Share of net assets 253 253 Annual report 2012 13 101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 15 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued 2012 13 2011 12 US$m US$m Revenue 347 370 Operating costs 326 338 Operating profit 21 32 Net financing costs 5 3 Share of profit before tax 16 29 Income tax 6 3 Dividends paid to Group companies 6 4 Share of retained profit 4 22 There are no significant restrictions on joint ventures and associates ability to transfer funds to the Group.
The joint ventures and associates have no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed, nor has the Group any significant contingent liabilities in relation to its interests in joint ventures and associates.
The Groups joint ventures and associates have not discontinued any operations during the year ended 31 March 2013 2011 12 none.
16 Available-for-sale financial assets Accounting policy detailed in note 2.6.
2012 13 2011 12 US$m US$m At 1 April 55 31 Business combinations 20 Fair value gain recorded in other comprehensive income 4 5 Exchange differences 1 1 At 31 March 58 55 Available-for-sale financial assets consist of UK and Bahamian Government bonds.
These assets were measured at fair value based on observable market data.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for available-for-sale financial assets is equal to their carrying value.
102 Cable & Wireless Communications 17 Trade and other receivables Accounting policy detailed in note 2.6.
31 March 31 March 2013 2012 US$m US$m Gross trade receivables 320 387 Impairment allowance 78 91 Net trade receivables 242 296 Other receivables 67 66 Prepayments and accrued income 156 236 Taxation and social security receivables 17 2 Amounts receivable from joint ventures and associates 2 2 Trade and other receivables current 484 602 Other receivables 46 34 Prepayments and accrued income 20 21 Other receivables non-current 66 55 Total trade and other receivables 550 657 The maximum exposure to credit risk for receivables is equal to their carrying value.
There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of trade and other receivables presented.
Concentrations of credit risks with respect to trade receivables are small as the Group customer base is large and unrelated.
Receivables predominantly relate to retail customers, governments and corporate entities as well as other telecommunications operators.
Credit risk procedures vary depending on the size or type of customer.
These procedures include such activities as credit checks, payment history analysis and credit approval limits.
Based on these procedures, management assessed the credit quality of those receivables that are neither past due nor impaired as low risk.
There have been no significant changes to the composition of receivables counterparties within the Group that indicate this would change in the future.
During the periods presented there was a continued economic weakness in many of the markets in which the Group operated.
This would indicate an increased credit risk on receivables that are neither past due nor impaired.
However, management assessed this risk and, after providing valuation allowance where necessary, continued to support the assessment of credit quality as low risk.
An ageing analysis of the current trade receivables and current other receivables that are not impaired is as follows excludes prepayments and accrued income, taxation and social security and amounts receivable from joint ventures and associates : 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 US$m US$m Not yet due 42 145 Overdue 30 days or less 118 100 Overdue 31 to 60 days 43 40 Overdue 61 to 90 days 21 32 Overdue 91 days to 180 days 28 27 Overdue 181 days or more 57 18 Current trade receivables and current other receivables 309 362 Based on historic default rates, the Group believes that no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade and other receivables not past due or past due by up to 30 days.
Due to the nature of the telecommunications industry, balances relating to interconnection with other carriers often have lengthy settlement periods.
Generally, interconnection agreements with major carriers result in both receivables and payables balances with the same counterparty.
Industry practice is that receivable and payable amounts relating to interconnection revenue and costs for a defined period are agreed between counterparties and settled on a net basis.
Annual report 2012 13 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 17 Trade and other receivables continued An analysis of movements in the trade receivables impairment allowance during the year is as follows: 2012 13 2011 12 US$m US$m At 1 April 91 67 Bad debts written off 34 32 Increase in allowance 29 39 Business combinations 20 Exchange differences 3 Transfers to assets held for sale 8 At 31 March 78 91 In a small number of the Groups operations it is customary and practice to collect security deposits from customers as collateral.
These are recorded as liabilities within other payables.
18 Inventories Accounting policy detailed in note 2.8.
Inventories represent equipment, cable capacity, consumables and accessories held for sale.
Inventories of US$31 million 31 March 2012 US$103 million are presented net, after recording an allowance of US$9 million 31 March 2012 US$14 million made against slow moving or obsolete items.
The cost of equipment, cable capacity, consumables and accessories held for sale that were expensed within operating costs in 2012 13 was US$126 million 2011 12 US$119 million.
Cable capacity previously held within inventory was capitalised during the year following a reassessment of how the Group intends to utilise that capacity in future periods.
Inventories of the Group are not pledged as security or collateral against any of the Groups borrowings.
19 Cash and cash equivalents Accounting policy detailed in note 2.6.
31 March 31 March 2013 2012 US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 130 188 Short-term bank deposits 22 124 Cash and cash equivalents 152 312 Short-term bank deposits consist primarily of money market deposits, which can be readily converted to cash at short notice.
The effective interest rate on short-term bank deposits at 31 March 2013 was 2.41% 31 March 2012 1.39%.
At 31 March 2013, these deposits had an average maturity of 25 days 31 March 2012 nine days.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for cash and cash equivalents is equal to the carrying value of those financial instruments.
104 Cable & Wireless Communications 20 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Accounting policy detailed in note 2.6.
2012 13 2011 12 Derivative Derivative CWW financial CWW financial shares instruments Total shares instruments Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 10 8 18 20 13 33 Delivery of shares to employees 1 1 Shares sold 11 11 2 2 Fair value movement 1 1 7 7 Movement in derivative financial assets 8 8 5 5 At 31 March 10 8 18 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss current 10 8 18 On demerger, shares in the Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust the Trust were converted from 43 million Cable and Wireless plc shares to 43 million Cable & Wireless Communications Plc shares and 43 million Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares.
The Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares held by the Trust were reclassified at demerger as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss as they represent shares in an unrelated listed company.
All remaining shares were disposed during the year.
Derivative financial instruments At 31 March 2012, the Group had foreign exchange swap contracts to sell US$324 million in hedging future sterling obligations regarding the coupon and redemption of the 200 million bond which matured in August 2012.
The Group did not apply hedge accounting to these contracts and as such they were revalued to fair value through profit or loss.
At 31 March 2012, the fair value of these contracts was an asset of US$8 million.
21 Trade and other payables 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 US$m US$m Trade payables 160 190 Other tax and social security costs 21 21 Accruals 330 428 Deferred income 39 88 Other payables 72 105 Trade and other payables current 622 832 Accruals 4 Deferred income 24 26 Other payables 3 1 Trade and other payables non-current 27 31 Total trade and other payables 649 863 There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of trade and other payables presented.
For liquidity risk exposure analysis purposes, the carrying amount of trade and other payables is the same as the contractual cash flows, with the contractual maturities of these financial liabilities all due in less than one year.
Annual report 2012 13 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 22 Borrowings Accounting policy detailed in note 2.6.
31 March 2013 31 March 2012 Interest Carrying Interest Carrying rate value Fair value rate value Fair value Type Security % US$m US$m % US$m US$m 1 1 2020 US$400 million secured bond Fixed Share pledges 8.750 391 453 8.750 390 425 over Group assets 1 1 2019 200 million bond Fixed Unsecured 8.625 224 255 8.625 234 234 1 1 2017 US$500 million secured bond Fixed Share pledges 7.750 493 533 7.750 492 523 over Group assets 3 2 2016 US$600 million facility Floating Unsecured 2.550 360 360 1 2012 200 million bond Fixed Unsecured 8.750 317 325 1 2 US dollar and currencies linked to the Fixed and Unsecured 3.929 296 296 3.898 269 269 US dollar loans and facilities various floating dates to 2038 2 US dollar loan notes Floating Unsecured 8.060 37 37 2 2 Overdrafts Floating Unsecured 2 2 5 5 Total borrowings 1,803 1,707 Borrowings current 86 460 Borrowings non-current 1,717 1,247 1 This value was determined by reference to market values obtained from third parties.
2 The carrying amount approximates to fair value.
3 On 19 October 2011, the Group entered into five-year borrowing arrangements for US$600 million of revolving credit facilities with a maturity date of October 2016.
As at 31 March 2013, the Group had US$240 million undrawn facilities available 31 March 2012 US$600 million undrawn.
These facilities incur commitment fees at market rates prevailing when the facilities were arranged.
The agreements for the facilities entered into during the year contain financial and other covenants which are standard to these types of arrangements.
For liquidity risk exposure analysis purposes, the following are the contractual maturities of loans including the expected interest payable at rates prevailing at the reporting date : 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 US$m US$m Borrowings Due in less than one year 199 593 Due in more than one year but not more than two years 196 140 Due in more than two years but not more than five years 1,254 872 Due in more than five years 749 787 2,398 2,392 Less: future finance charges on loans 595 685 Total borrowings 1,803 1,707 It is not expected that the cash flows included in the maturity analysis above could occur significantly earlier or at significantly different amounts.
Interest was payable on borrowings falling due after more than five years at rates of between 0.0% and 8.8%.
106 Cable & Wireless Communications Reconciliation of net funds Funds are defined as cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits.
Debt is defined as bonds, loans and overdrafts.
Analysis of changes in net funds: Transferred At At 1 April Bond Exchange Discontinued to held for 31 March 2012 Cash flow amortisation Transfers differences operations sale 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 188 5 8 45 130 Short-term deposits 124 8 3 9 100 22 Total funds 312 13 3 1 145 152 Debt due within one year 460 399 2 43 9 9 2 86 Debt due after more than one year 1,247 521 2 43 10 1,717 Total debt 1,707 122 4 19 9 2 1,803 Total net debt funds 1,395 135 4 16 10 143 1,651 23 Financial liabilities at fair value Accounting policy detailed in note 2.6.
At 31 March 2013 At 31 March 2012 Current Total Current Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Monaco Telecom put option i 258 258 250 250 Interest rate swap - ii 1 1 Total financial liabilities at fair value 258 258 251 251 i. Monaco Telecom put option A put option is held by the non-controlling shareholder of Monaco Telecom, the Principality of Monaco the Principality.
This put option is measured at fair value and is calculated using discounted cash flow techniques, using inputs that are not based on publicly observable market data.
The liability for the put option represents 45% of the market value of Monaco Telecom.
The key assumptions used in valuing the put option liability are the Monaco Telecom five year operating plan in particular revenue performance and discount rates of between 8% and 23% for the distinct operating businesses with Monaco Telecom 2011 12 9% and 24%.
A movement in the discount rate of 1% would result in an increase or decrease in the liability of US$28 million 2011 12 US$25 million.
In determining the fair value of the liability, consideration has been given to the terms of the proposed disposal to Batelco Group as outlined in note 9.
Although the Group considers there to be only a remote likelihood of the Monaco Telecom put option being exercised, IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation requires the present value of the amount payable to be recognised as a liability regardless of the probability of exercise, as this is not within the Groups control.
As this put option was issued as part of a business combination, accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2004, any change in remeasuring the derivative to fair value is recorded as an adjustment to goodwill note 31.
Annual report 2012 13 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 23 Financial liabilities at fair value continued A reconciliation of the movements in the value of the Monaco Telecom put option is as follows: 2012 13 2011 12 US$m US$m At 1 April 250 216 Decrease as a result of dividends paid to the Principality 33 17 Changes in fair value recognised as an adjustment to goodwill 47 44 Increase in fair value of put option due to discount unwinding recognised as a finance expense 19 Foreign exchange movements recognised in the foreign currency reserve in equity 6 12 At 31 March 258 250 ii.
Interest rate swap At acquisition on 6 April 2011, the Bahamas Telecommunications Company held an interest rate swap to economically hedge the interest rate risks associated with a loan from a consortium of banks led by Citibank N. A.
The effect of the swap is to convert the floating rate loan at US three months LIBOR plus 1.35% into a fixed rate loan at 4.59% per annum.
As at 31 March 2012, the interest rate swap had a negative fair value of US$1 million.
The hedge did not qualify for hedge accounting, therefore the decrease in fair value of US$1 million was recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The interest rate swap matured on 15 February 2013.
The increase in fair value of US$1 million is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
24 Financial instruments at fair value The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method.
The different levels are defined as follows: Level 1 Fair values measured using quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Fair values measured using inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability either directly from prices or indirectly derived from prices.
Level 3 Fair values measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
At 31 March 2013 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Note US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets measured at fair value: UK and Bahamian Government bonds 16 58 58 Total financial assets at fair value 58 58 Financial liabilities measured at fair value: Monaco Telecom put option 23 258 258 Total financial liabilities at fair value 258 258 At 31 March 2012 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Note US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets measured at fair value: UK and Bahamian Government bonds 16 55 55 Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares at fair value through profit or loss 20 10 10 Derivative instruments 20 8 8 Total financial assets at fair value 65 8 73 Financial liabilities measured at fair value: Interest rate swap 23 1 1 Put option relating to Monaco Telecom 23 250 250 Total financial liabilities at fair value 1 250 251 108 Cable & Wireless Communications 25 Deferred tax Accounting policy detailed in note 2.14.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are as follows: Capital allowances on Financial non-current position assets Tax losses Pensions Other offset Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax assets 19 43 3 15 76 4 Deferred tax liabilities 78 13 23 76 38 At 1 April 2011 59 43 10 8 34 1 Credit charge to profit or loss 65 41 2 14 8 Tax charged to other comprehensive income 2 2 Exchange differences 1 2 1 1 1 At 31 March 2012 7 9 23 25 Deferred tax assets 33 4 2 34 5 Deferred tax liabilities 26 13 25 34 30 At 1 April 2012 7 9 23 25 1 Charge credit to profit or loss 33 21 2 35 25 Transfers to assets held for sale 5 1 1 1 2 Exchange differences 1 1 2 1 1 At 31 March 2013 22 19 6 10 1 Deferred tax assets 15 19 3 10 17 30 Deferred tax liabilities 37 9 17 29 At 31 March 2013 22 19 6 10 1 1 Including US$1 million credit in relation to discontinued operations 2011 12 US$nil.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following temporary differences: Capital allowances available on non-current assets Tax losses Pensions Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2013 184 5,983 175 46 6,388 At 31 March 2012 207 6,169 171 83 6,630 Tax losses recognised and unrecognised expire as follows: 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 US$m US$m Within 1 year Within 3 years 7 Within 5 years 7 Within 10 years 41 38 After more than 10 years Annual report 2012 13 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 25 Deferred tax continued Other tax losses are not subject to expiry.
The US$5,983 million 31 March 2012 US$6,169 million tax losses include UK capital losses of US$5,006 million 31 March 2012 US$5,248 million.
Deferred tax is not provided on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and joint ventures and associates where the Group controls the timing of remittance and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches and joint ventures and associates for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is US$198 million 31 March 2012 US$296 million.
These temporary differences relate to unremitted earnings.
The Budget on 20 March 2013 announced a further reduction to the UK corporation tax rate to 20% from 1 April 2015.
This change had not been substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and therefore is not recognised in these financial statements.
26 Provisions Accounting policy detailed in note 2.15.
Network and asset Redundancy retirement Legal and Property costs obligations other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2012 5 7 35 51 98 Additional provisions 53 3 5 61 Amounts used 3 24 1 28 Unused amounts released 1 2 2 5 Effect of discounting 1 2 3 Exchange differences 1 1 2 Transfers to assets held for sale 8 2 10 At 31 March 2013 2 34 28 53 117 Provisions current 2 34 5 44 85 Provisions non-current 23 9 32 Network and asset Redundancy retirement Legal and Property costs obligations other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2011 7 6 28 53 94 Business combinations 10 10 Additional provisions 56 1 14 71 Amounts used 2 55 3 12 72 Unused amounts released 1 3 4 Effect of discounting 2 2 Exchange differences 2 1 3 At 31 March 2012 5 7 35 51 98 Provisions current 5 7 5 44 61 Provisions non-current 30 7 37 The net expense recognised through profit or loss from movements in provisions relating to discontinued operations at 31 March 2013 was US$nil 31 March 2012 net release of US$2 million.
110 Cable & Wireless Communications Property Provision has been made for dilapidation costs and for the lower of the best estimate of the unavoidable lease payments or cost of exit in respect of vacant properties.
Unavoidable lease payments represent the difference between the rentals due and any income expected to be derived from the vacant properties being sublet.
The provision is expected to be used over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life.
Redundancy Provision has been made for the total employee related costs of redundancies announced prior to the reporting date.
Amounts provided for and spent during the periods presented primarily relate to regional transformation activities.
The provision is expected to be used within one year.
Network and asset retirement obligations Provision has been made for the best estimate of the unavoidable costs associated with redundant leased network capacity.
Provision has also been made for the best estimate of the asset retirement obligation associated with office sites, technical sites, mobile cell sites, domestic and sub-sea cabling.
This provision is expected to be used at the end of the life of the related asset on which the obligation arises.
Legal and other Legal and other provisions include amounts relating to specific legal claims against the Group together with amounts in respect of certain employee benefits and sales taxes.
Legal proceedings are further discussed in note 34.
27 Retirement benefits obligations Accounting policy detailed in note 2.13.
The Group operates pension schemes for its current and former UK and overseas employees.
These schemes include both defined benefit schemes, where retirement benefits are based on employees remuneration and length of service, and defined contribution schemes, where retirement benefits reflect the accumulated value of agreed contributions paid by, and in respect of, employees.
Contributions to the defined benefit schemes are made in accordance with the recommendations of independent actuaries who value the schemes.
Defined benefit schemes Cable & Wireless Communications operates the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund CWSF.
This plan provides defined benefit and defined contribution arrangements for current and former employees of the Group.
The CWSF has been closed to new defined benefit members since 1998.
Additionally, the Group operates unfunded defined benefit arrangements in the UK.
These primarily relate to pension provisions for former Directors and other senior employees in respect of their earnings in excess of the previous Inland Revenue salary cap.
The Group operates other defined benefit pension schemes in Macau, Jamaica, Barbados and Guernsey.
Funding valuation Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund The latest triennial actuarial valuation of the CWSF was carried out by independent actuaries Towers Watson Limited as at 31 March 2010.
The March 2010 actuarial valuation showed that based on long-term financial assumptions the contribution rate required to meet the future benefit accrual was 38.4% of pensionable earnings 33.4% employers and 5.0% employees.
This contribution rate will be reviewed when the next triennial valuation is carried out, at 31 March 2013.
The terms of the CWSF Trust Deed also allow the Trustee or the Company to call for a valuation at any time.
Cable & Wireless Communications paid a total contribution of US$2 million in 2012 13 2011 12 US$2 million, to the CWSF.
A deficit recovery funding plan was also agreed with the Trustees during March 2011 as part of the March 2010 actuarial valuation with the aim that the deficit would be eliminated by April 2016.
The payments under this agreement will fall within the following ranges: July 2014 20.5 million to 30.4 million US$31.2 million to US$46.3 million : July 2015 21.1 million to 31.3 million US$32.2 million to US$47.7 million : and April 2016 21.9 million to 32.5 million US$33.4 million to US$49.5 million.
These contributions are based on best estimated investment returns and are subject to the outcome of the next full valuation due in March 2013.
During 2008, the CWSF Trustee agreed an insurance buy-in of the UK pensioner liabilities with Prudential Insurance.
The buy-in involved the purchase of a bulk annuity policy by the CWSF under which Prudential Insurance assumed responsibility for the benefits payable to the CWSFs UK pensioners.
These pensioner liabilities and the matching annuity policy remain within the CWSF.
On 19 December 2011, a further 233 pensioners, those having commenced with pensions in payment since the original annuity, were brought within the bulk annuity policy for a net cost of 57 million US$88 million, which was funded from gilts held by the CWSF.
Annual report 2012 13 111 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 27 Retirement benefits obligations continued Contingent funding agreement The Group is party to a contingent funding agreement with the CWSF Trustee, under which the Trustee can call for a letter of credit or cash escrow in certain circumstances, such as the breach by the Group of certain financial covenants, the incurrence by the Group of secured debt above an agreed level or the failure to maintain available commitments under the revolving credit facilities of at least US$150 million.
Following the Groups issue of the 2020 bonds in January 2012 note 22, and the consequential increase in the Groups available secured borrowings, letters of credit totalling 100 million US$152 million 2011 12 US$160 million as of 31 March 2013 have been issued in favour of the CWSF Trustee under the Contingent Funding Agreement.
The letters of credit will remain in place pursuant to the terms of the Contingent Funding Agreement which may be until the deficit of the CWSF is fully funded.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits valuation Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund and other schemes The IAS 19 valuations of the major defined benefit pension schemes and medical plans operated by the Group have been updated to 31 March 2013 by qualified independent actuaries.
Lane, Clark & Peacock LLP prepared the valuation for the CWSF and the UK unfunded arrangements.
Towers Watson Limited reviewed the IAS 19 valuations prepared for all remaining schemes.
The main financial assumptions applied in the valuations and an analysis of schemes assets are as follows: 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 CWSF Other schemes CWSF Other schemes Assets Assumption Assets Assumption Assets Assumption Assets Assumption US$m % US$m % US$m % US$m % RPI inflation assumption 3.3 4.7 3.2 4.3 CPI inflation assumption 2.3 2.2 Salary increases 3.8 5.3 3.7 4.9 Pension increases 2.1-3.2 2.7 2.0-3.1 3.2 Discount rate CWSF 4.2 4.9 Discount rate CWSF uninsured liability 4.5 4.9 Discount rate other schemes 8.0 7.2 Long-term expected rate of return on plan assets Annuity policies 1,297 4.0 1,225 4.9 Equities 320 7.9 32 8.5 323 7.8 98 7.9 Bonds and gilts 141 2.9 120 6.1 101 3.2 166 5.0 Property 3 6.4 37 8.1 40 7.6 Cash and swaps 10 3.0 33 6.0 14 3.3 36 5.3 1,771 222 1,663 340 Assumptions used are best estimates from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
The assumptions shown above for other schemes represent a weighted average of the assumptions used for the individual schemes.
The assumptions regarding current mortality rates in retirement were set having regard to the actual experience of the CWSFs pensioners and dependants over the three years ended 31 March 2010.
In addition, allowance was made for future mortality improvements in line with medium cohort projections of the 1992 mortality series tables published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, subject to a minimum annual rate of improvement of 1.5%.
These are the mortality rates used for calculating the statement of financial position for the year ended 31 March 2013.
The mortality rates used for the figure in the income statement for the year ended 31 March 2013 are the same as those which were used for calculating the statement of financial position for the year ended 31 March 2012.
Based on these assumptions, the life expectancies of pensioners aged 60 are as follows: On On On 31 March 31 March 31 March 2013 2023 2033 years years years Male pensioners and dependants 28.0 29.6 31.2 Female pensioners 26.7 28.2 29.7 Female dependants 32.6 34.2 35.8 112 Cable & Wireless Communications A one year increase in the life expectancy assumptions would have increased the CWSF liabilities by approximately US$51 million as at 31 March 2013.
The corresponding increase in the value of assets due to the change in the estimated value of the annuity policy would be US$39 million.
A 0.25% pa decrease in the discount rate used to value the scheme liabilities would have increased the liabilities by around US$77 million.
The corresponding increase in the value of assets due to the change in the estimated value of the annuity policy would be US$43 million.
A 0.25% pa change in the assumed rate of salary increases would have changed the liabilities by a negligible amount.
Excluding the annuities, which are measured at the value of the obligation to which they relate, the overall expected rate of return for each pension scheme is a weighted average of the expected asset return for each asset class.
The expected asset return for each asset class has been set as a best estimate of the long-term return that will be achieved for the particular asset class in the country in question having regard to investment yields on the measurement date.
Using the projected unit method for the valuation of liabilities, the current service cost is expected to increase when expressed as a percentage of pensionable payroll as the members of the scheme approach retirement.
The assets and liabilities of the defined benefit pension schemes and post-retirement medical plans operated by the Group were as follows: 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 Other Other CWSF schemes Total CWSF schemes Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Total fair value of plan assets 1,771 222 1,993 1,663 340 2,003 Present value of funded obligations 1,872 188 2,060 1,766 306 2,072 Excess of liabilities assets of funded obligations 101 34 67 103 34 69 Present value of unfunded obligations 46 46 45 45 Impact of the minimum funding requirement 30 30 26 26 Effect of asset ceiling 16 16 9 9 Exchange differences 1 1 2 Net deficit 130 27 157 129 20 149 Defined benefit pension plans in deficit 130 55 185 129 60 189 Defined benefit pension plans in surplus 28 28 40 40 Net deficit 130 27 157 129 20 149 Included within these liabilities is an amount of US$30 million 2011 12 US$29 million to cover the cost of former Directors pension entitlements.
The deficit recovery funding plan agreed with the Trustees of the CWSF during 2010 11 constitutes a minimal funding requirement.
An adjustment to the deficit in the CWSF to account for the minimum funding requirement has been calculated in accordance with IFRIC 14 The limits on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
The adjustment to the deficit, which is recorded in other comprehensive income, was US$30 million as at 31 March 2013 2011 12 US$26 million.
When defined benefit funds have an IAS 19 surplus, they are recorded at the lower of that surplus and the future economic benefits available in the form of a cash refund or a reduction in future contributions.
Any adjustment to the surplus is recorded in other comprehensive income.
The effect of these adjustments, described as asset ceiling adjustments, were US$16 million as at 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 US$9 million.
Annual report 2012 13 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 27 Retirement benefits obligations continued The amounts recognised in the income statement were as follows: 2012 13 2011 12 Other Other CWSF schemes Total CWSF schemes Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Current service cost 2 3 5 2 8 10 Past service credit 10 10 4 4 Interest cost 83 15 98 88 20 108 Expected return on plan assets 86 14 100 92 22 114 Gains on curtailment 2 2 Total net credit charge 11 2 9 6 6 Charge related to discontinued operations 3 3 Total net credit charge 11 5 6 6 6 The actual return on plan assets was a gain of US$297 million 2011 12 gain of US$162 million.
The total amount recognised in other comprehensive income cumulatively to 31 March 2013 is a loss of US$705 million 2011 12 loss of US$667 million.
In 2012 13, net actuarial losses amounting to US$27 million 2011 12 losses of US$113 million have been recognised in other comprehensive income.
A loss of US$7 million was recognised due to changes in the asset ceiling 2011 12 gain of US$7 million.
A loss of US$4 million was recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of minimum funding requirements 2011 12 gain of US$34 million.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit pension obligations are as follows: 2012 13 2011 12 Other Other CWSF schemes Total CWSF schemes Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 1,766 351 2,117 1,619 322 1,941 Current service cost 2 7 9 2 8 10 Past service credit 10 10 4 4 Interest cost 83 20 103 88 20 108 Actuarial losses recognised in other comprehensive income 204 23 227 148 13 161 Employee contributions 4 4 5 5 Gains on curtailment 2 2 Benefits paid 86 11 97 84 13 97 Exchange differences 87 18 105 3 4 7 Transfers to assets held for sale 140 140 At 31 March 1,872 234 2,106 1,766 351 2,117 114 Cable & Wireless Communications Changes in the fair value of defined benefit assets are as follows: 2012 13 2011 12 Other Other CWSF schemes Total CWSF schemes Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 1,663 340 2,003 1,598 328 1,926 Expected return 86 20 106 92 22 114 Actuarial gains losses recognised in other comprehensive income 188 12 200 58 10 48 Contributions by employer 2 10 12 2 12 14 Employee contributions 4 4 5 5 Benefits paid 86 11 97 84 13 97 Exchange differences 82 23 105 3 4 7 Transfers to assets held for sale 130 130 At 31 March 1,771 222 1,993 1,663 340 2,003 Experience gains on plan assets and liabilities at the end of the periods presented were as follows: 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 Other Other Other CWSF schemes CWSF schemes CWSF schemes US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Plan assets 1,771 222 1,663 340 1,598 328 Defined benefit obligations 1,872 234 1,766 351 1,619 322 Effect of minimum funding requirement 30 26 57 Exchange differences 1 3 Deficit surplus excluding the effects of the asset ceiling 130 12 129 11 81 6 Experience gains losses on plan assets 188 8 58 10 27 7 Experience losses gains on plan liabilities 7 22 4 23 5 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 Other Other CWSF schemes CWSF schemes US$m US$m US$m US$m Plan assets 1,312 307 2,407 403 Defined benefit obligations 1,477 317 2,453 428 Deficit excluding the effects of the asset ceiling 165 10 46 25 Experience gains losses on plan assets 521 24 946 81 Experience losses gains on plan liabilities 27 4 35 2 The best estimate of contributions to the defined benefit schemes for 2013 14 is: Other CWSF schemes Total US$m US$m US$m Employer contributions 2 4 6 Employee contributions 3 3 Based on an employer contribution rate of 33.4% of pensionable earnings plus contributions due under the agreed recovery plan and the estimated PPF levy payable in the year ended 31 March 2013.
Annual report 2012 13 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 28 Equity Accounting policy detailed in note 2.9.
Share capital Number of shares Issued, called-up and fully paid shares of US5 cents each 000 US$m At 1 April 2011, 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2013 2,665,612 133 The aggregate nominal value of the shares allotted in the year was US$nil 2011 12 US$nil.
Included within the number of shares disclosed in the table above are treasury shares and shares held by The Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust the Trust.
No treasury shares of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc were cancelled during the periods presented.
Share buy-back On 21 July 2010, the Groups shareholders approved a resolution at the AGM for the Group to purchase up to 262 million ordinary shares.
This authority to buy-back these shares expired at the conclusion of the Companys AGM on 22 July 2011.
Under the resolution, during the year ended 31 March 2012, the Company purchased 94,726,873 ordinary shares at an average price of 43 pence per share US70 cents per share, with a nominal value of US$5 million, for consideration of US$66 million.
Consideration included stamp duty and commission of US$0.4 million.
At 31 March 2013 a total of 137,488,873 shares were classified as treasury shares 31 March 2012 137,488,873.
This represented 5% of called-up share capital at the beginning of the year 2011 12 5%.
The nominal value and market value of treasury shares held at 31 March 2013 was US$7 million 2011 12 US$7 million and US$88 million 2011 12 US$71 million respectively.
Disclosures in respect of the shares held by the Trust are included in note 29.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, each share other than those held in treasury entitles the holder to one vote at General Meetings of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc.
The Companys shareholders can declare dividends by passing an ordinary resolution but the payment cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
There are no restrictions on the repayment of capital other than those imposed by law.
For further information refer to pages 44 to 45 of the Directors and corporate governance report.
There were no allotments of ordinary shares of US5 cents made during the year 2011 12 no allotments.
Capital management The Group defines capital as equity, borrowings note 22 and cash and cash equivalents note 19.
The Group does not have any externally imposed requirements for managing capital, other than those imposed by Company Law.
The Group is currently undertaking a change in its geographical focus with steps taken during 2012 13 through the agreement to sell the majority of the Monaco & Islands operating segment and the Macau operating segment.
The Boards objective is to maintain a capital structure that supports the Groups strategic objectives, including but not limited to reshaping the portfolio through mergers and acquisitions.
In doing so the Board seeks to: Manage funding and liquidity risk: Optimise shareholder return: and Maintain credit ratings.
This strategy is unchanged from the prior year.
Funding and liquidity risk are reviewed regularly by the Board and managed in accordance with the policies described in note 36.
The Articles of Association of the Company permit aggregate borrowing up to the higher of three times the adjusted capital and reserves of the Group or US$3 billion.
The Group ensures that sufficient funds and distributable reserves are held to allow payments of projected dividends to shareholders and it intends to target a sustainable and progressive dividend that reflects the underlying cash generation and growth outlook of the business.
This process is managed through the Groups budget and longer-term forecasting process.
116 Cable & Wireless Communications Subsequent to year end the Group received total cash proceeds of US$601 million in respect of the Islands sub-group disposal note 38 representing consideration of US$570 million plus US$31 million of the proportionate share of net cash in the disposed businesses attributable to Cable & Wireless Communications.
Proceeds have been used to repay drawn bank facilities, including the revolving credit facility of US$360 million note 22 and other facilities of US$25 million.
In line with the Boards objectives, remaining proceeds will be used for investment opportunities.
In the absence of suitable investment opportunities, the remaining proceeds will be used to fide-leverage the balance sheet.
Both the US dollar secured bonds of US$400 million and US$500 million maturing respectively in 2020 and 2017 maintained a credit rating of Ba2 with Moodys and BB with Standard and Poors.
The unsecured sterling bond repayable in 2019 also maintained its credit rating with Standard and Poors of B.
Foreign currency translation and hedging reserve The foreign currency translation and hedging reserve contains exchange differences on the translation of subsidiaries with a functional currency different to the presentation currency of the Group.
It also includes cumulative exchange differences arising on the translation of hedging instruments.
Capital and Other reserves In 2012 13, Other reserves included a capital redemption reserve of US$152 million 2011 12 US$152 million, a revaluation reserve of US$30 million 2011 12 US$30 million, a fair value reserve of US$20 million 2011 12 US$16 million, a special reserve of US$2,137 million 2011 12 US$2,137 million and a capital reserve of US$987 million 2011 12 US$987 million, less a reserve relating to transactions with non-controlling interests of US$5 million 2011 12 US$1 million.
The special reserve relates to the cancellation of the share premium account of Cable & Wireless Limited formerly Cable and Wireless plc in February 2004.
It will reduce from time to time by the amount of any increase in the paid-up share capital and share premium account of Cable & Wireless Limited after 20 February 2004 resulting from the issue of new shares for cash or other new consideration or upon a capitalisation of distributable reserves.
On 26 March 2010, a court-approved capital reduction became effective which had the effect of creating a capital reserve of US$1,931 million which may be released, in whole or in part, to distributable reserves of the Company at the discretion and upon the resolution of the Board of Directors or a duly constituted committee of the Board of Directors.
During 2011 12, the Board approved the release of US$200 million from the capital reserve to distributable reserves.
29 Share-based payments Accounting policy detailed in note 2.13.
Share option schemes The Group does not currently have any outstanding share option awards over its own shares 2011 12 nil.
There are 1,246,303 outstanding share option awards relating to options granted by Cable and Wireless plc to senior employees 2011 12 7,710,684 outstanding options.
These options were originally granted over Cable and Wireless plc shares at exercise prices between 101 to 154 pence.
All options have vested in full.
Subsequent to the demerger, these options have been redesignated as an option over a stapled unit of one share in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and one share in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc an unrelated company.
The share price of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc at 31 March 2013 and the final share price of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc prior to its takeover by Vodafone Group were such that the obligation for these stapled unit options was US$nil at 31 March 2012 US$nil.
During the year, no options were exercised 2011 12 no options were exercised.
Other equity instrument awards Performance shares Executive Directors and other senior executives can receive awards of performance shares at nil cost.
The vesting of outstanding performance shares granted in June 2010 and 2011 are subject to Cable & Wireless Communications Plc absolute TSR performance conditions see performance conditions for share-based award on page 59.
For the performance shares granted in January 2013, performance is based on a combination of relative TSR against a bespoke comparator group and Earnings per Share EPS performance measures.
A dividend award supplement operates on all these awards.
Dividends that would have been paid on the performance shares which vest will be regarded as having been reinvested in additional shares at the notional date of distribution.
Restricted Share Plan Restricted shares are awarded to senior management and selected other employees, primarily as a retention or a recruitment tool.
Generally, restricted shares vest over periods of one to three years from grant date.
Annual report 2012 13 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 29 Share-based payments continued Cable & Wireless Communications Share Purchase Plan The Company also offered its employees, who are chargeable to income tax under Section 15 Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003, the opportunity to participate in the Cable & Wireless Communications Share Purchase Plan which is a HMRC-approved share incentive plan.
Under the Share Purchase Plan, employees could contribute up to 1,500 or 10% of salary each tax year whichever is the lower, to buy partnership shares in the Company, and the Company offered a matching award of one share for each partnership share purchased.
From 13 April 2012, the Share Purchase Plan is no longer offered.
The existing shares will remain in the plan until such time as they would ordinarily vest in accordance with plan rules.
The Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust The Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust the Trust is a discretionary trust, which was funded by loans from Cable and Wireless plc now Cable & Wireless Limited to acquire shares in Cable and Wireless plc.
Subsequent to the demerger, the shares held by the Trust were converted into one share in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and one share in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc for every share in Cable and Wireless plc held.
At 31 March 2013, the Trust held 34,598,177 shares in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc of which 2,780,411 are shares awarded to the Executive Directors under the Deferred Bonus Plan and which carry dividend rights with a market value of US$22 million.
The remaining shares in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc were sold during the year 2011 12 37,524,230 shares in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and 15,398,747 shares in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc with a market value of US$28 million.
Share awards The equity instruments granted during the year can be summarised as follows: Awards of Awards of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc Cable & Wireless Communications Plc shares granted during 2012 13 shares granted during 2011 12 Weighted Weighted average Features average Features fair value incorporated fair value incorporated Award Shares pence share in schemes Shares pence share in schemes Restricted shares 260,400 42 1 Restricted shares LTIP 9,108,032 44 Share purchase plan scheme matching shares 24,095 31 129,822 41 TSR conditions and EPS performance Performance shares 13,706,646 27 measures 9,237,768 17 TSR conditions 1 Restricted shares LTIP represents the cash LTIP amount, recognised through profit or loss in prior periods which have been converted into restricted shares during the year in respect of senior employees and reclassified to equity.
Only the performance share grants made during 2012 13 and 2011 12 have performance criteria attached.
A fair value exercise was completed at 31 March 2013 for grants made during 2012 13 using the Monte Carlo method.
The Monte Carlo pricing model assumptions used in the pricing of the performance share grants in 2012 13 and 2011 12 were: 2012 13 2011 12 Weighted average share price pence per share 37.70 43.29 Dividend yield 0.0% 5.0% Expected volatility 34.7% 34.0% Risk-free interest rates 0.45% 1.26% Expected life in years 3.0 3.0 The total expense during the year related to equity settled share-based payments was US$4 million 2011 12 US$4 million.
118 Cable & Wireless Communications A summary of the outstanding share awards at 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2012 are as follows: 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 Weighted Weighted average average Number of remaining life Number of remaining life shares rounded to shares rounded to Award outstanding nearest year outstanding nearest year Restricted shares 471,297 2 739,176 1 Restricted shares LTIP 6,909,542 1 8,165,822 1 Share purchase plan scheme matching shares 278,446 3,385,093 Performance shares 29,677,414 2 24,901,564 1 30 Commitments, guarantees and contingent liabilities Commitments Capital commitments at the end of the financial year for the continuing Group relating to the purchase of plant and equipment of US$59 million 2011 12 US$93 million.
No provision has been made for these commitments.
US$11 million 31 March 2012 US$9 million of these commitments relate to the Groups share of the capital commitments of its joint ventures and associates.
Capital commitments at 31 March 2012 included US$21 million in respect of discontinued operations.
In addition, the Group has a number of operating commitments arising in the ordinary course of the Groups business.
The most significant of these relate to network operating and maintenance costs.
In the event of default of another party, the Group may be liable to additional contributions under the terms of the agreements.
The Group leases land and buildings and networks under various lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalations, clauses and renewal rights.
The operating lease expenditure related to the year ended 31 March 2013 is disclosed in note 6a.
The aggregate future minimum lease payments under operating leases are: 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 US$m US$m No later than one year 39 39 Later than one year but not later than five years 84 92 Later than five years 18 39 Total minimum operating lease payments 141 170 The aggregate future minimum lease payments under operating leases at 31 March 2012 contained US$49 million in respect of discontinued operations.
Guarantees and contingent liabilities Guarantees at the end of the year for which no provision has been made in the financial statements are as follows: 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 US$m US$m Trading guarantees 57 47 Other guarantees 475 199 Total guarantees 532 246 Trading guarantees Trading guarantees principally comprise performance bonds for contracts concluded in the normal course of business, guaranteeing that the Group will meet its obligations to complete projects in accordance with the contractual terms and conditions.
The nature of contracts includes projects, service level agreements, installation of equipment, surveys, purchase of equipment and transportation of materials.
The guarantees contain a clause that they will be terminated on final acceptance of work to be done under the contract.
Annual report 2012 13 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 30 Commitments, guarantees and contingent liabilities continued Other guarantees Other guarantees include guarantees for financial obligations principally in respect of property, other leases and letters of credit, and includes guarantees in respect of the demerged business of Cable & Wireless Worldwide.
The Group is party to a contingent funding agreement with the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund CWSF Trustee, under which the Trustee can call for a letter of credit or cash escrow in certain circumstances, such as the breach by the Group of certain financial covenants, the incurrence by the Group of secured debt above an agreed level or the failure to maintain available commitments under the revolving credit facilities of at least US$150 million.
In addition, the Group, as is considered standard practice in such agreements, has given guarantees and indemnities in relation to a number of disposals of subsidiary undertakings.
Consistent with this practice, the Group has given guarantees and indemnities in respect of its disposal of the majority of the Monaco & Islands business.
Generally, liability has been capped at no more than the value of the sales proceeds, although some uncapped indemnities have been given.
The Group also gives warranties and indemnities in relation to certain agreements including facility sharing agreements.
Some of these agreements do not contain liability caps.
The Group has provided guarantees of US$1 million 2011 12 US$2 million to third parties in respect of trading contracts between third parties and the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group.
The Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group a wholly owned subsidiary of Vodafone Group Plc has agreed a fee schedule for the benefit of these guarantees.
To date, the Group has not been required to make any payments in respect of its obligations under these trading guarantees.
Contingent liabilities Under the Separation Agreement, Cable & Wireless Communications and Cable & Wireless Worldwide agree to provide each other with certain customary indemnities on a reciprocal basis in respect of liabilities which the Group may incur but which relate exclusively to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group and vice versa and in respect of an agreed proportion of liabilities which do not relate exclusively to one Group or the other.
Whilst Pender, the Groups former insurance operation, ceased to underwrite new business from April 2003, it has in the past written policies in favour of the Group and third parties.
Potentially significant insurance claims have been made against Pender under certain of these third party policies, which have also given rise to uncertainties and potential disputes with reinsurers.
Significant progress has been made in resolving these claims.
Details of these insurance claims and potential claims are not disclosed as such disclosure may be prejudicial to the outcome of such claims note 34.
Whilst the Group has ceased participation in the Merchant Navy Officers Pension Fund MNOPF, it may be liable for contributions to fund a portion of any funding deficits which may occur in the future.
The Group has made arrangements with MNOPF to pay invoices totalling 1.7 million, plus interest, relating to the actuarial valuations made by the MNOPF trustee as at 31 March 2003, 2006 and 2009, by instalments over the next seven years.
It is possible that the MNOPF trustee may invoice us in the future for additional amounts to the extent that there is an actuarially determined funding deficit.
It is not possible to quantify the amount of any potential additional funding liability at this time.
31 Business combinations and acquisitions of non-controlling interests Accounting policy detailed in note 2.1.
Continuing operations The Bahamas Telecommunications Company On 6 April 2011, the Group acquired 51% of the share capital of the Bahamas Telecommunications Company BTC from the Government of the Commonwealth of The Bahamas.
BTC is the exclusive mobile operator in The Bahamas as well as a leading provider of fixed line and broadband services.
It is complementary to the Groups Caribbean business, LIME, which is the leading full service telecommunications provider in the region.
The cash consideration paid by the Group was US$204 million.
Goodwill of US$63 million was recognised on acquisition.
The net cash outflow on acquisition was US$148 million.
120 Cable & Wireless Communications The Directors have made an assessment of the fair values of the assets and liabilities as at the acquisition date: Provisional Final fair fair value at value at Fair value 30 September 31 March Book value adjustments 2011 Adjustments 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Property, plant and equipment 384 129 255 3 252 Customer contracts and relationships 31 31 31 Trademarks 1 1 1 Available-for-sale financial assets 20 20 20 Trade and other receivables 56 9 47 10 57 Inventories 13 5 8 8 Cash and cash equivalents 59 59 3 56 Trade and other payables 93 10 103 103 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 2 2 2 Provisions 5 5 5 10 Borrowings 34 34 34 Total 403 126 277 1 276 Goodwill arising on the acquisition of BTC included the value of expected synergies resulting from the integration into the existing business and other intangible assets that did not meet the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets as they were unable to be separately identified.
Acquisition costs related to BTC of US$7 million were recorded in other operating expenses in 2011 12.
A non-controlling interest of US$135 million has been recognised in the 2011 12 accounts as at acquisition date measured at cost.
In 2011 12, from the date of its acquisition on 6 April 2011, BTC contributed US$352 million to Group revenue, US$91 million to Group EBITDA and US$13 million to Group profit after tax.
There is no material difference in the results of BTC included in these accounts since acquisition on 6 April 2011 and the results of BTC for the full year from 1 April 2011.
Monaco Telecom Goodwill in connection with the Groups investment in Monaco Telecom SAM increased by US$41 million during the year 2011 12 US$33 million.
The goodwill balance increased as a result of exchange differences and changes in the fair value of the Monaco Telecom put option.
As part of the acquisition of Monaco Telecom a put option was issued note 23.
Changes in the fair value of this put option are treated as contingent consideration and adjusted against goodwill.
The cash outflow in respect of contingent consideration, being the dividend paid to the Principality as the non-controlling shareholder of Monaco Telecom, was US$33 million 2011 12 US$17 million.
2012 13 2011 12 Goodwill US$m US$m At 1 April 205 172 Increase as a result of changes in the fair value of Monaco put option 47 44 Exchange differences 6 11 At 31 March 246 205 Annual report 2012 13 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 32 Related party transactions Transactions with joint ventures and associates All trade transactions with joint ventures and associates arise in the normal course of business and primarily relate to fees for use of the Groups products and services, network and access charges.
Group subsidiaries had transactions with Telecommunications Services of Trinidad and Tobago Ltd during the year.
The transactions were in relation to the sale and purchase of mobile services.
In respect of these transactions, US$3 million has been reported within revenue and US$2 million in cost of sales 2011 12 US$3 million and US$1 million respectively.
During 2011 12 the Group invested US$5 million in Seychelles Cable System Limited which is classified as an associate within discontinued operations note 9.
The Group received dividends of US$6 million from joint ventures and associates 2011 12 US$4 million.
At 31 March 2013, joint ventures and associates owed US$2 million 31 March 2012 US$2 million in respect of trading balances.
There were no other material trade transactions with joint ventures and associates during the year.
Transactions with key management personnel At 31 March 2011, two Directors held bonds issued by Cable & Wireless Limited and Cable and Wireless International Finance B. V. with a nominal value of US$4,211,156 2,630,000 purchased in prior periods.
Both Directors sold their entire holding during the year ended 31 March 2012.
The interest earned on these bonds prior to disposal during the year ended 31 March 2012 was US$55,426 which was fully settled.
A profit of US$790,719 was realised upon the sale of the bonds.
A Directors spouse held bonds issued by Cable and Wireless International Finance BV.
The interest earned on those bonds during the year was US$65,404 of which US$1,037 remained unpaid at 31 March 2013 2011 12 US$66,132 of which US$903 remained unpaid at 31 March 2012.
A Directors spouse held bonds issued by Cable & Wireless Limited.
The Director retired during the year.
These bonds had a nominal value at 31 March 2012 of US$15,967 10,000.
The interest earned on those bonds during the year until retirement was US$344 which has been paid in full 2011 12 US$1,398 of which US$901 remained unpaid at 31 March 2012.
During the prior year, two children of a Director purchased bonds issued by Cable and Wireless International Finance BV.
The interest earned on those bonds during the year was US$68,128 of which US$1,080 remained unpaid at 31 March 2013 2011 12 US$25,410 of which US$940 remained unpaid at 31 March 2012.
During the year a Director purchased a car from the Company for market value.
Director and key management remuneration is disclosed in note 6c.
Transactions with other related parties There are no controlling shareholders of the Group.
There have been no material transactions with the shareholders of the Group.
Pensions contributions to Group schemes are disclosed in note 27.
Other than the parties disclosed above, the Group has no other material related parties.
33 Licences and operating agreements In all countries in which it operates, the Group holds licences to operate or operating agreements.
These licences and operating agreements take a variety of forms and their terms, rights and obligations vary significantly.
The Group assumes that it will renew these licences and operating agreements as they expire.
Previous history indicates this is the most likely outcome.
The Group is currently in the process of renewing its licences and operating agreements in Antigua & Barbuda and Montserrat.
The Group does not have any concession agreements with governments that fall within the scope of IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements.
On demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business, the Cable & Wireless brand was transferred to a joint venture entity owned by, and for the continuing use of, the Cable & Wireless Communications and Cable & Wireless Worldwide Groups.
As part of this transfer, Cable & Wireless Communications received a royalty-free licence, granting rights to use the Cable & Wireless brand in all of the Groups jurisdictions with the exception of Macau and North and West Africa, which are branded differently.
Further, the Group retains a licence to use the Cable & Wireless logo globally.
These licence arrangements remain in force despite Vodafone Group Plcs acquisition of Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group in July 2012.
There were no other significant changes to the terms of the licences held by the Groups subsidiaries or operating agreements with governments during the periods presented.
122 Cable & Wireless Communications 34 Legal proceedings In the ordinary course of business, the Group is involved in litigation proceedings, regulatory claims, investigations and reviews.
The facts and circumstances relating to particular cases are evaluated in determining whether it is more likely than not that there will be a future outflow of funds and, once established, whether a provision relating to a specific case is necessary or sufficient.
Accordingly, significant management judgement relating to provisions and contingent liabilities is required since the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict.
The Group does not expect the ultimate resolution of the actions to which it is a party to have a significant adverse impact on the financial position of the Group.
35 Subsidiaries and joint ventures and associates Accounting policy detailed in note 2.1.
The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those companies whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affect the financial statements.
Ownership of ordinary shares Country of Area of Continuing operations % incorporation operation Subsidiaries 4 The Bahamas Telecommunications Company Ltd 51 The Bahamas The Bahamas Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd 82 Jamaica Jamaica 1 Cable & Wireless Panama, SA 49 Panama Panama Cable & Wireless Barbados Ltd 81 Barbados Barbados Cable and Wireless West Indies Ltd 100 England Caribbean 3 Monaco Telecom SAM 49 Monaco Monaco Cable & Wireless Ltd 100 England England Sable International Finance Ltd 100 Cayman England Cable and Wireless International Finance BV 100 Netherlands England Joint ventures and associates Cable & Wireless Trade Mark Management Ltd 50 England N A 2 Telecommunications Services of Trinidad and Tobago Ltd 49 Trinidad and Tobago Trinidad and Tobago 1 The Cable & Wireless Communications Group regards this company as a subsidiary because it controls the majority of the Board of Directors through a shareholders agreement.
2 This company is audited by a firm other than KPMG Audit plc and its international member firms.
3 The Cable & Wireless Communications Group holds an economic interest of 55% in Monaco Telecom SAM via a contractual arrangement.
See below for further discussion.
On 18 June 2004, the Group acquired 55% of Monaco Telecom, a Monaco-based telecommunications service provider, from Vivendi Universal.
Simultaneously with the acquisition, Cable & Wireless Communications transferred legal ownership of 6% of the shares of Monaco Telecom to an unrelated third party.
The Group contractually retained voting and economic rights in the shares as part of the arrangement.
In addition, the 6% interest is subject to certain put and call options that, together with the retained voting and economic rights, provide full management control of Monaco Telecom to the Group.
The Group has also entered into a shareholders agreement with the Principality of Monaco Principality that contains, among other provisions, mutual pre-emption rights on transfer of shares and certain other limited rights in favour of the Principality.
The Principality has a put option entitling it to put its 45% shareholding in Monaco Telecom to the Group in one or several instalments until 30 April 2019.
The exercise price under the put option is fair market value, taking into account the nature of the minority stake in Monaco Telecom note 23.
Full details of all subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates and trade investments will be attached to the Companys next Annual Return, to be filed with the Registrar of Companies in England and Wales.
Annual report 2012 13 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 36 Financial risk management Treasury policy The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including currency risk and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
Day to day management of treasury activities is delegated to the Groups treasury function Treasury, within specified financial limits for each type of transaction and counterparty.
To the extent that subsidiaries undertake treasury transactions, these are governed by Group policies and delegated authorities.
Material subsidiary positions are monitored by Treasury.
Where appropriate, transactions are reported to the Board.
All subsidiaries are required to report details of their cash and debt positions to Treasury on a monthly basis.
The key responsibilities of Treasury include funding, investment of surplus cash and the management of interest rate and foreign currency risk.
The majority of the Groups cash resources including facilities and borrowings are managed centrally by Treasury.
The Group may use derivatives including forward foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and options, where appropriate, in the management of its foreign currency and interest rate exposures.
The use of these instruments is in accordance with strategies agreed from time to time by Treasury and subject to policies approved by the Board.
Derivatives are not used for trading or speculative purposes and derivative transactions and positions are monitored and reported by Treasury on a regular basis and are subject to policies adopted by the Board.
Exchange rate risk The Group trades in many countries and a proportion of its revenue is generated in currencies other than US dollars.
The Group is exposed to movements in exchange rates in relation to non-dollar currency payments including external dividends, the London corporate centre costs and pensions, dividend income from foreign currency denominated subsidiaries, reported profits of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries and the net asset carrying value of non-US dollar investments.
Exchange risk is managed centrally by the London corporate centre on a matching cash flow basis including forecast foreign currency cash repatriation inflows from subsidiaries and forecast foreign currency payments.
See note 2.3 for key exchange rates used.
Where appropriate, the Group manages its exposure to movements in exchange rates on a net basis and uses forward foreign exchange contracts and other derivative and financial instruments to reduce the exposures created where currencies do not naturally offset in the short term.
The Group will undertake hedges to minimise the exposure to individual transactions that create significant foreign exchange exposures for the Group where appropriate.
Where cost-effective and possible, foreign subsidiaries are financed in their domestic currency to minimise the impact of translation of foreign currency denominated borrowings.
As part of the overall policy of managing the exposure arising from foreign exchange movements relating to the net carrying value of overseas investments, the Group may, from time to time, elect to match certain foreign currency liabilities against the carrying value of foreign investments.
The reported profits of the Group are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year.
Overseas earnings are predominately in US dollars or currencies linked to the US dollar.
However the Group also has overseas earnings in other currencies.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk in relation to financial instruments which are not in the functional currency of the entity that holds them.
In broad terms, based on financial assets and liabilities as at 31 March 2013 the impact of a unilateral 10% weakening of the US dollar would have been to decrease profit from continuing operations by approximately US$36 million at 31 March 2012 US$30 million.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to movements in interest rates on its surplus cash balances and variable rate loans although there is a degree of offset between the two.
Treasury may seek to reduce volatility by fixing a proportion of this interest rate exposure whilst taking account of prevailing market conditions as appropriate.
At 31 March 2013, 64% 31 March 2012 86% of the Groups loans were at a fixed rate.
A reduction in interest rates would have an unfavourable impact upon the fair value of the Groups fixed rate loans.
However, no debt is held for trading purposes and it is intended that it will be kept in place until maturity.
As a result, there is no exposure to fair value loss on fixed rate borrowings and, as such, its effect has not been modelled.
A one percentage point increase in interest rates will have a US$2 million 2011 12 US$3 million impact on the income received from the surplus cash balances of the Group and a US$6 million 2011 12 US$2 million impact on the floating rate loans of the Group.
The impact on equity is limited to the impact on profit or loss.
124 Cable & Wireless Communications Credit risk Cash deposits and similar financial instruments give rise to credit risk, which represents the loss that would be recognised if a counterparty failed to perform as contracted.
The carrying amount of the financial assets of the Group represents the maximum credit exposure of the Group.
Management seeks to reduce this credit risk by ensuring the counterparties to all but a small proportion of the Groups financial instruments are the core relationship banks.
These banks are awarded a maximum credit limit based on ratings by Standard & Poors and Moodys, the level of the banks credit default swap CDS and its associated level of tier one capital.
The credit limit assigned to counterparties is monitored on a continuing basis.
These limits reflect exposure for the Group as a whole to any one counterparty in a range of US$25 million to US$100 million.
The Group Treasury policy approved by the Board contain limits on exposure and prescribes the types of instrument used for investment of funds.
Credit risk on receivables is discussed in note 17.
Liquidity risk The Group ensures that the operating units manage their own operational liquidity supported by the London corporate centre, which manages its own liquidity to meet its financial obligations of servicing and repaying external debt, external dividends, London costs and strategic initiatives.
The principal source of liquidity for the London corporate centre is repatriation cash inflows from the operating units supported by bank finance, bond issuances and asset disposals.
At 31 March 2013, the Group had cash and cash equivalents of US$152 million.
These amounts are highly liquid and are a significant component of the Groups overall liquidity and capital resources, which also includes the undrawn revolving credit facilities of US$240 million.
Liquidity forecasts are produced on a regular basis to ensure the utilisation of current facilities is optimised, to ensure covenant compliance and that medium-term liquidity is maintained and for the purpose of identifying long-term strategic funding requirements.
The Directors also regularly assess the balance of capital and debt funding of the Group.
Approximately 15% of the Groups cash is invested in short-term bank deposits and money market funds 2011 12 40%.
Certain foreign subsidiaries operate in jurisdictions which may restrict the ability to repatriate cash to the Group from time to time.
Where restrictions are severe, local cash balances are excluded from cash and cash equivalents.
37 Reconciliation of non-GAAP measures Reconciliation of operating profit to EBITDA 2012 13 2011 12 Continuing operations US$m US$m Total operating profit 192 18 Depreciation and amortisation 275 277 Net other operating income expense 4 11 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 10 26 Exceptional items 136 310 EBITDA 589 590 The Group uses EBITDA as a key performance measure as it reflects the underlying operational performance of the businesses.
EBITDA is not a measure defined under IFRS.
It is calculated as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, net other operating and nonoperating income and expense and exceptional items.
Annual report 2012 13 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 37 Reconciliation of non-GAAP measures continued Reconciliation of basic Earnings Per Share EPS to Adjusted EPS Continuing Group Total Group 2012 13 2011 12 2012 13 2011 12 US cents US cents US cents US cents Loss per share attributable to owners of the Parent Company 3.4 7.8 0.8 3.1 1 Exceptional items 4.3 9.4 4.3 9.4 1 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.5 Transaction costs and loss gain on disposal of businesses 0.7 0.3 1.1 0.3 Adjusted EPS attributable to owners of the Parent Company 1.9c 1.7c 6.6c 6.5c Weighted average number of shares million 2,494 2,506 2,494 2,506 1 Excluding amounts attributable to non-controlling interests.
Adjusted EPS is before exceptional items, transaction costs, loss gain on disposal of businesses and amortisation of acquired intangibles.
Reconciliation of Return on Invested Capital ROIC 2012 13 2011 12 Continuing operations US$m US$m Total pre-exceptional operating profit 328 328 Average total assets 3,714 3,702 Average current liabilities 1,618 1,522 Average invested capital 2,096 2,180 1 Average adjusted invested capital 1,801 1,779 Return on Invested Capital 18.2% 18.4% 1 Average adjusted invested capital for continuing operations is after deducting deferred tax assets: retirement benefit assets: the goodwill balance attributable to the Monaco Telecom put option less the current portion of the related put option financial liability : interest bearing assets: total assets and current liabilities for discontinued operations: and adding back interest bearing current liabilities.
The Group uses ROIC to measure the effectiveness of our capital investments.
ROIC is not a measure defined under IFRS.
We define ROIC as total operating profit before exceptional items divided by average adjusted invested capital.
ROIC is calculated on the basis of continuing operations.
During the period, the Group has continued to refine its use of ROIC and we now calculate it on the basis of average, rather than opening, invested capital and on a pre-tax basis.
Prior year figures have been re-presented on the same basis.
126 Cable & Wireless Communications 38 Events after the reporting period Accounts approval These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 21 May 2013 and authorised for issue.
Monaco & Islands disposal On 3 April 2013, the Group completed the sale of the majority of the Islands sub-group to Batelco Group Batelco as part of a transaction described in note 9.
Following receipt of the required consents and approvals the Group completed the sale of its businesses in the Maldives, the Channel Islands, Isle of Man, South Atlantic and Diego Garcia.
Regulatory approval for the transfer of CWCs business in the Seychelles has not yet been obtained.
Batelco also acquired a 25% shareholding in Compagnie Monegasque fide Communication SAM CMC, the holding company of the Groups interest in Monaco Telecom.
As described in note 9, a put option over the 25% shareholding in CMC was also issued to Batelco on 3 April 2013.
The Group will account for the put option as a financial liability using the anticipated acquisition method, as if it had been exercised.
On 3 April 2013, the Group received total cash proceeds of US$601 million in respect of these transactions.
This represents consideration of $470 million for the Islands sub-group plus $31 million of net cash in the disposed businesses attributable to CWC, together with US$100 million in respect of the 25% shareholdings in CMC.
In April 2013, the cash proceeds were used by the Group to repay US$360 million of the revolving credit facility note 22 and US$25 million of other borrowings.
Strategic alliance with Columbus Networks On 13 May 2013, the Group announced it had entered into a strategic alliance with Columbus Networks Ltd Columbus to develop its international wholesale capacity business.
The alliance will initially operate by providing joint sales and marketing services for each of CWCs and Columbus international wholesale capacity services.
Columbus has a 72.5% majority share in, and management control of, the formal arrangement and CWC has a 27.5% share.
The alliance will be broadened within the next two years with Columbus and CWC contributing their sub-sea and related assets into a new company with the same respective shareholdings, subject to obtaining regulatory approvals and certain other conditions being met.
Until then, Columbus and CWC will retain complete ownership and control of their respective existing networks.
The transaction is not expected to have a material impact on the Groups earnings.
Group assets subject to the joint venture arrangement had a book value of US$108 million, and recorded a loss before tax of US$1 million in the year to 31 March 2013.
