Cost-effective Ways to Buy and Hold Shares in Monks Cost-effective Ways to Buy and Hold Shares in Monks Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited offers a number of Sell part or all of your holdings, except where there is more plans that enable you to buy and hold shares in Monks costthan one Holder: efficiently.
Purchases and sales are normally subject to a dealing Switch between investment trusts, except where there is price spread and Government stamp duty of 0.5% is payable on more than one Holder: and purchases.
Update certain personal details e. g. address and telephone The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan number.
No initial charge Please note that a bare trust cannot be opened via OMS.
A bare trust application form must be completed.
Certain restrictions No annual wrapper charge apply where there is more than one holder.
Normally cheaper than dealing through a stockbroker Further information Invest a lump sum from 250 or monthly from just 30 If you would like more information on any of the plans described, No maximum investment limits please contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team.
See Stop and start saving at any time with no charge contact details on page 53.
Twice weekly dealing usually Tuesday and Friday Risks A withdrawal charge of just 22 Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA Monks is a listed UK company.
As a result, the value of its shares and any income from those shares can fall as well as rise and Tax-efficient investment investors may not get back the amount invested.
No set-up charge As Monks invests in overseas securities, changes in the rates of Flat rate annual management charge currently of 32.50 VAT exchange may also cause the value of your investment and any Lump sum investment from 2,000 currently up to a income it may pay to go down or up.
maximum of 11,520 each tax year Market values for securities which have become difficult to trade Save monthly from 100 may not be readily available, and there can be no assurance that any value assigned to such securities will accurately reflect the A withdrawal charge of just 22 price Monks might receive upon their sale.
ISA Transfers Monks invests in emerging markets where difficulties in dealing, Transfer existing ISAs from other plan managers into the settlement and custody could arise, resulting in a negative impact Baillie Gifford ISA on the value of your investment.
Consolidate your plans into a managed global investment Monks invests in corporate bonds which are generally perceived Minimum transfer value 2,000 to carry a greater possibility of capital loss than investment in, for example, higher rated UK government bonds.
Bonds issued by The Baillie Gifford Childrens Savings Plan companies and governments may be adversely affected by An excellent way for parents, grandparents or other adults to changes in interest rates and expectations of inflation.
invest for a child Monks has borrowed money to make further investments No initial charge sometimes known as gearing.
The risk is that when this money is repaid by the Company, the value of the investments may not No annual wrapper charge be enough to cover the borrowing and interest costs, and the The option of a designated account or a bare trust in favour of Company will make a loss.
If the Companys investments fall in the child value, any borrowings will increase the amount of this loss.
Monks Flexible investment options: lump sum from 100 or monthly can buy back and cancel its own shares.
The risks from saving from just 25 borrowing are increased when the Company buys back and cancels its shares.
A withdrawal charge of just 22 Monks use of derivatives may impact on its performance.
Online Management Service As the aim of Monks is to achieve capital growth you should not You can also open and manage your Share Plan Childrens expect a significant, or steady, annual income from the Company.
Savings Plan and or ISA online, through our secure Online Management Service OMS which can be accessed through the You should note that tax rates and reliefs may change at any time Baillie Gifford website www.
As well as and their value depends on your circumstances.
being able to view the details of your plan online, the service also Details of other risks that apply to investment in these savings allows you to: vehicles are contained in the product brochures.
Obtain current valuations: Make lump sum investments, except where there is more than one Holder: 52 Annual Report 2013
