Further Shareholder Information Further Shareholder Information Monks is an investment trust.
Investment trusts offer Analysis of Shareholders at 30 April investors the following: 2013 2013 2012 2012 participation in a diversified portfolio of shares: Name Number % Number % constant supervision by experienced professional managers: Institutions 89,338,053 37.2 85,238,554 33.3 and Intermediaries 111,690,844 46.5 128,865,675 50.3 the Company is free from capital gains tax on capital profits Individuals 16,482,036 6.8 19,854,066 7.8 realised within its portfolio although investors are still liable for Baillie Gifford capital gains tax on profits when selling their investment.
They can be bought by placing an order with a stockbroker, by asking a professional adviser to do so, or through register to receive communications from the Company, the Baillie Gifford savings vehicles see page 52 for details.
If you including the Annual Report, in electronic format: are interested in investing directly in Monks, you can do so online.
There are a number of companies offering real time online dealing update bank mandates and change address details: services.
use online dealing services: and Sources of Further Information on the Company pay dividends directly into your overseas bank account in your The price of shares is quoted daily in the Financial Times and can chosen local currency.
also be found on the Companys website at To take advantage of this service, please log in at www.
co. uk and enter your Shareholder www.
co. uk and on other financial websites.
Reference Number and Company Code this information can be Key Dates found on the last dividend voucher or your share certificate.
Ordinary shareholders normally receive two dividends in respect Dividend Reinvestment Plan of each financial year.
An interim dividend is paid in January and a Computershare operate a Dividend Reinvestment Plan which can final dividend is paid in August.
The AGM is normally held at the be used to buy additional shares instead of receiving your start of August.
dividend via cheque or into your bank account.
For further information log on to www.
co. uk and follow the Capital Gains Tax instructions or telephone 0870 707 1694.
For Capital Gains Tax indexation purposes, the market value of an ordinary share in the Company as at 31 March 1982 as adjusted Electronic Proxy Voting for the five for one share split in July 2001 was 14.1p.
If you hold stock in your own name you can choose to vote by returning proxies electronically at www.
Share Register Enquiries Computershare Investor Services PLC maintains the share If you have any questions about this service please contact register on behalf of the Company.
In the event of queries Computershare on 0870 707 1170. regarding shares registered in your own name, please contact the CREST Proxy Voting Registrars on 0870 707 1170.
This helpline also offers an automated self-service functionality available 24 hours a day, If you are a user of the CREST system including a CREST 7 days a week which allows you to: Personal Member, you may appoint one or more proxies or give an instruction to a proxy by having an appropriate CREST hear the latest share price: message transmitted.
For further information please refer to the confirm your current share holding balance: CREST Manual.
confirm your payment history: and The financial statements have been approved by the Directors of The Monks Investment Trust PLC.
Baillie Gifford Savings order Change of Address, Dividend Bank Mandate and Stock Management Limited is the ISA Manager of the Baillie Gifford Transfer forms.
Investment Trust ISA, and the Manager of the Baillie Gifford You can also check your holding on the Registrars web site at Investment Trust Share Plan and Childrens Savings Plan.
They also offer a free, secure share Gifford Savings Management Limited is wholly owned by Baillie management website service which allows you to: Gifford & Co.
Both are authorised and regulated by the Financial view your share portfolio and see the latest market price of Conduct Authority.
Baillie Gifford only provides information about your shares: its products and does not provide investment advice.
The staff of Baillie Gifford and Monks Directors may hold shares in Monks calculate the total market price of each shareholding: and may buy or sell such shares from time to time.
view price histories and trading graphs: The Monks Investment Trust PLC 51
