Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements e Income 1 Principal Accounting Policies i Income from equity investments, is brought into account on the A summary of the principal accounting policies, which are unchanged date on which the investments are quoted ex-dividend or, where from the prior year and have been applied consistently, are set out no ex-dividend date is quoted, when the Companys right to below.
Equity investment income includes a Basis of Accounting distributions from Collective Investment Schemes, other than The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis those that relate to equalisation which are treated as capital items.
under the historical cost convention, modified to include the ii Interest from fixed interest securities including the zero coupon revaluation of fixed asset investments and derivatives which are element of the swap rate linked note is recognised on an effective recorded at fair value through profit or loss, and on the assumption yield basis.
that approval as an investment trust will continue to be granted.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with The iii Unfranked investment income and overseas dividends include the Companies Act 2006, applicable UK accounting standards and with taxes deducted at source.
the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of iv Franked investment income is stated net of tax credits.
Investment Trust Companies issued in January 2009. v Underwriting commission and interest receivable on deposits are In order to better reflect the activities of the Company and in recognised on an accruals basis.
accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary vi If scrip is taken in lieu of dividends in cash, the net amount of the information which analyses the Income Statement between items of a cash dividend declared is credited to the revenue account.
Any revenue and capital nature has been presented.
excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the cash dividend foregone is recognised as capital.
Companys balance sheet when it becomes a party to the contractual f Expenses provisions of the instrument.
All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis and are charged The Directors consider the Companys functional currency to be through the revenue column of the Income Statement except where sterling as the Companys shareholders are predominantly based in the they relate directly to the acquisition or disposal of an investment, in UK and the Company is subject to the UKs regulatory environment.
which case they are added to the cost of the investment or deducted b Investments from the sale proceeds.
Investment purchases and sales are recognised on a trade date g Long Term Borrowings and Finance Costs basis.
Expenses incidental to acquisition are included in purchase Long term borrowings are carried in the balance sheet at amortised cost and expenses incidental to sale are deducted from proceeds of cost, representing the cumulative amount of net proceeds after issue, sale.
Gains and losses on investments are recognised in the Income plus accrued finance costs.
The finance costs of such borrowings are Statement as capital items.
allocated to the revenue column of the Income Statement at a Investments are designated as held at fair value through profit or loss constant rate on the carrying amount.
Issue costs are written off at a on initial recognition and are measured at subsequent reporting dates constant rate over the life of the borrowings.
Gains and losses on the at fair value.
The fair value of listed investments is bid value or, in the repurchase or early settlement of debt is wholly charged to capital.
case of FTSE 100 constituents or holdings on certain recognised h Deferred Taxation overseas exchanges, at last traded prices.
Listed investments include Deferred taxation is provided on all timing differences which have Open Ended Investment Companies OEICs authorised in the UK: originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date, calculated on these are valued at closing prices and are classified in the list of a non-discounted basis at the tax rates expected to apply when the investments according to the principal geographical area of the timing differences reverse, based on what has been enacted or underlying holdings.
The fair value of unlisted investments uses substantively enacted, relevant to the benefit or liability.
Deferred tax valuation techniques, determined by the Directors, based upon latest assets are recognised only to the extent that it is more likely than not dealing prices, stockbroker valuations, net asset values and other that there will be taxable profits from which underlying timing information, as appropriate.
c Derivatives i Dividend Distributions The Company may use derivatives for the purpose of efficient Interim dividends are recognised in the period in which they are paid portfolio management including reducing, transferring or eliminating and final dividends are recognised in the period in which the dividends risk in its investments and protection against currency risk and to are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Such instruments are recognised on the date j Foreign Currencies of the contract that creates the Companys obligation to pay or receive cash flows and are measured as financial assets or liabilities at Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted at the rate fair value at subsequent reporting dates, while the relevant contracts ruling at the time of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities remain open.
The fair value is determined by reference to the open and fixed asset investment in foreign currencies are translated at the market value of the contract.
closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Forward foreign exchange contracts are valued at the forward rate ruling at the Where the investment rationale for the use of derivatives is to hedge balance sheet date.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in specific risks pertaining to the Companys portfolio composition, exchange rate subsequent to the date of the transaction is included hedge accounting will only be adopted where the derivative as an exchange gain or loss in the Income Statement as capital or instrument relates specifically to a single item, or group of items, of revenue as appropriate.
equal and opposite financial exposure, and where the derivative instrument has been explicitly designated as a hedge of such item s k Capital Reserve at the date of initial recognition.
In all other circumstances changes in Gains and losses on realisation of investments, changes in the fair the fair value of derivative instruments are recognised immediately in value of investments held, exchange differences of a capital nature the Income Statement as capital or revenue as appropriate.
and the amount by which the market value of assets and liabilities d Cash and Liquid Resources differs from their book value are dealt with in this reserve.
Purchases of the Companys own shares for cancellation are also funded from Cash and liquid resources includes cash in hand, deposits held at call this reserve.
with banks and other short term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
