A400 Whitehall Regent Street Haymarket St. Jamess Street Piccadily Circus Trafalgar Square Charing Cross Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice of Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Institute of Directors, 116 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5ED on Friday, 2 August 2013, at 11.00 am.
If you have any queries as to how to vote or how to attend the meeting, please call us on 0800 027 0133.
Baillie Gifford may record your call.
INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS Notice is hereby given that the eighty-fourth Annual General To consider and, if thought fit, pass resolution 11 as a special Meeting of The Monks Investment Trust PLC will be held at the resolution: Institute of Directors, 116 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5ED on Friday, 11.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, but without 2 August 2013, at 11.00 am for the following purposes: prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof, the Company be authorised, in accordance with Ordinary Business section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to make To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the ordinary resolutions: Act of ordinary shares of 5p each in the capital of the 1.
To receive and adopt the Financial Statements of the Company Shares, provided that: Company for the year to 30 April 2013 with the Reports of the a the maximum aggregate number of Shares hereby Directors and of the Independent Auditors thereon.
authorised to be purchased shall be 34,572,615, being 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year to approximately 14.99% of the issued share capital on the 30 April 2013. date on which this resolution is passed: 3.
b the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 5p exclusive of expenses : 4.
To re-elect Mr JGD Ferguson as a Director.
c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be 5.
To re-elect Ms CC Ferguson as a Director.
paid for a Share shall not be more than the higher of: 6.
To re-elect Mr EM Harley as a Director.
i 5 per cent above the average closing price on the 7.
To re-elect Mr DCP McDougall as a Director.
London Stock Exchange of an ordinary share over the 8.
To elect Mr KS Sternberg as a Director.
five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and 9.
To reappoint  LLP as Independent Auditors.
ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the 10.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of London Stock Exchange: and the Independent Auditors.
d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed by the Company in general meeting, the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in respect of the financial year ending 30 April 2014, save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase Shares under such authority which will or might be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
By order of the Board Baillie Gifford & Co Managers and Secretaries 27 June 2013 48 Annual Report 2013 Piccadily Pall Mall King St St James Sq Pall Mall East The Mall Strand Notice of Annual General Meeting Notes 5.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that 1.
As a member you are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available exercise all or any of your rights to attend, speak and vote at special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in must attend the AGM to represent you.
You may appoint relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if exercise rights attached to different shares.
You can only the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or appoint a proxy using the procedure set out in these notes sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service and the notes to the proxy form.
You may not use any provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting electronic address provided either in this notice or any related service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary documents including the circular and proxy form to to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the communicate with the Company for any purpose other than CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, those expressly stated.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST 2.
To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, proxy, together with any power of attorney or other authority to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical under which it is signed or a certified copy thereof, must be limitations of the CREST system and timings.
received by post or during normal business hours only by 6.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction hand at the Registrars of the Company at Computershare in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
com no later than two days excluding non-working days before the time of 7.
The return of a completed proxy form or other instrument of the meeting or any adjourned meeting.
proxy will not prevent you attending the AGM and voting in person if you wish.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may 8.
Shareholders participating in the Baillie Gifford Investment do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Trust Share Plan, Childrens Savings Plan or the Baillie Gifford Manual and or by logging on to the website Investment Trust ISA who wish to vote and or attend the www.
CREST personal members or meeting must complete and return the enclosed reply-paid other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST Form of Direction.
members who have appointed a voting service provider s, 9.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service Regulations 2001 and Section 311 of the Companies Act provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on 2006 the Company specifies that to be entitled to attend and their behalf.
vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of 4.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the the determination by the Company of the votes they may CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message cast, shareholders must be registered in the Register of a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated Members of the Company no later than the close of business in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds two days excluding non-working days prior to the specifications, and must contain the information required for commencement of the AGM or any adjourned meeting.
such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant message, regardless of whether it constitutes the deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction person to attend and vote at the meeting.
given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be 10.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to registrar ID 3RA50 no later than two days excluding nonenjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an working days before the time of the meeting or any agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom adjournment.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual to the message by the CREST Application Host from which General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy the Companys registrar is able to retrieve the message by appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in notes 1 and 2 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in those notes can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 49 Notice of Annual General Meeting 12.
The members of the Company may require the Company to publish, on its website, without payment a statement which is also passed to the auditors setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys financial statements, including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit.
The Company will be required to do so once it has received such requests from either members representing at least 5% of the total voting rights of the Company or at least 100 members who have a relevant right to vote and hold shares in the Company on which there has been paid up an average sum per member of at least 100.
Such requests must be made in writing and must state your full name and address and be sent to the Company at Calton Square, 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh, EH1 3AN.
Information regarding the Annual General Meeting, including information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, is available from the Companys page of the Managers website at www.
Members have the right to ask questions at the meeting in accordance with Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006.
As at 14 June 2013 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital consisted of 230,637,859 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 14 June 2013 were 230,637,859 votes.
Any person holding 3% or more of the total voting rights of the Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman of the meeting as his proxy will need to ensure that both he and his proxy complies with their respective disclosure obligations under the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
