Statement of Directors Responsibilities Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the The Directors have delegated responsibility to the Managers for Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in the maintenance and integrity of the Companys page of the accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the financial statements in accordance with Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, within the Directors and Management section confirm that, to the United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under best of their knowledge: company law the Directors must not approve the financial the financial statements, which have been prepared in statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the net return of Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial Accounting Practice, give a true and fair view of the assets, statements, the Directors are required to: liabilities, financial position and net return of the Company: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them and consistently: the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development make judgements and accounting estimates that are and performance of the business and the position of the reasonable and prudent: Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements By order of the Board respectively: and JGD Ferguson prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Chairman unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will 18 June 2013 continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 25 Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report The Board has prepared this report, in accordance with the Directors Service Contracts requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
An ordinary resolution It is the Boards policy that none of the Directors has a service for the approval of this report will be put to the members at the contract.
All of the Directors have been provided with forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
appointment letters and the terms of their appointment provide that Directors shall retire and be subject to election at the first The law requires the Companys Auditors to audit certain of the Annual General Meeting after their appointment.
Where disclosures have been audited, they Directors shall retire annually and, if they wish, offer themselves are indicated as such.
The Auditors opinion is included in their for re-election.
There is no notice period and no provision for report on page 27. compensation upon early termination of appointment.
Remuneration Committee Company Performance The Company has four Directors, all of whom are non-executive.
The following graph compares the share price total return There is no separate remuneration committee and the Board as a assuming all dividends are reinvested to Monks ordinary whole considers changes to Directors fees from time to time.
shareholders compared with the total shareholder return on a Baillie Gifford & Co, who have been appointed by the Board as notional investment made up of shares in the component parts of Managers and Secretaries, provide advice and comparative the FTSE All-Share Index.
This index was chosen for comparison information when the Board considers the level of Directors fees.
purposes as it is a widely used measure of performance for UK Policy on Directors Fees listed companies FTSE World Index, which is the Companys The Boards policy is that the remuneration of Directors should be comparative index, is provided for information purposes only.
set at a reasonable level that is commensurate with the duties Performance Graph and responsibilities of the role and consistent with the requirement figures rebased to 100 at 30 April 2008 to attract and retain Directors of the appropriate quality and experience.
It should also reflect the experience of the Board as a 160 whole, be fair and should take account of the level of fees paid by comparable investment trusts.
This policy will continue for the 140 year ending 30 April 2014 and subsequent years.
120 The fees for the non-executive Directors are determined within an aggregate limit set out in the Companys Articles of Association, 100 which currently stands at 200,000.
Non-executive Directors are 80 not eligible for any other remuneration apart from the reimbursement of allowable expenses.
60 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 The Board reviewed Directors fees during the year and Cumulative years to 30 April concluded that they should remain unchanged at 37,500 for the Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream.
Chairman and 25,000 for the other Directors.
Directors fees Monks share price were last increased on 1 November 2011.
Directors remuneration FTSE All-Share for the year is shown in the table below.
FTSE World Index All figures are total returns assuming net dividends are reinvested.
Directors Remuneration for the Year audited Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
2013 2012 Approval Directors who served during the year The Directors Remuneration Report was approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf on 18 June 2013.
