Five Year Summary Five Year Summary The following charts indicate how an investment in Monks has performed relative to its comparative index and its underlying net asset value over the five year period to 30 April 2013.
5 Year Total Return Performance Discount to Net Asset Value figures rebased to 100 at 30 April 2008 plotted on a monthly basis Annual Net Asset Value and Share Price Total Returns Relative Annual Net Asset Value and Share Price Total Returns relative to the FTSE World Index total return Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 03 Chairmans Statement Chairmans Statement Performance Investment Activity Monks continues to pursue its objective of long term capital Over the course of the year there was a net disinvestment of appreciation.
However, the performance of the portfolio and the 145.2m comprising 115.5m in net sales of equities and 29.7m change in share price have lagged behind a rise in broad in net sales of bonds.
There were net purchases of equities in stockmarket indices that has been largely driven by the search for North America and net sales in all other regions.
The proceeds of yield rather than long term growth potential.
Nevertheless, the net these sales were mainly used to repay debt and repurchase asset value per share did close at an all time year end high.
A total of 80.0m of debt was repaid during the year, comprising a 40m short term loan and the 40m The Board has undertaken with the Managers a thorough review 11% debenture on maturity.
of the causes of the recent poor performance and action has been taken to address them.
Tom Walsh has been appointed The level of gearing is managed in various ways, including through deputy manager to work alongside Gerald Smith and there have the sale of futures and the purchase of options as well as been changes to the stock selection process.
There are adjustments to the level of borrowings and cash.
At the start of encouraging signs that these are starting to bear fruit.
the year the effective gearing, taking into account futures and options positions, was minus 7% of shareholders funds.
Effective In the year to 30 April 2013 the net asset value total return, with gearing was moved to a neutral position in October in light of the borrowings at fair value, was 7.8% and the share price total return diminished risk of a fall in markets in the near term following the was 6.2%.
While this is a positive return it compares unfavourably commitment of the European Central Bank to use its balance with the total return of 21.4% on the FTSE World Index.
The sheet to support troubled eurozone countries.
At the year end second half of the Companys year was better than the first.
In the effective gearing was 1%.
first half the net asset total return was minus 5.9% and the share price total return was minus 8.0% while in the second half the Buybacks and Discount figures were 14.6% and 15.4% respectively.
The total return on During the year to 30 April 2013 52.3m was spent on the the comparative index was 2.7% in the first half and 18.3% in the repurchase of 15.8m shares, representing 6.2% of the shares in second.
issue at the start of the year.
Since the power to buy back shares The Managers Portfolio Review on pages 6 to 8 contains more was first granted in 1999, 147.6m shares have been bought back detail on the individual investments that made the greatest positive and cancelled, representing 38% of the share capital at the start and negative contributions to performance.
The Company was of that period.
The Board will continue to buy back shares if less than fully invested during much of the year and the costs of suitable opportunities appear.
insuring against falling markets during a period when markets rose The discount at fair value widened to 13.0% from 11.6% over adversely affected performance relative to the comparative index, the course of the year.
The Board monitors the level of discount but this was not the main cause of underperformance.
Stock and has authorised the repurchase of shares when this will be of selection was the most important factor and there were some benefit to continuing shareholders as well as being in the interest thematic exposures, notably to Emerging Markets and Brazil in of those shareholders who may need to sell some or all of their particular, gold mining and small oil and gas exploration shares.
companies that had a particularly negative effect on performance, especially in the first half.
On the positive side we had some Outlook notable successes with a number of our holdings in relatively For as long as they have been around, central banks have always young companies with considerable growth potential such as the had some influence on asset prices, even when they have chosen Manchester-based high technology company Nanoco.
This has to ignore them and focus on other things, notably the rate of become one of the largest positions by virtue of having more than inflation or the level of unemployment.
Since the global financial doubled in price and there are a number of companies with similar crisis began there has been a change in the means by which the potential that have been added to the portfolio over the year.
major central banks seek to achieve their objectives that has greatly increased their direct intervention in financial markets.
Earnings and Dividend This intervention has seriously distorted asset prices and two Earnings per share were 4.68p compared with 5.35p, a decrease of the most important questions are how long this will last and of 12.5%.
Dividend income was lower than for the previous year, how it will end.
largely as result of sales of higher yielding holdings on valuation There is much talk of printing money but what quantitative grounds, and this more than offset a decline in expenses, notably easing comes down to is the purchase of various financial interest expense which fell following the repayment of loans and assets, notably, but not exclusively, government bonds, by central the maturity of the 11% debenture in June 2012.
Monks invests banks such as the United States Federal Reserve and the Bank of with the aim of achieving capital growth rather than income and England.
This intervention pushes up the price of the assets all costs are charged to the Revenue Account.
Holders of bonds have seen yields fall to historically The Board is recommending a final dividend of 3.45p, which low levels and cash in the bank yields nothing.
The nineteenth together with the interim 0.50p already paid, would make the century editor of the Economist Walter Bagehot quoted the saying total dividend for the year 3.95p, unchanged from the previous year.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
04 Annual Report 2013 Chairmans Statement John Bull can stand many things, but he cannot stand two per cent and the same is true of todays investors.
Money that in normal circumstances would be invested in government bonds or held in savings deposits has found its way into equity markets in the search for higher yielding alternatives, as well as into more exotic securities such as Rwandan government bonds.
This reallocation of funds has inflated the values of those equities with the greatest similarities to bonds.
Relative to other shares many of these now look expensive and our managers believe that there is much better value to be found in companies with greater potential for long term growth in earnings.
A return to more normal conditions would most likely be associated with a rise in interest rates and a reallocation of funds back into bonds and the shares of more economically sensitive or higher growth companies.
The current situation may persist for some time, however, in which case we may suffer further underperformance relative to the comparative index, but our managers believe that selecting companies for their potential to deliver superior operational performance and not overpaying for perceived safety remains the best policy for delivering our objective in the long run.
We are also aware that a return to normal is only one of a number of possibilities and that, given the many economic and political hurdles that will have to be overcome for this to happen, some of the others could be much worse.
We have therefore maintained some insurance against a setback in markets and exposure to markets is approximately the same as the level of shareholders funds.
The Board I am very pleased that Mr Karl Sternberg has agreed to join our Board with effect from 1 July 2013.
He has extensive and relevant investment experience and will, I am sure, make a valuable contribution to the Company.
Mr Sternberg will be submitted for election at the AGM and his biographical details are set out in the Directors Report on page 20.
AGM I hope shareholders will come to the Annual General Meeting, which will be held on 2 August 2013 at 11.00am at the Institute of Directors see map on page 48.
Our manager will give a short presentation and there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
James Ferguson 18 June 2013 The Monks Investment Trust PLC 05
