Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and and the financial statements in accordance with applicable integrity of the corporate and financial information included law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under the preparation and dissemination of financial statements the law they have elected to prepare the financial may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are loss of the Company: required to: the Chairmans Statement, Managers Review and Business select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Review contained within the Report of the Directors consistently: together constituting the Management Report include a make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and fair review of the development and performance of the prudent: and business and the position of the Company together with a state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed faces: and and explained in the financial statements.
the financial statements and the Directors Report and Business Review include details on related party The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting transactions.
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the For and on behalf of the Board of Murray Income Trust PLC Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and Humphrey van der Klugt detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law Chairman of the Audit Committee and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for 11 September 2013 preparing a Directors Report including a Business Review, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
