Glossary of Terms and Definitions Price Earnings Ratio Asset Cover The ratio is calculated by dividing the middle-market price The value of a companys net assets available to repay a per share by the earnings per share.
The calculation assumes certain security.
Asset cover is usually expressed as a no change in earnings but in practice the multiple reflects multiple and calculated by dividing the net assets available the stock markets view of a companys prospects and profit by the amount required to repay the specific security.
Call Option An option contract which gives the buyer the right, but not Prior Charges the obligation, to purchase a specified amount of an asset at The name given to all borrowings including debentures, loan the strike price by a future specified date.
and short term loans and overdrafts that are to be used for investment purposes, reciprocal foreign currency loans, Put Option currency facilities to the extent that they are drawn down, An option contract which gives the buyer the right, but not index-linked securities, and all types of preference or the obligation, to sell a specified amount of an asset at the preferred capital and the income shares of split capital trusts, strike price by a future specified date.
irrespective of the time until repayment.
Discount Total Assets The amount by which the market price per share of an Total Assets as per the balance sheet less current liabilities investment trust is lower than the net asset value per share.
before deducting prior charges as defined above.
The discount is normally expressed as a percentage of the net asset value per share.
Total Return Total Return involves reinvesting the net dividend in the Dividend Cover month that the share price goes xd.
The NAV Total Return Earnings per share divided by dividends per share expressed involves investing the same net dividend in the NAV of the as a ratio.
trust on the date to which that dividend was earned, eg quarter end, half year or year end date.
Dividend Yield The annual dividend expressed as a percentage of the share Voting Rights price.
In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, on a show of hands or on a poll, every member or Net Asset Value duly appointed proxy present at a general meeting of the The value of total assets less liabilities.
Liabilities for this Company has one vote.
purpose included current and long-term liabilities.
The net asset value divided by the number of shares in issue produces the net asset value per share.
Net Gearing Cash Net gearing cash is calculated by dividing total borrowings less cash or cash equivalents, by shareholders funds expressed as a percentage.
Ongoing charges Ratio of expenses as percentage of average daily shareholders funds calculated as per the AICs industry standard method.
Premium The amount by which the market price per share of an investment trust exceeds the net asset value per share.
The premium is normally expressed as a percentage of the net asset value per share.
