Information about the Mana Information about the Manag ge er r Murray International Trust PLC Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited The Companys Manager is Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, a subsidiary of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, whose group companies as at 31 December 2013 had approximately 193.6bn of assets under management.
It manages assets on behalf of a wide range of clients including 34 investment companies and other closed-ended funds, which had combined total assets of over 10.05bn.
The Manager has its headquarters in Aberdeen and invests globally, operating from over 30 offices in 26 countries.
Its investment teams are generally based in the markets or regions in which they invest: in the UK its main investment centres are in London and Edinburgh.
The Senior Investment Manager Bruce Stout and the Global Equity Team Bruce Stout and Aberdeens Global Equity team are responsible for managing Murray International Trust PLC.
The investment management team is responsible for the construction of global equity portfolios.
Bruce Stout is a senior investment manager on the Global equities team.
Bruce joined Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited or acquired companies in 1987 and has held a number of roles including investment manager on the emerging markets team.
For Murray International Trust PLC, regional allocation of The Investment Process, Philosophy and Style funds in line with guidelines set by the AAM Investment Long term investment success demands a clear focus and a Strategy Committee is the first stage of the portfolio sound structure.
The Aberdeen Asset Management Group construction process.
At this stage, house views on specific AAM has as its primary objective in managing Murray global sectors are also taken into account.
International Trust PLC the delivery of consistent outperformance against the benchmark based on the Established themes and trends are considered within the concept of seeking growth at a reasonable price.
process of country allocation, which is also influenced by analysis of key data covering macroeconomic and monetary To achieve this, a disciplined investment process has been factors, value and performance.
However, to meet the different performance objectives mandated for specific funds, there is built in Country selection is driven overall by short and medium term flexibility.
estimates of macroeconomics, politics and liquidity, and the market implications of those.
Key decisions are implemented consistently across all funds and portfolio risk limits are set and closely monitored.
A Stock Selection continuous watch is kept over critical factors that influence investment decisions, so that when views change, action is The investment management team led by Bruce Stout, has taken swiftly and decisively to reposition portfolios.
responsibility for portfolio construction across all regional segments.
Working closely with the relevant underlying desks in each case, portfolio construction is an interactive process.
Asset Allocation The Manager utilises a Global Equity Buy List which is Based on the guidelines set by the AAM Investment Strategy constructed by each of the specialist country desks.
This list Committee, and after consultation with relevant AAM area contains all buy and hold recommendations for each desk, specialists, the investment management team at Aberdeen which are then used as the investment universe.
If a stock no led by Bruce Stout, recommends asset allocation to the longer meets the criteria to be included on the Buy List, it is Board.
There is a top down influence to establish the sold within 30 days.
This process enables the investment economic overview and to identify potential investment manager to better reflect top down themes that emerge themes.
The approach is highly focused and portfolios are from the global equity strategy and investment themes tightly constructed to provide the greatest scope for meetings that take place monthly.
outperformance within the agreed risk parameters.
64 Murray International Trust PLC from movements in foreign exchange rates and changes in Risk Controls interest rates.
Market price risk is managed by strict Integral to the investment process is regular provision, by a adherence to parameters set for portfolio construction.
The specialised team, of performance and risk analysis data to foreign exchange risk involved may be hedged by the use of ensure that funds are operated within the terms of their forward currency contracts.
Interest rate risk lies with the mandate.
portfolio holdings of fixed income securities and on-call deposits.
A detailed risk profile of the Company is given in As well as market price risk inherent in all portfolio note 19 to the financial statements investment, Murray International Trust is also exposed to risk Murray International Trust PLC 65
