FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT The Directors are responsible for preparing financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view, in accordance with applicable Guernsey law and US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles US GAAP, of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss for the period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended.
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors of the Company have elected to prepare consolidated financial statements for NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Limited for the year ended 31 December 2013 as the parent of the Group in accordance with Section 244 5 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
They are not required to prepare individual financial statements for NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Limited in accordance with Section 243 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 for the financial period.
So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge that: The consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in conformity with US GAAP give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company, and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole as required by DTR 4.1.
12R and are in compliance with the requirements set out in The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 as amended: The Annual Report includes a fair review of the information required by DTR 4.1.
11R, which provides an indication of important events and a description of principal risks and uncertainties which face the Company.
The maintenance and integrity of the NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Limited website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the consolidated financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
38 NEUBERGER BERMAN DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT CONTINUED Legislation in Guernsey governing the preparation and dissemination of consolidated financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board Sandra Platts Richard Battey Director Director 14 April 2014 14 April 2014 ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2013 39
