NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 1 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Limited the Company is a Guernsey Registered Closed-ended Collective Investment Scheme registered and incorporated in Guernsey under The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 as amended, on 10 March 2011, with registration number 53155.
The Companys shares were admitted to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange on 20 April 2011.
The Initial Public Offering of the Company took place on 15 April 2011, raising gross proceeds of approximately $507.3 million.
On 30 September 2011, the Company raised an additional $187 million by means of a Placing and Offer for Subscription of C Shares.
On 21 March 2013 and 24 October 2013 the Company raised an additional $550 million and $705 million respectively by means of a Placing and Offer for Subscription of C Shares.
On 22 July 2013, through a tap issue, the Company raised gross proceeds of $69 million.
The Companys investment objective is to provide its shareholders with regular dividends, at levels that are sustainable, whilst preserving the capital value of its investment portfolio, utilising the investment skills of the Investment Manager, Neuberger Berman Europe Limited and the Sub-Investment Manager, Neuberger Berman Fixed Income LLC.
To pursue its investment objective, the Company invests mainly in floating rate senior secured loans issued in U. S. Dollars, Sterling and Euros by primarily North American and European Union corporations, partnerships and other business issuers.
For the purposes of efficient portfolio management, the Company has established a wholly-owned Luxembourg incorporated subsidiary, NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Lux 1 S.. r. l. which in turn holds a wholly-owned subsidiary, NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Lux 2 S.. r. l. All references to the Company in this document refer to the Company and its wholly owned Luxembourg subsidiaries.
The Companys share capital is denominated in U. S. Dollars and Sterling and consists of U. S. Dollar Ordinary Shares, Sterling Ordinary Shares and Sterling C Shares at 31 December 2013.
NOTE 2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been presented on a going concern basis and on the accrual basis of accounting in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles US GAAP.
Management believes that the underlying assumptions are appropriate and that the Companys consolidated financial statements therefore present a true and fair financial position.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2013.
The Company and all its wholly owned subsidiaries have United States Dollars as their functional and reporting currencies.
The results of the subsidiary undertakings are included in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.
All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses are eliminated in full.
Use of estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with US GAAP requires that the Directors make estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
Such estimates and associated assumptions are generally based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, and form the basis of making the judgments about attributing values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may vary from such accounting estimates in amounts that may have a material impact on the financial information of the Company.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2013 51 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 ANNUAL REPORT NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTE 2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Revenue recognition Interest earned on debt instruments is accounted for net of applicable withholding taxes and it is recognised as income over the terms of the loans.
Discounts received or premiums paid in connection with the acquisition of loans are amortised into interest income using the effective interest method over the contractual life of the related loan.
If a loan pays off prior to maturity, the recognition of the fees and costs is accelerated as appropriate.
The Company raises a provision when the collection of interest is deemed doubtful.
Cash and cash equivalents The Companys cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand deposits and highly liquid investments with original maturities of less than 90 days that are both readily convertible to known amounts of cash and so near maturity that they represent insignificant risk of changes in value.
New accounting pronouncements In December 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2011-11, Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities ASU 2011-11.
The disclosure requirements are intended to help shareholders and other financial statement users better assess the effect or potential effect of offsetting arrangements on a companys financial position.
They also improve transparency in the reporting of how companies mitigate credit risk, including disclosure of related collateral pledged or received.
In addition, ASU 2011- 11 facilitates comparison between those entities that prepare their financial statement on the basis of US GAAP and those entities that prepare their financial statements on the basis of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
ASU 2011-11 requires entities to: disclose both gross and net information about both instruments and transactions eligible for offset in the financial statements: and disclose instruments and transactions subject to an agreement similar to a master netting agreement.
In January 2013, FASB issued Accounting Standard Update 2013-01, Balance Sheet Topic 210, Clarifying the Scope of Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities, which clarifies that the scope of ASU 2011-11 applies to derivatives accounted for in accordance with Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, including bifurcated embedded derivatives, repurchase agreements and reverse repurchase agreements and securities borrowing and securities lending transactions that are either offset in accordance with Section 210-20-45 or Section 815-10-45 or subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement.
The provisions of ASU 2011-11 and ASU 2013-01 are effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
Note 5 details the gross and net derivative asset and liability position by contract type and the amount for those derivative contracts for which netting is permissible under US GAAP.
The derivative assets and liabilities have been netted where an enforceable master netting arrangement is in place.
Valuation of investments The Company carries investments on its Consolidated Statement of Assets and Liabilities at fair value in accordance with US GAAP, with changes in fair value recognised within the Consolidated Statement of Operations in each reporting period.
Quoted investments are valued according to their bid price as at the close of the relevant reporting date.
Investments in private securities are priced at the bid price using a pricing service for private loans.
Asset backed securities are valued according to their bid price.
If a price cannot be ascertained from the above sources, the Company will seek bid prices from third party broker dealer quotes for the investments.
The Investment Manager believes that bid price is the best estimate of fair value and is in line with the valuation policy adopted by the Company.
52 NEUBERGER BERMAN NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTE 2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Valuation of investments continued In cases where no third party price is available, or where the Investment Manager determines that the provided price is not an accurate representation of the fair value of the investment, the Sub-Investment Manager determines the valuation based on the SubInvestment Managers fair valuation policy.
The overall criterion for fair value is a price at which the securities involved would change hands in a transaction between a willing buyer and a willing seller, neither being under compulsion to buy or sell and both having the same knowledge of the relevant facts.
Consistent with the above criterion, the following criteria is considered when applicable: Valuation of other securities by the same issuer for which market quotations are available: Reasons for absence of market quotations: The credit quality of the issuer and the related economics: Recent sales prices and or bid and ask quotations for the security: Value of similar securities of issuers in the same or similar industries for which market quotations are available: Economic outlook of the industry: Issuers position in the industry: The financial information of the issuer: and The nature and duration of any restriction on disposition of the security.
Derivative financial instruments The Company may, from time to time, hold derivative financial instruments for the purposes of hedging foreign currency exposure.
These derivatives are measured at fair value in accordance with US GAAP, with changes in fair value recognised within the Consolidated Statement of Operations in each reporting period.
Depending on the product and the terms of the transaction, the fair value of the over the counter OTC derivative products, such as foreign exchange contracts, can be modelled taking into account the counterparties credit worthiness and using a series of techniques, including simulation models.
Many pricing models do not entail material subjectivity because the methodologies employed do not necessitate significant judgements and the pricing inputs are observed from actively quoted markets.
The forward exchange contracts valued by the Company using pricing models fall into this category and are categorised within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
As shares are denominated in U. S. Dollars and Sterling and investments are denominated in U. S. Dollars, Euro or Sterling, holders of any class of Shares are subject to foreign currency fluctuations between the currency in which such Shares are denominated and the currency of the investments made by the Company.
Consequently, the Investment Manager seeks to engage in currency hedging between the U. S. Dollars and any other currency in which the assets of the Company or a class of Shares is denominated, subject to suitable hedging contracts such as forward currency exchange contracts being available in a timely manner and on terms acceptable to the Investment Manager, in their sole and absolute discretion.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2013 53
