How We Operate Responsibly Protecting people, the environment and communities at every stage Cairn complements technical skill with social and environmental 5.
Exploration Drilling Exploration wells are drilled to determine whether oil consideration at every stage of the upstream oil and gas lifecycle or gas is present.
This phase can be accompanied by a step-change in activity and visibility to local people Cairn helps to create, add and realise value for 4.
Site Survey as offshore exploration can involve a drilling rig, stakeholders, but not at the expense of the safety of Before we commence on any drilling activity, supply vessels and helicopters for transporting people and the environment.
As well as responsibly site surveys are carried out to gain more detailed personnel.
Exploration drilling is preceded by an managing risks associated with our business, we information on the area where an exploration well assessment to understand potential health, safety, take a long-term approach.
The diagram on this may be drilled and to confirm that the selected environmental, social, security and human rights page offers an overview of the stages of oil and drilling location is safe and that any sensitive impacts.
This identifies appropriate steps to reduce gas exploration and production.
The process normally impacts and operate responsibly.
Limited community involves taking geological samples from the seabed development programmes may also be put into 1.
Due Diligence and carrying out shallow seismic surveys.
These place at this time depending on the nature of Before making an acquisition or investment, applying activities have low social or environmental impacts the programme.
for an exploration licence or farming-in to an existing and, therefore, usually do not require a separate project, Cairn carries out an extensive risk screening environmental or social impact assessment.
In 2013, we undertook exploration drilling offshore process which includes assessing whether there Morocco, and expect to drill further exploration are potential health and safety, social, human rights, In 2013, we completed site surveys in advance wells in Morocco and Senegal in 2014.
As nonpolitical, corruption, security or environmental of future drilling campaigns offshore Morocco, operator, we also participated in exploration wells impacts.
This is used in decision making on whether Senegal and Greenland.
in the UK and Norwegian North Sea.
or not to proceed, and if investment goes ahead, it informs approaches to risk management going forward.
We have undertaken a number of due diligence processes for investment opportunities in 2013, including for interests acquired offshore Morocco, Mauritania, Senegal and Republic of Ireland.
Prequalification When we apply for an exploration licence, the necessary documents are submitted to the relevant authorities.
Typically this includes information about our legal status, financial capability, technical competence and plans to manage health, safety and environmental risks and contributions to local economic development.
Exploration Seismic Once Cairn has been awarded the right to explore in a certain area, we may carry out seismic surveys to develop a picture of geological structures below the surface.
This helps identify the likelihood of an area containing hydrocarbons.
Seismic surveys are usually preceded by an assessment of environmental, social or human rights impacts which are managed through the Project Delivery Process.
During 2013, we completed a seismic survey offshore Morocco, continued seeking approval for a survey offshore Spain and began planning a seismic survey offshore Malta.
18 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 3 Exploration seismic Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 6.
Development We are participating, in a non-operator capacity, in If promising amounts of oil and gas are confirmed If appraisal wells show technically and commercially two development projects, the Kraken and Catcher during the exploration phase, field appraisal is viable quantities of oil and gas, a development plan is Fields in the UK North Sea which when on stream used to establish the size and characteristics of the prepared and submitted to the relevant authorities will provide free cash flows to fund future activities.
discovery and to provide technical information to for approval.
This includes a rigorous assessment determine the optimum method for recovery of the of all the potential risks and a long-term assessment 8.
The potential impacts associated with of environmental and social impacts covering a A variety of options are available for the production appraisal drilling are comparable to exploration timeframe of between 10-30 years.
The plan will of oil and gas.
During this phase, which can last many drilling and similar assessments are carried out also detail projected benefits to local communities, decades, regular reviews are made of social and in advance.
for example employment and supplier opportunities, environmental performance to ensure that impacts as well as proposing how to manage potential identified in the assessments are mitigated.
In 2013, appraisal drilling was undertaken on the impacts such as an influx of workers from outside Changes in the risks associated with activities Skarfjell discovery, for which Cairn is non-operator.
are assessed throughout the production period.
In 2014, Cairn, as Operator, and our JV partners intend to drill an appraisal well on the Spanish We currently have no operated production, but Point discovery.
historically had significant production through our involvement in CIL in which we held an 10% interest at the end of 2013.
Oil production from CIL brought social and economic development to a number of regions in India, and is described on CILs website at www.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19 8 5 6 7 4 Production Site survey Exploration Appraisal Development drilling drilling
