Financials MCEV INDEX TO MCEV For the year ended 31 December 2013 Adjusted Group MCEV by line of business 250 Adjusted operating Group MCEV statement of earnings 251 Adjusted operating Group earnings per share 252 Group MCEV statement of earnings 253 Notes to the MCEV basis supplementary information A: MCEV policies 256 B: Segment information 264 C: Other key performance information 271 D: Sensitivity tests 274 247 MCEV STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES In relation to the Market Consistent Embedded Value basis supplementary information The directors of Old Mutual plc have chosen to prepare supplementary information on a Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV basis.
Old Mutuals methodology adopts the Market Consistent Embedded Value Principles Copyright Stichting CFO Forum Foundation 2008 issued in June 2008 and updated in October 2009 by the CFO Forum the Principles, as well as the interim transitional guidance for embedded value reporting in advance of the effective date of Solvency II provided in September 2011 and September 2012, as the basis for the methodology.
The Principles have been materially complied with in the preparation of MCEV information for Emerging Markets and Old Mutual Wealth businesses at 31 December 2013.
As a result of the consolidation of IFRS and MCEV reporting processes for Old Mutual Bermuda, MCEV information for Old Mutual Bermuda has been prepared using IFRS results prepared in accordance with the primary financial statements: apart from variable annuity guarantee liabilities, which have been restated to reflect a best estimate valuation consistent with the MCEV Principles.
The detailed methodology and assumptions made in presenting this supplementary information are set out in notes A2 and A3.
In preparing the MCEV supplementary information, the directors have: Prepared the supplementary information in accordance with the methodology described above and the basis of preparation as set out on page 254 Identified and described the business covered by the MCEV methodology Applied the MCEV methodology consistently to the Emerging Markets and Old Mutual Wealth businesses Determined assumptions on a market consistent basis and operating assumptions on a best estimate entity specific basis, having regard to past, current and expected future experience and to any relevant external data, and then applied them consistently Where relevant, made estimates that are reasonable and consistent.
Julian Roberts Philip Broadley Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director 28 February 2014 28 February 2014 Old Mutual plc 248 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials MCEV INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To Old Mutual plc on the Market Consistent Embedded Value basis supplementary information We have audited the Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV basis supplementary information the supplementary information of Old Mutual plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2013 set out on pages 250 to 275.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the supplementary information is the Market Consistent Embedded Value Principles issued in October 2009 by the European CFO Forum the MCEV Principles using the methodology and assumptions set out on pages 254 to 263 for the Emerging Markets and Old Mutual Wealth businesses at 31 December 2013.
The supplementary information should be read in conjunction with the Group financial statements which are on pages 132 to 237.
This report is made solely to the Company in accordance with the terms of our engagement.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company those matters we have been engaged to state in this report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 248, the directors have accepted responsibility for the preparation of the supplementary information on an MCEV basis in accordance with the MCEV Principles.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the supplementary information in accordance with the terms of our engagement and having regard to International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the supplementary information An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the supplementary information sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the supplementary information is free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: and the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors.
In view of the purpose for which the supplementary information has been prepared, however, we did not assess the overall presentation of the supplementary information which would have been required if we were to express an audit opinion under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
In addition we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Old Mutual plc Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited supplementary information.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on the supplementary information In our opinion, the MCEV basis supplementary information of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2013 has been properly prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the MCEV Principles using the methodology and assumptions set out on page 254.
Philip Smart for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 28 February 2014 249 MCEV ADJUSTED GROUP MCEV BY LINE OF BUSINESS At 31 December 2013 m At At 31 December 31 December 1 Notes 2013 2012 Restated MCEV of the core covered business Emerging Markets B3 2,953 3,316 2 Adjusted net worth 1,621 1,838 Value of in-force business 1,332 1,478 MCEV of the core covered business Old Mutual Wealth B3 2,549 2,444 2 Adjusted net worth 575 466 Value of in-force business 1,974 1,978 3 MCEV of the non-core covered business Old Mutual Bermuda B3 365 625 Adjusted net worth 365 680 Value of in-force business 55 Adjusted net worth of asset management and other business 1,670 1,772 Emerging Markets 364 444 Old Mutual Wealth 248 225 US Asset Management 1,058 1,103 3,172 3,574 Value of the banking business Nedbank market value 3,113 3,527 Emerging Markets adjusted net worth 59 47 Value of the general insurance business Property & Casualty adjusted net worth 183 261 4 Net other business 366 34 Adjustment for present value of Black Economic Empowerment scheme deferred consideration 201 245 5 Adjustment for value of own shares in ESOP schemes 123 126 Market value of perpetual preferred callable securities 582 686 Market value of subordinated debt 838 921 Adjusted Group MCEV 10,162 10,790 Adjusted Group MCEV per share pence 207.5 220.5 Number of shares in issue at the end of the financial period less treasury shares millions 4,897 4,893 1 The prior period has been restated for the impact of the change in accounting policies.
Refer to note A1 for further information.
2 Adjusted net worth is after the elimination of inter-company loans.
3 The valuation basis for Old Mutual Bermuda has been simplified for 2013.
4 Net other business is the aggregate of other Group assets and liabilities not included elsewhere, including net inter-company adjustments and holding company cash.
5 Includes adjustment for the value of excess own shares in employee share scheme trusts.
Old Mutual plc 250 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials MCEV ADJUSTED OPERATING GROUP MCEV STATEMENT OF EARNINGS For the year ended 31 December 2013 m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 1 Notes 2013 2012 Restated Emerging Markets 603 619 Covered business B2 450 459 Asset management 141 145 Banking 12 15 Old Mutual Wealth 181 19 Covered business B2 162 5 Asset management 19 14 Nedbank Banking 797 825 Property & Casualty General insurance 4 37 US Asset Management Asset management 111 91 Other operating segments 2 Finance costs 103 148 3 Corporate costs 41 40 4 Other net expenses income 2 13 Adjusted operating Group MCEV earnings before tax from core operations 1,550 1,352 1 The prior period has been restated for the impact of the change in accounting policies and reallocation of US Asset Management seed capital gains.
2 This includes interest payable from Old Mutual plc to non-core operations of 11 million December 2012: 18 million.
3 Central costs of 13 million December 2012: 14 million are allocated to the covered business and provisioned in the VIF.
This is based on the proportion of management expenses that are incurred by the covered business as a percentage of total management expenses incurred by the Group.
Hence net corporate costs under MCEV of 41 million December 2012: 40 million differ from the IFRS amount of 54 million December 2012: 54 million.
4 Other net expenses exclude capital gains on seed capital in the US Asset Management business of 9 million December 2012: 14 million.
These seed capital gains are included in the earnings of Old Mutual Bermuda non-core continuing operations for MCEV reporting.
251 MCEV ADJUSTED OPERATING GROUP MCEV EARNINGS PER SHARE For the year ended 31 December 2013 m Core Non-core continuing continuing Discontinued 2 Year ended 31 December 2013 Notes operations operations operations Total Adjusted operating Group MCEV earnings before tax 1,550 31 1,581 Covered business B2 612 31 643 Other business 938 938 Tax on adjusted operating Group MCEV earnings 423 1 422 Covered business B2 161 1 160 Other business 262 262 Adjusted operating Group MCEV earnings after tax 1,127 32 1,159 Non-controlling interests Ordinary shares 273 273 Preferred securities 19 19 Adjusted operating MCEV earnings after tax attributable 1 to equity holders 835 32 867 Adjusted operating Group MCEV earnings per share 17.3 0.6 17.9 Adjusted weighted average number of shares millions 4,836 m Core Non-core continuing continuing Discontinued 3 2 Year ended 31 December 2012 Restated Notes operations operations operations Total Adjusted operating Group MCEV earnings before tax 1,352 99 28 1,479 Covered business B2 454 99 18 571 Other business 898 10 908 Tax on adjusted operating Group MCEV earnings 373 3 376 Covered business B2 118 118 Other business 255 3 258 Adjusted operating Group MCEV earnings after tax 979 99 25 1,103 Non-controlling interests Ordinary shares 277 277 Preferred securities 50 50 Adjusted operating MCEV earnings after tax attributable to 1 equity holders 652 99 25 776 Adjusted operating Group MCEV earnings per share 12.9 2.0 0.5 15.4 Adjusted weighted average number of shares millions 5,029 1 Adjusted operating Group MCEV earnings excludes income attributable to Black Economic Empowerment trusts of listed subsidiaries.
The calculation of the adjusted weighted average number of shares includes own shares held in policyholders funds and Black Economic Empowerment trusts.
2 Discontinued operations include earnings from previously owned Nordic business.
3 The prior period has been restated for the impact of the change in accounting policies and reallocation of US Asset Management seed capital gains.
Old Mutual plc 252 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials MCEV GROUP MARKET CONSISTENT EMBEDDED VALUE STATEMENT OF EARNINGS For the year ended 31 December 2013 m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 1 Notes 2013 2012 Restated Adjusted operating Group MCEV earnings before tax from core continuing operations 1,550 1,352 Adjusted operating Group MCEV earnings before tax from OM Bermuda non-core operations 31 99 2 Adjusted operating Group MCEV earnings before tax from continuing operations 1,581 1,451 Adjusting items from continuing operations C2 389 492 Total Group MCEV earnings before tax from continuing operations 1,970 1,943 Income tax attributable to shareholders 528 490 Total Group MCEV earnings after tax from continuing operations 1,442 1,453 Total Group MCEV earnings after tax from discontinued operations 3 600 Total Group MCEV earnings after tax for the financial period 1,445 2,053 Total Group MCEV earnings for the financial period attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 1,170 1,747 Non-controlling interests Ordinary shares 256 256 Preferred securities 19 50 Total Group MCEV earnings after tax for the financial period 1,445 2,053 Basic total Group MCEV earnings per ordinary share pence 25.5 36.6 Weighted average number of shares millions 4,597 4,768 1 The prior period has been restated for the impact of the change in accounting policies and reallocation of US Asset Management seed capital gains.
2 Refer to note A2 for the definition of adjusted operating Group MCEV earnings.
253 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2013 A: MCEV policies A1: Basis of preparation The Market Consistent Embedded Value methodology MCEV adopts the Market Consistent Embedded Value Principles Copyright Stichting CFO Forum Foundation 2008 issued in June 2008 and updated in October 2009 by the CFO Forum the Principles as the basis for the methodology used in preparing the supplementary information.
The CFO Forum released interim transitional guidance in September 2012 confirming that there was no requirement to make allowance for Solvency II in subsequent MCEV disclosures.
Throughout the supplementary information the following terminology is used to distinguish between the terms MCEV, Group MCEV and adjusted Group MCEV: MCEV is a measure of the consolidated value of shareholders interests in the covered business and consists of the sum of the shareholders adjusted net worth in respect of the covered business and the value of the in-force covered business.
Group MCEV is a measure of the consolidated value of shareholders interests in covered and non-covered business.
Non-covered business is valued at the IFRS net asset value detailed in the primary IFRS financial statements adjusted to eliminate inter-company loans and a deduction for certain non-controlling interests in Emerging Markets.
The adjusted Group MCEV which is a measure used by management to assess the shareholders interest in the value of the Group, includes the impact of marking all debt to market value, the market value of the Groups listed banking subsidiary, marking the value of deferred consideration due in respect of Black Economic Empowerment arrangements in South Africa the BEE schemes to market, as well as including the market value of excess own shares held in Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP schemes.
a Changes in basis of preparation Old Mutual Bermuda valuation basis change For the current period, the valuation basis for Old Mutual Bermuda has been simplified from a full bottom-up MCEV calculation to an adjusted IFRS basis.
The revised approach uses the IFRS net asset value calculated in accordance with the primary IFRS financial statements, with variable annuity guarantee liabilities restated to reflect a best estimate valuation consistent with MCEV principles.
The main effect of this change is the removal of items previously included in the value of in-force business, apart from expected variable annuity guarantee losses, which are now included in ANW.
Items no longer included in the MCEV calculation as a result of not calculating the value of in-force business include the cost of non-hedgeable risk, frictional costs and future annuity contract fee income, net of expenses.
This simplification is part of the consolidation of reporting processes for Old Mutual Bermuda following a significant run-off of the book given surrenders of variable annuities post the five-year top-up anniversaries and management actions taken to fide-risk the business.
As a result, Old Mutual Bermudas value-in-force has become less significant to the Group from a valuation and risk perspective.
Earnings calculated on the adjusted IFRS basis are expected to be similar to bottom-up calculated MCEV earnings.
As a result of this change a simplified analysis of earnings approach has been adopted, with all earnings recorded under other operating experience variances, apart from variable annuity guarantee performance net of hedge performance and seed capital gains and losses, which are recorded in economic variances.
Comparative information has not been restated to reflect the valuation basis change.
Emerging Markets valuation basis for certain African entities The covered business within certain African entities Zimbabwe, Kenya, Malawi, Swaziland and Nigeria has been included on an MCEV basis for 2013 year-end reporting.
Simplified approaches have been used where appropriate to the size of the business, or where insufficient market data is available to perform full bottom up MCEV calculations.
Previously these entities were included in covered business on a basis consistent with the primary IFRS financial statements.
Comparative information has not been restated to reflect this valuation change.
b Restatement of comparative information IAS 19 Employee Benefits and IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements restatements The Group has adopted IAS 19 Employee Benefits and IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements with a date of initial application of 1 January 2013.
Further information on the key amendments to these statements are detailed in note J1 in the primary Group IFRS financial statements.
The change in accounting policies has been applied retrospectively and as a result, the comparative information for the year ended 31 December 2012 has been restated accordingly.
Old Mutual plc 254 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials US Asset Management seed capital gains The US Asset Management seed capital forms part of the adjusted net worth of Old Mutual Bermuda for MCEV reporting purposes following the transfer of ownership in July 2012.
Seed capital gains of 9 million December 2012: 14 million are recorded in economic variances in MCEV reporting and are therefore excluded from operating MCEV earnings.
This differs from the approach for IFRS reporting where seed capital gains are included in adjusted operating profit.
The December 2012 operating MCEV earnings have been restated to reflect this treatment.
A2: Methodology a Introduction MCEV represents the present value of shareholders interests in the earnings that are distributable from assets allocated to the in-force covered business after sufficient and appropriate allowances for the aggregate risks in the covered business.
It is measured in a way that is consistent with the value that would normally be placed on the cash flows generated by these assets and liabilities in a deep and liquid market.
MCEV is therefore a risk-adjusted measure to the extent that financial risk is reflected through the use of market consistent techniques in the valuation of both assets and distributable earnings and a transparent explicit allowance is made for non-financial risks.
The MCEV consists of the sum of the following components: Adjusted net worth ANW, which excludes acquired intangibles and goodwill, consisting of: free surplus allocated to the covered business required capital to support the covered business Value of in-force covered business VIF.
The adjusted net worth is the market value of shareholders assets held in respect of the covered business after allowance for the liabilities which are determined by local regulatory reserving requirements.
MCEV is calculated net of non-controlling shareholder interests and excludes the value of future new business.
b Coverage Covered business includes, where material, any contracts that are regarded by local insurance supervisors as long-term life assurance business, and other business, where material, directly related to such long-term life assurance business where the profits are included in the IFRS long-term business profits in the primary financial statements.
For the life businesses in entities where the covered business is not material, the treatment within this supplementary information is the same as in the primary IFRS financial statements ie.
expected future profits for this business are not capitalised for MCEV reporting purposes.
Some types of business are legally written by a life company, but under IFRS are classified as asset management because long-term business only serves as a wrapper.
This business is excluded from covered business, for example: New institutional investment platform pensions business written in the United Kingdom as it is more appropriately classified as unit trust business Individual unit trusts and some group market-linked business written by the asset management companies in South Africa through the life company as profits from this business arise in the asset management and asset administration companies.
The treatment within this supplementary information of non-covered business is the same as in the primary financial statements, except for the recognition of certain non-controlling interests in Zimbabwe.
The adjusted Group MCEV includes the impact of marking all debt to market value, the market value of the Groups listed banking subsidiary, marking the value of deferred consideration due in respect of Black Economic Empowerment arrangements in South Africa the BEE schemes to market, as well as including the market value of excess own shares held in ESOP schemes.
c Free surplus Free surplus is the market value of any assets allocated to, but not required to support, the in-force covered business.
It is determined as the market value of any excess assets attributed to the covered business but not backing the regulatory liabilities, less the required capital to support the covered business.
255 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2013 A: MCEV policies continued A2: Methodology continued d Required capital Required capital is the market value of assets that is attributed to support the covered business, over and above that required to back statutory liabilities for covered business, whose distribution to shareholders is restricted.
The following capital measures are considered in determining the required capital held for covered business so that it reflects the level of capital considered by the directors to be appropriate to manage the business: Economic capital Regulatory capital ie.
the level of solvency capital which the local regulators require Capital required by rating agencies in order to maintain the desired credit rating Any other required capital definition to meet internal management objectives.
Economic capital for the covered business is based upon Old Mutuals internal assessment of risks inherent in the underlying business.
It measures capital requirements on a basis consistent with a 99.5% confidence level over a one-year time horizon.
The confidence level has been changed from 99.93% to 99.5% for Group economic capital calculations at 31 December 2013 to ensure consistency with Solvency II principles and general industry practice.
For Emerging Markets and Old Mutual Wealth, required capital determined with reference to internal management objectives is the most onerous and is the capital measure used for the determination of required capital for MCEV reporting.
The required capital in respect of OMLAC SA s covered business is partially covered by the market value of the Groups investments in banking in South Africa.
On consolidation this investment is shown separately.
For Old Mutual Bermuda, regulatory required capital is the most onerous capital measure, and continues to be the case despite the reduction in the Bermuda Monetary Authority BMA regulatory capital requirements applicable at 31 December 2013.
In September 2013, the BMA approved a reduction in capital resource requirements from 433 million $703 million to 252 million $418 million.
The capital requirement will be kept constant to that approved by the BMA until there is notification of a revised capital requirement after the filing of the 2013 annual return.
The table below shows the level of required capital expressed as a percentage of the minimum local regulatory capital requirements.
m At 31 December 2013 At 31 December 2012 Required Regulatory Required Regulatory capital capital Ratio capital capital Ratio Notes a b a b a b a b Emerging Markets B3 1,113 802 1.4 1,312 923 1.4 1 Old Mutual Wealth B3 326 228 1.4 294 212 1.4 Old Mutual Bermuda B3 252 252 1.0 433 433 1.0 Total 1,691 1,282 1.3 2,039 1,568 1.3 1 Local regulators for many of the Old Mutual Wealth countries allow intangible assets to be included as part of admissible regulatory capital.
In such cases the required capital reported for MCEV is net of these items, although each of the countries continues to be sufficiently capitalised on the local solvency basis.
Skandia Leben in Germany is permitted under local regulations to include the unallocated policyholder profit sharing liability as admissible capital.
e Value of in-force VIF covered business Under the MCEV methodology, VIF consists of the following components: Present value of future profits PVFP from in-force covered business, less Time value of financial options and guarantees, less Frictional costs of required capital, less Cost of residual non-hedgeable risks CNHR.
Projected liabilities and cash flows are calculated net of outward risk reinsurance with allowance for default risk of reinsurance counterparties where material.
Old Mutual plc 256 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials f Present value of future profits The PVFP is calculated as the discounted value of future distributable earnings taking account of local statutory reserving requirements that are expected to emerge from the in-force covered business, including the value of contractual renewal of in-force business, on a best estimate basis where assumed earned rates of return and discount rates are equal to the risk free reference rates.
This is also known as a deterministic certainty equivalent valuation of future distributable earnings, and is described in more detail in note A3.
Any limitations on distribution of such earnings due to statutory or internal capital requirements are taken into account separately in the calculation of frictional costs of required capital.
PVFP captures the intrinsic value of financial options and guarantees on in-force covered business which are not included in the local statutory reserves forming part of ANW, but excludes any additional allowance for the time value of financial options and guarantees.
g Financial options and guarantees Allowance is made in the determination of MCEV for the potential impact of variability of investment returns ie.
asymmetric impact on future shareholder cash flows of policyholder financial options and guarantees within the in-force covered business.
The time value of financial options and guarantees describes that part of the value of financial options and guarantees that arises from the variability of future investment returns on assets to the extent that it is not already included in the local statutory reserves.
The calculation of the value of financial options and guarantees including the allowance in ANW and VIF components of MCEV is based on market consistent stochastic modelling techniques where the actual assets held at the valuation date are used as the starting point for the valuation of such financial options and guarantees.
Projected future cash flows are valued using economic assumptions such that they are valued in line with the price of similar cash flows that are traded in the capital markets.
Closed form solutions are also applied in Europe provided the nature of any guarantees is not complex.
The value of financial options and guarantees also includes allowance for potential burn-through costs on participating business, ie.
the extent to which shareholders are unable to recover a loan made to participating funds to meet either regulatory or internal capital management requirements, or the extent to which reserves are inadequate to meet benefit payments during periods of severely adverse experience.
In the generated economic scenarios, allowance is made, where appropriate, for the effect of dynamic management and or policyholder actions in different circumstances: Management has some discretion in managing the exposure to financial options and guarantees, particularly within participating business.
Such dynamic management actions are reflected in the valuation of financial options and guarantees provided that such discretion: is consistent with established and justifiable practice taking into account policyholders reasonable expectations eg.
with due consideration of the Principles and Practices of Financial Management PPFM, in the South African business is subject to any contractual guarantees and regulatory or legal constraints has been passed through an appropriate approval process by the local Executive team and the Board, where applicable Assumptions that depend on the market performance such as bonus rates are set relative to the risk free reference rates subject to contractual guarantees and assuming that all market participants are subjected to the same market conditions Where credible evidence exists that persistency rates are linked to economic scenarios, allowance is made for dynamic policyholder behaviour in response to changes in economic conditions Modelled dynamic management and policyholders actions include the following: changes in future bonus rates subject to contractual guarantees, including removing all or part of previously declared non-vested balances where circumstances warrant such action dynamic lapse rates for the Bermuda business, and dynamic guaranteed annuity option take-up rates for the South African business driven by changes in economic conditions and management actions changes in the surrender values.
In determining the value of financial options and guarantees, an appropriate number of simulations are run to ensure that a reasonable degree of convergence of results has been obtained.
Emerging Markets The financial options and guarantees mainly relate to the guaranteed portion of smoothed bonus business, maturity guarantees and guaranteed annuity options.
As required by the applicable Actuarial Society of South Africa practice note, the value of the financial options and guarantees included in the statutory reserves in the South African businesses has been valued using a risk-neutral market consistent asset model, and is referred to as the Investment Guarantee Reserve IGR.
As the value of financial options and guarantees is held in local statutory reserves that form part of ANW, no further allowance is needed for the time value of financial options and guarantees.
The IGR includes an explicit discretionary margin to allow for the sensitivity of the reserve to market movements, including interest rates, equity levels and the volatility implicit in the pricing of derivative instruments in these markets.
The value of future anticipated releases of the discretionary margin is included in the VIF.
Old Mutual Wealth The financial options and guarantees mainly relate to guaranteed annuity options on German deferred annuity contracts and minimum investment return guarantees on French unit-linked investment products.
The time value of financial options and guarantees has reduced significantly over 2013 as a result of modelling changes made in Germany.
The majority of the value of financial options and guarantees for Old Mutual Wealth is held in local statutory reserves that form part of ANW.
257 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2013 A: MCEV policies continued A2: Methodology continued Bermuda The financial options and guarantees mainly relate to the guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits on variable annuity contracts.
Reserves for financial options and guarantees, calculated on a best estimate valuation basis consistent with MCEV principles, are included in ANW.
h Frictional costs of required capital From the shareholders perspective there is a cost due to restrictions on the distribution of required capital that is locked in entities within the Group.
Where material, an allowance has been made for the frictional costs in respect of the taxation on investment return income and capital gains and investment costs on the assets backing the required capital for covered business.
The allowance for taxation is based on the taxation rates applicable to investment earnings on assets backing the required capital.
The run-off pattern of the required capital is projected on an approximate basis over the lifetime of the underlying risks in line with drivers of the capital requirement.
The same drivers are used to split the total required capital between existing business and new business.
The allowance for frictional costs is independent of the allowance for the cost of residual non-hedgeable risks as described below.
i Cost of residual non-hedgeable risks CNHR Sufficient allowance for the majority of financial risks has been made in the PVFP and the time value of financial options and guarantees using techniques that are similar to the type of approaches used in capital markets.
In addition, the modelling of some non-hedgeable non-financial risks is incorporated as part of the calculation of the PVFP eg.
to the extent that expected operational losses are incorporated in the maintenance expense assumptions or the time value of financial options and guarantees eg.
dynamic policyholder behaviour such as the interaction of the investment scenario and the persistency rates.
Residual non-financial risks include, for example, liability risks such as mortality, longevity and morbidity risks: business risks such as persistency, expense and reinsurance credit risks: and operational risk.
For 31 December 2012, information reported for Old Mutual Bermuda, in addition to the allowance for residual non-hedgeable risks, CNHR includes an allowance for hedge ineffectiveness risk and credit spread risk, which are not modelled in the PVFP or TVOG calculations.
In 2013, Old Mutual Bermuda moved from a bottom-up MCEV calculation basis to an adjusted IFRS basis with the CNHR no longer calculated.
For 31 December 2013, information reported for Old Mutual Zimbabwe, the CNHR includes an allowance for financial as well as non-financial risks to allow for financial risks that are not allowed for in the PVFP due to insufficient market data.
An allowance is made in the CNHR to reflect uncertainty in the best estimate of shareholder cash flows as a result of both symmetric and asymmetric non-hedgeable risks since these risks cannot be hedged in deep and liquid capital markets and are managed, inter alia, by holding risk capital.
With the exception of operational risk, most residual non-hedgeable risks for the Group as a whole have a symmetric impact on shareholder value, ie.
commensurate upside and downside impacts.
The CNHR is calculated using a cost of capital approach, ie.
it is determined as the present value of capital charges for all future non-hedgeable risk capital requirements until the liabilities have run off.
The capital charge in each year is the product of the projected expected non-hedgeable risk capital held after allowance for some diversification benefits and the cost of capital charge.
The cost of capital charge therefore represents the return above the risk free reference rates that the market is deemed to demand for providing this capital.
The residual non-hedgeable risk capital measure is determined using an internal capital model based on appropriate shock scenarios consistent with a 99.5% confidence level over a one-year time horizon, and is calculated using the same methodology used to determine economic capital.
The internal capital model makes allowance for certain management actions, such as reductions in bonus rates, where deemed appropriate.
The residual non-hedgeable risk capital makes an allowance for non-linearities between hedgeable and non-hedgeable risks.
The following treatment is applied for diversification benefits in determining the residual non-hedgeable risk capital at a business unit level: Diversification benefits within the non-hedgeable risks of the covered business are recognised No diversification benefits are recognised between hedgeable and non-hedgeable risks of the covered business No diversification benefits are recognised between covered and non-covered business.
A cost of capital charge of 2.0% 2012: 2.0% has been applied to residual symmetric and asymmetric non-hedgeable capital at a business unit level over the life of the contracts.
This rate is derived by considering a market based view of required return on equity for the covered business, and then deducting risk free investment returns, frictional costs and an allowance for franchise value.
This translates into an equivalent cost of capital rate of approximately 2.4% 2012: 2.4% being applied to the diversified capital required in respect of such non-hedgeable risks for Emerging Markets and Old Mutual Wealth as a combined group no CNHR is calculated for Old Mutual Bermuda under the new valuation approach.
Old Mutual plc 258 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials j Participating business For participating business in Emerging Markets, the method of valuation makes assumptions about future bonus rates and the determination of profit allocation between policyholders and shareholders.
These assumptions are made on a basis consistent with other projection assumptions, especially the projected future risk free investment returns, established Company practice with due consideration of the PPFM for South African business, past external communication, any payout smoothing strategy, local market practice, regulatory contractual restrictions and bonus participation rules.
Where current benefit levels are higher than can be supported by the existing fund assets together with projected investment returns, a downward glide path in benefit levels is projected so that the policyholder fund would be exhausted on payment of the last benefit.
k Valuation of assets and treatment of unrealised losses The market values of assets, where quoted in deep and liquid markets, are based on the bid price on the reporting date.
Unquoted assets are valued according to IFRS and marked to model.
Further information on the valuation of assets can be found in note E1 in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
No smoothing of market values or unrealised gains losses is applied in determining the market value of assets.
l Asset mix The value of financial options and guarantees and PVFP where relevant are calculated with reference to assets that are projected using the actual asset allocation of the policyholder funds at the reporting date.
However, if the current asset mix is materially different to the long-term strategic asset allocation as a result of market movements, projected assets are assumed to revert to the long-term strategic asset allocation in the shortto medium-term as appropriate.
m Consolidation adjustments The MCEV result split by business unit takes account of both sides of any loan arrangements between Group companies, with the Group effect included in net other business.
n Look through principle PVFP and value of new business cash flow projections apply a look through approach.
They include the profits losses of owned service companies, eg.
distribution and administration entities, related to the management of the covered business.
Any profit margins that are included in investment management fees payable by the life assurance companies to the asset management subsidiaries have not been included in the value of in-force business or the value of new business on the grounds of materiality.
o Taxation In valuing shareholders cash flows, allowance is made in the cash flow projections for taxes in the relevant jurisdiction affecting the covered business.
Tax assumptions are based on best estimate assumptions, applying current local corporate tax legislation and practice together with known future changes and taking credit for any deferred tax assets.
The value of deferred tax assets is partly recognised in the MCEV.
Typically those tax assets are expected to be utilised in future by being offset against expected tax liabilities that are generated on expected profits emerging from in-force business.
MCEV may therefore understate the true economic value of such deferred tax assets because it does not allow for future new business sales which could affect the utilisation of such assets.
United Kingdom: The Emergency Budget that was held in June 2010 set in motion a series of reductions to the UKs mainstream corporation tax rate.
The impact of the corporation tax rate reducing from 23% down to 21%, applicable from April 2014 and the reduction to 20%, applicable from April 2015, have improved the Old Mutual Wealth MCEV position by 18 million.
South Africa: The Taxation Laws Amendment Bill was released in October 2013, effecting changes to the tax relief in respect of sales, administration and indirect expenses attributable to income incurred in individual and corporate policyholder funds effective from 1 January 2013.
This had the effect of increasing the expense relief ratio, which improved expense experience variances in 2013.
Further changes to taxation laws are anticipated in 2014 which are expected to have an adverse effect on post-tax earnings.
However no changes have been made to MCEV assumptions at 31 December 2013 to reflect these recent or anticipated changes until these changes are more certain.
p Value of debt Senior and subordinated debt securities are marked to market value for MCEV.
For IFRS reporting, debt is valued at either book value or fair value.
The IFRS value of total debt is 1,345 million 2012: 1,570 million and the MCEV value is 1,420 million 2012: 1,607 million.
Where either the principal or the coupon of the debt security has been swapped into an alternate currency, the fair value of these derivative instruments of 50 million 2012: 96 million has not been included in the value of debt: however, it is included in the Net Other Business value of 366 million 2012: 34 million Adjusted Group MCEV by line of business.
Further information relating to the debt securities can be found in Note E9 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
259 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2013 A: MCEV policies continued A2: Methodology continued q New business and renewals The market consistent value of new business VNB measures the value of the future profits expected to emerge from all new business sold, and in certain cases from premium increases to existing contracts, during the reporting period after allowance for the time value of financial options and guarantees, frictional costs and the cost of residual non-hedgeable risks associated with writing the new business.
VNB includes contractual renewal of premiums and recurring single premiums, where the level of premium is pre-defined and is reasonably predictable, and changes to existing contracts where these are not variations allowed for in the PVFP.
Non-contractual increments are treated similarly where the volume of such increments is reasonably predictable or likely eg.
where premiums are expected to increase in line with salary or price inflation.
Any variations in premiums on renewal of in-force business from that previously anticipated including deviations in non-contractual increases, deviations in recurrent single premiums and re-pricing of premiums for in-force business are treated as experience variances or economic variances on in-force business and not as new business.
The key principles applied in calculating VNB are noted below.
Economic assumptions at the start of the reporting period are used, except for OMLAC SA s non-profit annuities products where point of sale assumptions are used that are consistent with the pricing basis Demographic and operating assumptions at the end of the reporting period are used VNB is calculated at point of sale and rolled forward to the end of the reporting period Generally a stand-alone approach is used unless a marginal approach would better reflect the additional value to shareholders created through the activity of writing new business Expense allowances include all acquisition expenses, including any acquisition expense overruns.
Strategic business development expenses are excluded VNB is calculated net of tax, reinsurance and non-controlling interests Economic and operating variances are not attributed to VNB.
PVNBP is calculated at point of sale using premiums before reinsurance and applying a valuation approach that is consistent with the calculation of VNB.
r Analysis of MCEV earnings An analysis of MCEV earnings provides a reconciliation of the MCEV for covered business at the beginning of the reporting period and the MCEV for covered business at the end of the reporting period.
The analysis is completed on a post-tax basis after the deduction of minority interests.
Operating MCEV earnings are generated by the value of new business sold during the reporting period, the expected existing business contribution, operating experience variances, operating assumption changes and other operating variances: The value of new business includes the impact of new business strain on free surplus that arises, amongst other things, from the impact of initial expenses and additional required capital that is held in respect of such new business The expected existing business contribution is determined by projecting both actual assets and actual liabilities including assets backing the free surplus and required capital from the start of the reporting period to the end of the reporting period using expected real-world earned rates of return.
The expected existing business contribution is presented in two components: Expected earnings on free surplus and required capital and the expected change in VIF assuming that the assets earn the beginning of period risk free reference rates as well as the deterministic release of the time value of options and guarantees, frictional costs and CNHR: and Additional expected earnings on free surplus and required capital and the additional expected change in VIF as a result of real-world expected earned rates of return on assets in excess of beginning of period risk free reference rates Transfers from VIF and required capital to free surplus includes the release of required capital and modelled profits from VIF into free surplus in respect of business that was in-force at the beginning of the reporting period.
These transfers do not change the overall MCEV.
Operating experience variances reflect the impact of deviations of the actual operational experience during the reporting period from the expected operational experience.
It is analysed before operating assumption changes, ie.
such variances are assessed against opening operating assumptions, and reflects the total impact of in-force and new business variances Development costs are reported separately from other expense experience variances in the MCEV analysis and reflect the cost of projects related to the development of new and existing business, infrastructure and systems, from which we expect to earn higher profits either through increased sales or lower expenses in future.
Old Mutual plc 260 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials Operating assumption changes incorporate the impact of changes to operating assumptions from those assumed at the beginning of the reporting period to those assumed at the end of the reporting period.
As VNB is calculated using operating assumptions at the end of the reporting period, this impact only relates to the value of in-force business at the end of the reporting period that was also in-force at the beginning of the reporting period Other operating variances include model improvements, changes in methodology and the impact of certain management actions, such as a change in the asset allocation backing required capital Total MCEV earnings also includes economic variances and other non-operating variances: Economic variances incorporate the impact of changes in economic assumptions from the beginning of the reporting period to the end of the reporting period eg.
different opening and closing interest rates and equity volatility as well as the impact on earnings resulting from actual returns on assets being different to the expected returns on those assets as reflected in the expected existing business contribution, it therefore also includes the impact of economic variances in the reporting period on projected future earnings Other non-operating variances include the impact of regulatory driven changes, the impact of changes to modelled taxation and certain costs to ensure consistency of treatment with IFRS adjusted operating profit.
An analysis of MCEV earnings requires non-operating closing adjustments.
These mainly include exchange rate movements and capital transfers such as those in respect of payment of dividends and acquiring divesting businesses.
Return on MCEV for covered business is calculated as the operating MCEV earnings after tax divided by opening MCEV in business unit reporting currency, except for core covered business and total covered business where the calculations are performed in sterling.
The anticipated expected existing business contribution for the 12 months following the year ended 31 December 2013 at the reference rate as well as in excess of the reference rate is provided to assist users of the MCEV supplementary information in forecasting operating MCEV earnings.
For comparability against current year earnings, the average exchange rates over 2013 are used.
Therefore the expected existing business contribution for the financial year ending 31 December 2014 ultimately reflected in the 2014 financial statements may differ from these results.
s Group MCEV presentation The presentation of Group MCEV consists of the covered business under the MCEV methodology and the non-covered business valued as the unadjusted IFRS net asset value, with the exception of US Asset Management that is valued at IFRS NAV allowing for the value of the loan note held with Old Mutual plc.
A mark to market adjustment is therefore not performed for external borrowings and other non-covered business items not already reported on a mark to market basis under IFRS.
t Adjusted operating Group MCEV earnings For all businesses, adjusted operating MCEV earnings excludes goodwill impairment, the impact of acquisition accounting, option revaluations related to long-term incentive schemes, the impact of closure of unclaimed shares trusts, profit loss on acquisition disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments, dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities, and fair value profits losses on certain Group debt instruments.
For long-term business and general insurance businesses, adjusted operating Group MCEV earnings are based on long-term and short-term investment returns respectively, include investment returns on life fund investments in Group equity and debt instruments, and are stated net of income tax attributable to policyholder returns.
For the US Asset Management business it includes compensation costs in respect of certain long-term incentive schemes defined as non-controlling interests in accordance with IFRS.
A3: Assumptions Non-economic assumptions The appropriate non-economic projection assumptions for future experience including mortality, persistency and expense assumptions are determined using best estimate assumptions of each component of future cash flows, are specific to the entity concerned and have regard to past, current and expected future experience where sufficient evidence exists eg.
longevity improvements and AIDS-related claims as derived from both entity-specific and industry data where deemed appropriate.
Material assumptions are actively reviewed by means of detailed experience investigations and updated, as deemed appropriate.
These assumptions are based on the covered business being part of a going concern.
Although favourable changes in maintenance expenses, such as productivity improvements, are generally not included beyond what has been achieved by the end of the reporting period.
Maintenance expense assumptions determined for certain businesses in Old Mutual Wealth do make some considerations for future cost reductions: Expense assumptions for run-off businesses consider cost reductions in future in line with management actions that would be taken as in-force volumes decrease Expense assumptions for the UK Legacy business reflect anticipated cost reductions arising from the outsourcing of the administration function for this business.
261 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2013 A: MCEV policies continued A3: Assumptions continued The management expenses attributable to life assurance business have been analysed between expenses relating to the acquisition of new business, maintenance of in-force business including investment management expenses and development projects.
All expected maintenance expense overruns affecting the covered business are allowed for in the calculations The MCEV makes provision for future development costs and one-off expenses relating to covered businesses that are known with sufficient certainty, based on three year business plans.
The provision is reduced to the extent that projects have associated benefits that are directly quantifiable and are considered to emerge within a reasonable timeframe eg.
over the business plan period In line with legislation in Germany, a specified proportion of miscellaneous profits are shared with policyholders.
The revenue on in-force business can be reduced by various expense items incurred in any year Unallocated Group holding company expenses have been included to the extent that they are allocated to the covered business.
The table below shows the future expenses attributable to the long-term business.
The allocation of these expenses is based on the proportion that the management expenses incurred by the covered businesses bears to the total management expenses incurred by the Group.
% At At 31 December 31 December Proportion of Group holding company expenses attributable to long-term business 2013 2012 Emerging Markets 17 18 Old Mutual Wealth 8 9 1 Old Mutual Bermuda n a n a Total 25 27 1 Based on materiality, no Group holding expenses are allocated to Old Mutual Bermuda.
Economic assumptions An active basis is applied to set pre-tax investment and economic assumptions to reflect the economic conditions prevailing on the reporting date.
Economic assumptions are set consistently, eg.
future bonus rates are set at levels consistent with the investment return assumptions.
Under a market consistent valuation, economic assumptions are determined such that projected cash flows are valued in line with the prices of similar cash flows that are traded on the capital markets.
In practice for the PVFP calculation, a certainty equivalent method is used which assumes that actual assets held earn risk free reference rates including any liquidity adjustment, before tax and investment management expenses, and all the cash flows are discounted using risk free reference rates including any liquidity adjustment which are gross of tax and investment management expenses.
The deterministic certainty equivalent method is a valuation technique that ensures consistency with current market prices and over time the expectation is that risk premiums will still be earned on assets such as equities and corporate bonds.
Due to the lack of available market data for Old Mutual Zimbabwe, weighted average investment return forecasts are used to determine appropriate economic assumptions.
a Risk free reference rates and inflation The risk free reference rates, reinvestment rates and discount rates are determined with reference to the swap yield curve that is appropriate to the currency of the cash flows.
For Europe the swap yield curve is obtained from Bloomberg For Bermuda the swap yield curve is sourced from a third party market consistent asset model that is used to generate the economic scenarios that are required to determine the value of financial options and guarantees For Emerging Markets the swap yield curve is sourced internally using market data provided by the Bond Exchange of South Africa and it is checked for reasonability relative to the Bloomberg swap yield curve.
At 31 December 2013, no adjustments have been made to swap yields to allow for liquidity premiums or credit risk premiums, apart from a liquidity premium adjustment to OMLAC SA s immediate annuity and fixed bond businesses.
A liquidity premium adjustment is applied to OMLAC SA s fixed bond business as OMLAC SA holds a portfolio of non-government bonds which have a market yield in excess of the risk free rate and the duration of the asset portfolio and the liability duration are a good match meaning the asset portfolio is held to maturity.
Cash flows on this product are predictable and the Company has adequate liquidity to withstand a substantial increase in lapses at all durations without having to sell bonds which further strengthens the case for applying a liquidity premium.
It is the directors view that a proportion of non-government bond spreads at 31 December 2013 is attributable to a liquidity premium rather than only to credit and default allowances and that returns in excess of swap rates can be achieved, rather than entire spreads being lost to worsening default experience.
For OMLAC SA s immediate annuity business the currency, credit quality and duration of the actual bond portfolios were considered and adjusted risk free reference rates were derived at 31 December 2013 by adding 50 bps 2012: 50 bps of liquidity premium for this business to the swap rates used for setting investment return and discounting assumptions.
For OMLAC SA s fixed bond products 40 bps Old Mutual plc 262 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials 2012: 45 bps of liquidity premium was added to the swap rates.
These adjustments reflect the liquidity premium component in non-government bond spreads over swap rates that is expected to be earned on the portfolios.
In deriving the liquidity premia at 31 December 2013, we compared the yields of similar durations on South African government bonds and bonds issues by state-owned enterprises.
At those durations where swap yields are not available, eg.
due to lack of a sufficiently liquid or deep swap market, the swap curve is extended using appropriate interpolation or extrapolation techniques.
The risk free reference spot yield curve has been derived from mid swap rates at the reporting date.
Expense inflation rates have been derived by comparing real rates of return against nominal risk free rates for each territory, with adjustments for higher business unit specific inflation where applicable.
The risk free reference spot yields excluding any applicable liquidity adjustments at various terms for each of the significant regions are provided in the table that follows.
Risk free reference spot yields excluding any applicable liquidity adjustments % GBP EUR USD ZAR At 31 December 2013 1 year 0.7 0.4 0.3 5.7 5 years 2.2 1.3 1.8 7.7 10 years 3.1 2.2 3.3 8.8 20 years 3.6 2.9 4.1 9.7 At 31 December 2012 1 year 0.7 0.3 0.3 5.1 5 years 1.0 0.8 0.9 6.0 10 years 1.9 1.6 1.9 7.1 20 years 2.9 2.2 2.8 7.5 b Volatilities and correlations Where cash flows contain financial options and guarantees that do not move linearly with market movements, asset cash flows are projected and all cash flows are discounted using risk-neutral stochastic models.
These models project the assets and liabilities using a distribution of asset returns where all asset types, on average, earn the same risk free reference rates.
Apart from the risk free reference spot yields specified above, other key economic assumptions for the calibration of economic scenarios include the implied volatilities for each asset class and correlations of investment returns between different asset classes.
For Old Mutual Bermuda, implied volatilities and correlations are determined for each global equity and bond index modelled.
The volatility assumptions for the calibration of economic scenarios that are used in the stochastic models are, where possible, based on those implied from appropriate derivative prices such as equity options or swaptions in respect of guarantees that are dependent on changes in equity markets and interest rates respectively as observed on the valuation date.
However, historic implied and historic observed volatilities of the underlying instruments and expert opinion are considered where there are concerns over the depth or liquidity of the market.
Where strict adherence to the above is not possible, for example where markets only exist at short durations such as the swaption market in South Africa, interpolation or extrapolation techniques, and where appropriate, historical data are used to derive volatility assumptions for the full term structure of the liabilities.
Correlation assumptions between asset classes that are used in stochastic models are based on an assessment of historic relationships.
Where historic data is used in setting volatility or correlation assumptions, a suitable time period is considered for analysing historic data including consideration of the appropriateness of historical data where economic conditions were materially different to current conditions.
c Exchange rates All MCEV figures are calculated in local currency and translated to sterling using the appropriate exchange rates as detailed in note A1 of the Group financial statements.
d Expected asset returns in excess of the risk free reference rates The expected asset returns in excess of the risk free reference rates have no bearing on the calculated MCEV other than the calculation of the expected existing business contribution in the analysis of MCEV earnings.
Real-world economic assumptions are determined with reference to one-year forward risk free reference rates applicable to the currency of the liabilities at the start of the reporting period.
All other economic assumptions, eg.
future bonus rates, are set at levels consistent with the real-world investment return assumptions.
Equity and property risk premiums incorporate both historical relationships and the directors view of future projected returns in each region over the analysis period.
Pre-tax real-world economic assumptions are determined as follows unchanged from prior period : The equity risk premium is 3.7% for Africa and 3% for Europe The cash return equals the one-year risk free reference rate for all regions The property risk premium is 1.5% in Africa and 2% in Europe Returns on corporate bonds reference actual yields from assets held No risk premium is assumed for Old Mutual Bermudas Variable Annuity policyholder asset portfolios.
According to the simplified analysis of earnings approach, earnings for the Old Mutual Bermuda business no longer reflect an expected return component.
263 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2013 B: Segment information B1: Components of Group MCEV and Adjusted Group MCEV m At At 31 December 31 December Notes 2013 2012 Adjusted net worth attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent 5,450 5,774 Equity 7,270 7,816 Adjustment to IFRS net asset value C4 1,294 1,360 Adjustment to remove perpetual preferred callable securities 526 682 Value of in-force business B3 3,306 3,401 Present value of future profits 3,752 3,946 Additional time value of financial options and guarantees 2 53 Frictional costs 222 221 Cost of residual non-hedgeable risks 222 271 Group MCEV 8,756 9,175 Adjustments to bring Group investments to market value Adjustment to bring listed subsidiary Nedbank to market value 1,157 1,281 1 Adjustment for value of own shares in ESOP schemes 123 126 Adjustment for present value of Black Economic Empowerment scheme deferred consideration 201 245 Adjustment to bring external debt to market value 75 37 Adjusted Group MCEV 10,162 10,790 Group MCEV value per share pence 178.8 187.5 Adjusted Group MCEV per share pence 207.5 220.5 Number of shares in issue at the end of the financial period less treasury shares millions 4,897 4,893 Return on Group MCEV RoEV per annum from core operations 9.1% 6.7% Return on Group MCEV RoEV per annum from continuing non-core operations 0.3% 1.0% Return on Group MCEV RoEV per annum from discontinued operations 0.0% 0.3% 2 Return on Group MCEV RoEV per annum 9.4% 8.0% 1 Includes adjustment for value of excess own shares in employee share scheme trusts.
The movement in value between 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2013 is the net effect of the increase in the Old Mutual plc share price, the reduction in excess own shares following employee share grants during the period and the reduction in overall shares held due to exercises of rights to take delivery of, or net settle, share grants during the financial period.
2 The RoEV is calculated as the adjusted operating Group MCEV earnings after tax and non-controlling interests of 867 million December 2012: 776 million divided by the opening Group MCEV.
Old Mutual plc 264 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials B2: Adjusted operating MCEV earnings for the covered business m Total Core Non-core Discontinued covered covered Emerging Old Mutual covered covered 1 Year ended 31 December 2013 business business Markets Wealth business business Adjusted operating Group MCEV earnings before tax 643 612 450 162 31 Tax on adjusted operating Group MCEV earnings 160 161 122 39 1 Adjusted operating Group MCEV earnings after tax 483 451 328 123 32 m Total Core Non-core Discontinued covered covered Emerging Old Mutual covered covered 1 Year ended 31 December 2012 business business Markets Wealth business business Adjusted operating Group MCEV earnings before tax 571 454 459 5 99 18 Tax on adjusted operating Group MCEV earnings 118 118 131 13 Adjusted operating Group MCEV earnings after tax 453 336 328 8 99 18 1 Discontinued covered business includes earnings from previously owned Nordic business.
B3: Components of MCEV of the covered business m Total Core Non-core covered covered Emerging Old Mutual covered 1 2 At 31 December 2013 business business Markets Wealth business Adjusted net worth 2,561 2,196 1,621 575 365 Free surplus 870 757 508 249 113 Required capital 1,691 1,439 1,113 326 252 Value of in-force 3,306 3,306 1,332 1,974 Present value of future profits 3,752 3,752 1,660 2,092 3 Additional time value of financial options and guarantees 2 2 2 Frictional costs 222 222 206 16 Cost of residual non-hedgeable risks 222 222 122 100 MCEV 5,867 5,502 2,953 2,549 365 m Total Core Non-core covered covered Emerging Old Mutual covered 1 2 At 31 December 2012 business business Markets Wealth business Adjusted net worth 2,984 2,304 1,838 466 680 Free surplus 945 698 526 172 247 Required capital 2,039 1,606 1,312 294 433 Value of in-force 3,401 3,456 1,478 1,978 55 Present value of future profits 3,946 3,950 1,828 2,122 4 3 Additional time value of financial options and guarantees 53 14 14 39 Frictional costs 221 220 207 13 1 Cost of residual non-hedgeable risks 271 260 143 117 11 MCEV 6,385 5,760 3,316 2,444 625 1 The required capital in respect of Emerging Markets is partially covered by the market value of the Groups investments in banking in South Africa.
On consolidation these investments are shown separately.
2 For 2013, the valuation basis for Old Mutual Bermuda has been simplified from a full bottom-up MCEV calculation to an adjusted IFRS basis and the valuation therefore does not include a value of in-force component.
3 The time value of options and guarantees is fully reflected in reserves held as part of ANW in Emerging Markets and Old Mutual Bermuda, and is mostly covered by reserves held in Old Mutual Wealth.
The significant reduction in the time value of options and guarantees in Old Mutual Wealth in 2013 is due to modelling changes.
265 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2013 B: Segment information continued B4: Analysis of covered business MCEV earnings after tax m Year ended 31 December 2013 Year ended 31 December 2012 Adjusted Free Required net Value of Free Required Adjusted Value of Total covered business surplus capital worth in-force MCEV surplus capital net worth in-force MCEV Opening MCEV 945 2,039 2,984 3,401 6,385 685 1,996 2,681 4,536 7,217 New business value 261 148 113 325 212 293 163 130 327 197 Expected existing business contribution reference rate 23 50 73 126 199 20 71 91 156 247 Expected existing business contribution in excess of reference rate 6 10 16 38 54 3 29 32 49 81 Transfers from VIF and required capital to free surplus 666 170 496 496 695 216 479 479 Experience variances 47 38 9 14 5 14 17 3 6 9 Assumption changes 6 5 1 39 38 34 7 27 7 34 Other operating variance 26 5 21 72 51 26 18 8 107 115 Operating MCEV earnings 367 76 443 40 483 419 75 494 41 453 Economic variances 197 21 218 157 375 258 3 261 259 520 Other non-operating variance 154 178 24 30 54 284 240 44 3 47 Total MCEV earnings 718 81 637 167 804 393 318 711 215 926 Closing adjustments 793 267 1,060 262 1,322 133 275 408 1,350 1,758 Capital and dividend flows 658 7 651 651 41 3 38 1 39 Foreign exchange variance 105 274 379 320 699 54 145 199 139 338 MCEV of sold business 15 15 15 120 127 247 1,212 1,459 1 Other 45 45 58 13 Closing MCEV 870 1,691 2,561 3,306 5,867 945 2,039 2,984 3,401 6,385 2 Return on MCEV RoEV per annum 7.6% 6.3% 1 Other includes the change in valuation basis in Old Mutual Bermuda, the inclusion of certain African entities Zimbabwe, Kenya, Malawi, Swaziland and Nigeria on an MCEV basis and an adjustment to allow for non-controlling interests in Zimbabwe.
2 Return on MCEV for total covered business is calculated as the operating MCEV earnings after tax divided by opening MCEV in sterling.
m Year ended 31 December 2013 Year ended 31 December 2012 Adjusted net Value of Adjusted net Value of worth in-force MCEV worth in-force MCEV Experience Variances 9 14 5 3 6 9 Persistency 13 15 2 51 10 61 Risk 38 5 43 52 52 Expenses 24 1 23 48 12 36 Development costs 51 1 50 43 1 44 Other 41 8 33 9 15 24 Assumption changes 1 39 38 27 7 34 Persistency 16 3 19 12 25 13 Risk 5 5 13 37 50 Expenses 18 12 6 12 12 24 Development costs 18 18 15 15 Other 6 6 12 10 2 12 m Year ended 31 December 2014 Free Required Adjusted Value of surplus capital net worth in-force MCEV Expected existing business contribution reference rate 30 61 91 144 235 Expected existing business contribution in excess of reference rate 5 10 15 43 58 Old Mutual plc 266 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials B5: Analysis per business unit m Year ended 31 December 2013 Total Core Non-core Discontinued covered covered Emerging Old Mutual covered covered 1 2 business business Markets Wealth business business Opening MCEV 6,385 5,760 3,316 2,444 625 New business value 212 212 136 76 Expected existing business contribution reference rate 199 199 169 30 Expected existing business contribution in excess of reference rate 54 54 30 24 Experience variances 5 27 1 28 32 Assumption changes 38 38 12 26 Other operating variance 51 51 4 47 Operating MCEV earnings 483 451 328 123 32 Economic variances 375 355 241 114 20 Other non-operating variance 54 54 8 46 Total MCEV earnings 804 752 561 191 52 Closing adjustments 1,322 1,010 924 86 312 Capital and dividend flows 651 300 187 113 351 Foreign exchange variance 699 701 713 12 2 MCEV of acquired sold business 15 15 15 3 Other 13 24 24 37 Closing MCEV 5,867 5,502 2,953 2,549 365 4 Return on MCEV RoEV per annum 7.6% 7.8% 11.0% 5.0% 4.9% Transfers from VIF and required capital to free surplus m Total Core Non-core Discontinued covered covered Emerging Old Mutual covered covered 1 2 Year ended 31 December 2013 business business Markets Wealth business business Transfer from value of in-force 496 496 189 307 Transfer from required capital 170 170 130 40 Transfer to free surplus 666 666 319 347 m Total Core Non-core Discontinued covered covered Emerging Old Mutual covered covered 1 2 Year ended 31 December 2013 business business Markets Wealth business business Experience variances 5 27 1 28 32 Persistency 2 2 9 11 Risk 43 43 40 3 Expenses 23 23 17 6 Development costs 50 50 16 34 Other 33 1 3 2 32 Assumption changes 38 38 12 26 Persistency 19 19 25 6 Risk 5 5 3 2 Expenses 6 6 25 19 Development costs 18 18 15 3 Other 12 12 12 1 A simplified analysis of earnings approach has been adopted for Old Mutual Bermuda according to the new adjusted IFRS valuation approach.
2 Discontinued covered business relates to MCEV information for the previously owned Nordic business.
3 Other includes the change in valuation basis in Old Mutual Bermuda, the inclusion of certain African entities Zimbabwe, Kenya, Malawi, Swaziland and Nigeria on an MCEV basis and an adjustment to allow for non-controlling interests in Zimbabwe.
4 Return on MCEV is calculated as the operating MCEV earnings after tax divided by opening MCEV.
This is calculated in local currency, apart from total covered and core covered business, which are calculated in sterling.
For Emerging Markets for 2013, this has been calculated after adjusting the opening balance for the inclusion of certain African entities as above on an MCEV basis and an adjustment to allow for non-controlling interests in Zimbabwe.
267 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2013 B: Segment information continued B5: Analysis per business unit continued m Year ended 31 December 2012 Total Core Non-core Discontinued covered covered Emerging Old Mutual covered covered 1 business business Markets Wealth business business Opening MCEV 7,217 5,718 3,172 2,546 66 1,433 New business value 197 197 135 62 Expected existing business contribution reference rate 247 239 193 46 8 Expected existing business contribution in excess of reference rate 81 55 32 23 26 Experience variances 9 48 29 19 39 18 Assumption changes 34 5 34 29 29 Other operating variance 115 112 37 75 3 Operating MCEV earnings 453 336 328 8 99 18 Economic variances 520 403 281 122 117 Other non-operating variance 47 29 26 3 18 Total MCEV earnings 926 710 583 127 216 Closing adjustments 1,758 668 439 229 343 1,433 Capital and dividend flows 39 321 132 189 360 Foreign exchange variance 338 322 307 15 17 1 MCEV of acquired sold business 1,459 25 25 1,434 Closing MCEV 6,385 5,760 3,316 2,444 625 2 Return on MCEV RoEV per annum 6.3% 5.9% 10.7% 0.3% 154.0% 1.3% Transfers from VIF and required capital to free surplus m Total Core Non-core Discontinued covered covered Emerging Old Mutual covered covered 1 Year ended 31 December 2012 business business Markets Wealth business business Transfer from value of in-force 479 540 220 320 61 Transfer from required capital 216 190 153 37 26 Transfer to free surplus 695 730 373 357 35 m Total Core Non-core Discontinued covered covered Emerging Old Mutual covered covered 1 Year ended 31 December 2012 business business Markets Wealth business business Experience variances 9 48 29 19 39 18 Persistency 61 22 1 23 39 Risk 52 52 46 6 Expenses 36 38 16 22 2 Development costs 44 44 25 19 Other 24 40 33 7 2 18 Assumption changes 34 5 34 29 29 Persistency 13 32 6 26 19 Risk 50 50 49 1 Expenses 24 4 6 2 20 Development costs 15 15 15 Other 12 2 2 10 1 Discontinued covered business relates to MCEV information for the previously owned Nordic business.
2 Return on MCEV is calculated as the operating MCEV earnings after tax divided by opening MCEV.
Old Mutual plc 268 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials Results highlights Core covered business Favourable market performance led to positive economic variances of 241 million in Emerging Markets and 114 million in Old Mutual Wealth Experience variances include development costs of 50 million.
These costs reflect the cost of projects related to the development of new and existing business, infrastructure and systems.
Excluding these costs, experience variances are a positive 23 million for the year The depreciation of the rand against sterling over 2013 has led to reduced earnings from Emerging Markets in sterling and foreign exchange translation losses in MCEV closing adjustments.
Emerging Markets New business: VNB increased by 16% in rand compared to 2012 mainly due to higher sales volumes in Mass Foundation Cluster, increased single premium savings sales in Retail Affluent and annuity sales in Corporate Segment.
Margins were however reduced by unfavourable operating assumption changes implemented at the end of 2013 including the strengthening of persistency assumptions in Mass Foundation Cluster and an expense allocation change in Mexico.
Experience variances: Experience variances are a positive 17 million after excluding the development costs of 16 million.
Positive mortality experience on protection business was partially offset by negative expense variances and worsening persistency experience on the Mass Foundation Cluster protection business.
Positive expense variances in South African business units were more than offset by negative expense variances arising from central costs and costs in other emerging markets businesses particularly in the Mexican business and those African businesses which are still sub-scale.
Operating assumption changes: Assumption changes include the strengthening of persistency assumptions used for Mass Foundation Cluster products including distinguishing between debit order and stop order persistency and an increased provision for development expenditure.
These impacts are partially offset by the lowering of per-policy maintenance expense assumptions in Mass Foundation Cluster following the significant growth in the size of this business and the achievement of unit cost efficiencies.
Other operating variances: This includes various modelling changes and management actions.
The most significant impacts relate to the effect of changes to the modelling of annual premium and cover increases on Mass Foundation Cluster funeral products and an improvement in the methodology used to value capital preservation options sold with Retail Affluent in-payment annuity products.
These effects were largely offsetting.
Economic variances: Economic variances are mainly due to favourable investment performance on policyholder and shareholder funds, which include growth in local equity markets, particularly in South Africa, Zimbabwe and Malawi, and increased returns from assets invested in overseas markets due to the depreciation of the rand.
Other non-operating variances: Negative non-operating variances in 2013 include the impact of refinements to the way in which shareholder tax is reflected in MCEV models.
Closing adjustments: Significant net transfer items relate to the purchase of the Latin American businesses and the purchase of additional African operations in Ghana and Nigeria, as well as net dividends paid after allowing for dividends received from Nedbank and the Property & Casualty business.
In addition, the significant negative foreign exchange variance has resulted from the depreciation of the rand against sterling over 2013.
Old Mutual Wealth New business: VNB increased by 23% compared to 2012, largely due to lower acquisition costs following a number of cost saving measures implemented at the end of 2012.
This impact was partially offset by a shift in UK Platform sales to products on less profitable charging structures.
Overall sales for Old Mutual Wealth have declined slightly, with lower volumes from closed businesses mostly offset by improved sales volumes from Core and Manage for Value Open businesses.
Expected existing business contribution: The reduction in the expected existing business contribution compared to 2012 is mainly a result of lower risk-free yields at the start of 2013 used to calculate the expected investment return.
In addition, the sale of Finland in 2012 has reduced the value of expected transfers in 2013.
Experience variances: Experience variances are a positive 6 million after excluding development costs of 34 million including Wealth Interactive, Digital and the second phase of the Retail Distribution Review systems project.
Positive persistency experience in the International business and positive mortality experience on protection products in Switzerland and Germany were partially offset by expense over-runs in the International business.
Operating assumption changes: Assumption changes are largely driven by the strengthening of per-policy maintenance expense assumptions in the International business and the reduction in assumed switching fee income in the International business recorded in other.
Persistency assumption changes are driven by the lightening of persistency assumptions on the UK Legacy unit-linked business, partially offset by the impact of anticipated transfers to lower margin charging structures on the UK Platform.
Other operating variances: The positive impact is mainly due to modelling changes implemented in the valuation of the German business.
Other operating variances also include largely offsetting effects from the reduction in the CNHR due to improvements made to the assumed run off of risk capital and refinements to the pattern of assumed expenses in Germany as the business runs off.
269 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2013 B: Segment information continued B5: Analysis per business unit continued Economic variances: Favourable economic variances were mainly due to investment gains on policyholder funds, which include favourable UK equity market performance, partially offset by the adverse impact of higher yields on the value of in-force business.
Other non-operating variances: Negative non-operating variances include the impact of changes in regulatory conditions of 24 million in Germany and 14 million in Switzerland, as well as costs related to the Nordic divestment of 13 million and the outsourcing of administration in the UK business of 10 million.
These impacts are partially offset by the effect of reducing the UK shareholder tax rate from 23% to 20%.
Closing adjustments: Net transfers consist largely of the payment of dividends to Old Mutual plc.
In addition, net transfers include capital contributions made to the UK Platform asset management business.
MCEV of acquired sold business consists of the release of a tax provision related to the sale of the Finnish business.
Non-core covered business Old Mutual Bermuda As a result of the change to a simplified analysis of earnings approach, all earnings are recorded under other operating experience variances, apart from variable annuity guarantee performance net of hedge performance and seed capital gains and losses, which are recorded in economic variances.
Experience variances: Positive experience is largely driven by favourable variable annuity persistency experience of 9 million and assumption changes of 10 million following the five year anniversary top-up period.
In addition, there have been positive contributions from spread income on OM Group UK Limited loan notes of 7 million net of interest credited to fixed annuity business, and an excess of fee income over operating and commission expenses of 4 million.
Economic variances: Favourable economic variances are largely due to positive variable annuity guarantee performance of 14 million net of hedge experience driven by the rise in US interest rates.
In addition, economic variances include unrealised gains on seed capital investments of 7 million.
Closing adjustments: Capital and dividend flows are made up of the repatriation of 351 million of capital resources via the cancellation of OM Group UK Limited loan notes.
Other closing adjustments consist of the valuation basis change from a bottom-up MCEV calculation basis to an adjusted IFRS basis of 37 million.
Old Mutual plc 270 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials C: Other supporting information C1: Value of new business after tax The tables below set out the regional analysis of the value of new business VNB after tax.
New business profitability is measured by both the ratio of the VNB to the present value of new business premiums PVNBP as well as to the annual premium equivalent APE, and shown under PVNBP margin and APE margin below.
APE is calculated as recurring premiums plus 10% of single premiums.
Old Mutual Bermuda is excluded from the tables below as it is closed to new business.
m Annualised PVNBP recurring Single capitalisation PVNBP 1 Year ended 31 December 2013 premiums premiums PVNBP factors APE VNB margin APE margin Core covered business 466 6,470 8,965 5.4 1,113 212 2.4% 19% 2 Emerging Markets 355 1,513 3,409 5.3 507 136 4.0% 27% Old Mutual Wealth 111 4,957 5,556 5.4 606 76 1.4% 13% Total covered business 466 6,470 8,965 5.4 1,113 212 2.4% 19% m Annualised PVNBP recurring Single capitalisation PVNBP 1 Year ended 31 December 2012 premiums premiums PVNBP factors APE VNB margin APE margin Core covered business 517 5,953 8,665 5.2 1,112 197 2.3% 18% 3 Emerging Markets 370 1,321 3,331 5.4 502 135 4.1% 27% Old Mutual Wealth 147 4,632 5,334 4.8 610 62 1.2% 10% Total covered business 517 5,953 8,665 5.2 1,112 197 2.3% 18% 1 The PVNBP capitalisation factors are calculated as follows: PVNBP single premiums annualised recurring premiums.
2 New business figures for Africa excl.
SA net of minority interests, other than Namibia, are included under Emerging Markets for the first time in 2013.
This includes new business annualised recurring premiums of 15 million, single premiums of 49 million, APE of 20 million and VNB of 2 million in respect of the life business in Zimbabwe, Malawi, Kenya, Swaziland and Nigeria.
2012 information has not been restated to reflect this change.
3 New business figures for Africa excl.
SA gross of minority interests, other than Namibia, were not included in the 2012 information reported above as no value of new business and PVNBP calculations were reported for these businesses in 2012.
The amounts for 2012, in respect of the life business in Zimbabwe, Malawi, Kenya, Swaziland and Nigeria are new business single premiums of 37 million, annualised recurring premiums of 17 million, and APE of 21 million.
Additional new business written in the Group The value of some of the new individual unit trust linked retirement annuities and pension fund asset management business written by the Emerging Markets long-term business of 1,011 million 2012: 1,093 million is excluded from VNB above as the profits in this business arise in the asset management business.
The value of new business also excludes premium increases arising from indexation arrangements in respect of existing business, as these are already included in the value of in-force business.
Additionally, new business single premiums of 202 million, annualised recurring premiums of 33 million, and APE of 53 million, in respect of the life business in India and China have been excluded from 2013 information above, as no value of new business and PVNBP calculations have been performed for these businesses.
271 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2013 C: Other supporting information continued C2: Adjustments applied in determining total Group MCEV earnings before tax m Year ended 31 December 2013 Year ended 31 December 2012 NonNonCovered covered Total Covered covered Total business business Group business business Group MCEV IFRS MCEV MCEV IFRS MCEV Income expense Goodwill impairment and amortisation of non-covered business acquired intangible assets and impact of acquisition accounting 10 10 7 7 Economic variances 513 6 507 657 11 646 Other non-operating variances 57 57 56 56 Loss on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 4 4 12 12 Other Group adjustments related to Nordic disposal 13 14 1 14 615 601 Restructuring costs 10 10 20 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities 42 42 42 42 Premium paid on early repayment of senior debt 71 71 US Asset Management equity plans 38 38 13 13 Fair value losses gains on Group debt instruments 31 31 57 57 Adjusting items 433 43 390 587 486 1,073 Adjusting items from continuing operations 446 57 389 605 113 492 Adjusting items from discontinued operations 13 14 1 18 599 581 Total MCEV adjusting items 433 43 390 587 486 1,073 C3: Other movements in IFRS net equity impacting Group MCEV m Year ended 31 December 2013 Year ended 31 December 2012 NonNonCovered covered Total Covered covered Total business business Group business business Group MCEV IFRS MCEV MCEV IFRS MCEV Fair value movements 17 17 328 328 Net investment hedge 43 43 160 160 Currency translation differences exchange differences on translating foreign operations 699 688 1,387 338 677 1,015 Aggregate tax effects of items taken directly to or transferred from equity 10 10 9 9 1 Other movements 15 15 1,444 1,449 5 Net income recognised directly into equity 684 618 1,302 1,782 613 1,169 2 Capital and dividend flows for the year 651 268 383 24 1,238 1,214 3 Other 13 10 3 Net sale of treasury shares 55 55 8 8 Premium on preferred securities purchased 21 21 Other shares issued 11 11 33 33 Change in share-based payment reserve 48 48 62 62 Other movements in net equity 1,322 267 1,589 1,758 522 2,280 1 December 2012 includes the sale of the Finnish branch in Old Mutual Wealth, the impact of the IAS 19 restatement and the transfer of the Nordic covered MCEV balance on disposal.
2 December 2013 capital and dividend flows from the covered business includes the repatriation of funds from Old Mutual Bermuda to Old Mutual plc of 351 million.
December 2012 capital and dividend flows from the covered business include the purchase of the businesses in Africa by Emerging Markets from Old Mutual plc and the capital injection of 360 million into Old Mutual Bermuda.
The special dividend of 915 million, paid in 2012, is included in non-covered business.
3 Other for covered business includes the change in valuation basis in Old Mutual Bermuda, the inclusion of certain African entities Zimbabwe, Kenya, Malawi, Swaziland and Nigeria on an MCEV basis and an adjustment to allow for non-controlling interests in Zimbabwe.
Old Mutual plc 272 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials C4: Reconciliation of MCEV adjusted net worth to IFRS net asset value for the covered business The table below provides a reconciliation of the MCEV adjusted net worth ANW to the IFRS net asset value NAV for the covered business.
m Total Core Non-core covered covered Emerging Old Mutual covered At 31 December 2013 business business Markets Wealth business 1 IFRS net asset value 3,823 3,451 1,212 2,239 372 Adjustment to include long-term business on a statutory solvency basis 759 759 158 917 Inclusion of Group equity and debt instruments held in life funds 307 307 293 14 Goodwill 769 769 8 761 2 Other 41 34 34 7 Adjusted net worth attributable to ordinary equity holders 3 of the parent 2,561 2,196 1,621 575 365 m Total Core Non-core covered covered Emerging Old Mutual covered At 31 December 2012 business business Markets Wealth business 1 IFRS net asset value 4,308 3,600 1,295 2,305 708 Adjustment to include long-term business on a statutory solvency basis 926 898 187 1,085 28 Inclusion of Group equity and debt instruments held in life funds 367 367 364 3 Goodwill 765 765 8 757 Adjusted net worth attributable to ordinary equity holders 3 of the parent 2,984 2,304 1,838 466 680 1 IFRS net asset value is after elimination of inter-company loans.
2 Other includes a restatement of Old Mutual Bermuda variable annuity guarantee liabilities from an IFRS basis to a best estimate valuation consistent with MCEV principles, partially offset by seed capital investment gains, and an adjustment to allow for non-controlling interests in Zimbabwe.
3 A further 32 million 2012: 36 million of adjustments relates to the non-covered business.
This brings the total adjustment to IFRS net asset value to 1,294 million 2012: 1,360 million.
The adjustments to include long-term business on a statutory solvency basis reflect the difference between the net worth of each business on the statutory basis as required by the local regulator and their portion of the Groups consolidated equity shareholder funds.
In South Africa, these values exclude items that are eliminated or shown separately on consolidation such as Nedbank and inter-company loans.
For some European countries the value reflected in the adjustment to include long-term business on a statutory solvency basis includes the value of the deferred acquisition cost asset, which is part of the equity.
The adjustment to include long-term business on a statutory solvency basis includes the following: The excess of the IFRS amount of the deferred acquisition cost DAC and value of business acquired VOBA assets over the statutory levels included in the VIF When projecting future profits on a statutory basis, the VIF includes the shareholders value of unrealised capital gains.
To the extent that assets in IFRS are valued at market and the market value is higher than the statutory book value, these profits have already been taken into account in the IFRS equity.
C5: Reconciliation of movements in Group and Adjusted Group MCEV after tax m Year ended 31 December 2013 Year ended 31 December 2012 NonNonCovered covered Total Covered covered Total business business Group business business Group Notes MCEV IFRS MCEV MCEV IFRS MCEV Opening Group MCEV 6,385 2,790 9,175 7,217 2,491 9,708 Adjusted operating MCEV earnings B4 483 384 867 453 323 776 Non-operating MCEV earnings 321 18 303 473 498 971 Total Group MCEV earnings 804 366 1,170 926 821 1,747 Other movements in IFRS net equity C3 1,322 267 1,589 1,758 522 2,280 Closing Group MCEV 5,867 2,889 8,756 6,385 2,790 9,175 Adjustments to bring Group investments to market value B1 1,406 1,406 1,615 1,615 Adjusted Group MCEV 5,867 4,295 10,162 6,385 4,405 10,790 273 MCEV NOTES TO THE MCEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the year ended 31 December 2013 D1: Sensitivity tests The table below shows the sensitivity of the MCEV, value of in-force business at 31 December 2013 and the value of new business for the year ended 31 December 2013 to the following: Economic assumptions 100 bps increase decrease: Increasing decreasing all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions projected investment returns and inflation by 100 bps, with credited rates and discount rates changing commensurately Equity property market value 10% increase decrease: Equity and property market value increasing decreasing by 10%, with all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions unchanged 10 bps increase of liquidity spreads: Recognising the present value of an additional 10 bps of liquidity spreads assumed on corporate bonds over the lifetime of the liabilities, with credited rates and discount rates changing commensurately 50 bps contraction on corporate bond spreads 25% increase in equity property and swaption implied volatilities: 25% multiplicative increase in implied volatilities 10% decrease in discontinuance rates 10% decrease in maintenance expense: Maintenance expense levels decreasing by 10%, with no corresponding decrease in policy charges 5% decrease in mortality morbidity rates: Mortality and morbidity assumptions for assurances decreasing by 5%, with no corresponding decrease in policy charges 5% decrease in annuitant mortality assumption: Mortality assumption for annuities decreasing by 5%, with no corresponding increase in policy charges VNB 10% increase in acquisition expenses: For value of new business, acquisition expenses other than commission and commission related expenses increasing by 10%, with no corresponding increase in policy charges VNB on closing economic assumptions: Value of new business calculated on economic assumptions at the end of the reporting period Minimum capital requirement: Required capital equal to the minimum statutory requirement NHR capital diversification: Residual non-hedgeable risk capital reduced to incorporate diversification benefits between hedgeable and non-hedgeable risks for covered business 99.93% confidence level NHR capital: Economic capital for residual non-hedgeable risks calculated assuming a 99.93% confidence level.
For each sensitivity illustrated, all other assumptions have been left unchanged except where they are directly affected by the revised conditions.
Sensitivity scenarios therefore include consistent changes in cash flows directly affected by the changed assumption s, for example future bonus participation in changed economic scenarios.
In some jurisdictions the reserving basis that underlies shareholder distributable cash flows is dynamic, and in theory some sensitivities could change not only future experience but also reserving levels.
Modelling of dynamic reserves is extremely complex and the effect on value is second-order.
Therefore, in performing the sensitivities, reserving bases have been kept constant for non-linked business including non-linked reserves for linked business whilst only varying future experience assumptions with similar considerations applying to required capital.
However, the sensitivities for South Africa in respect of an increase decrease of all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions, an increase decrease in equity and property market values and increases in equity, property and swaption implied volatilities allow for the change in the time value of financial options and guarantees that form part of the Investment Guarantee Reserves IGR.
The sensitivities for an increase decrease in all pre-tax investment and economic assumptions with credited rates and discount rates changing commensurately are calculated in line with a parallel shift in risk free reference spot rates rather than risk free reference forward rates.
However, the 1% reduction is limited so that it does not lead to negative risk free reference rates.
VNB sensitivities assume that the scenario arises immediately after point of sale of the contract.
Therefore no allowance is made for the ability to re-price any contracts in the sensitivity scenarios, apart from the mortality sensitivities for the South African business where allowance is made for changes in the pricing basis for products with reviewable premiums.
Old Mutual plc 274 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financials D1: Sensitivity tests continued Sensitivity tests: MCEV m At 31 December 2013 At 31 December 2012 Value of Value of in-force Value of in-force Value of MCEV business new business MCEV business new business Central assumptions 5,867 3,306 212 6,365 3,401 197 MCEV, VIF & VNB given changes in: Economic assumption 100 bps increase 5,739 3,188 199 6,253 3,285 180 Economic assumption 100 bps decrease 5,990 3,412 222 6,471 3,505 215 Equity property market value 10% increase 6,030 3,418 219 6,647 3,632 206 Equity property market value 10% decrease 5,629 3,122 206 6,169 3,248 192 10 bps increase of liquidity spreads 5,873 3,312 213 6,374 3,410 198 50 bps contraction on corporate bond spreads 5,879 3,306 212 6,380 3,402 197 25% increase in equity property implied volatilities 5,790 3,236 212 6,311 3,358 197 25% increase in swaption implied volatilities 5,854 3,293 212 6,353 3,389 197 10% decrease in discontinuance rates 6,031 3,473 251 6,519 3,568 237 10% decrease in maintenance expense 6,043 3,482 229 6,580 3,616 216 5% decrease in mortality morbidity rates 5,976 3,415 227 6,495 3,531 214 5% decrease in annuitant mortality assumption 5,863 3,302 211 6,358 3,394 197 VNB 10% increase in acquisition expenses n a n a 197 n a n a 180 VNB on closing economic assumptions n a n a 206 n a n a 205 Minimum capital requirement 5,920 3,359 217 6,421 3,457 202 NHR capital diversification 5,893 3,332 215 6,408 3,444 201 99.93% confidence level NHR capital 5,822 3,261 207 6,306 3,342 192 275
