y Share based payments In accordance with IFRS 2 Share based payments, the fair value at the date of grant of awards to be made in respect of options and shares granted under the terms of the Groups various share based employee incentive arrangements is charged to the pro t and loss account over the period between the date of grant and the vesting date.
National Insurance on share based payments is accrued over the vesting period, based on the share price at the balance sheet date.
Where the allowable cost of share based awards for tax purposes is greater than the cost determined in accordance with IFRS 2, the tax effect of the excess is taken to reserves.
z Dividends In accordance with IAS 10 Events after the balance sheet date, dividends payable on ordinary shares are recognised in equity once they are appropriately authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Dividends declared after the balance sheet date, but before the authorisation of the financial statements remain within shareholders funds.
aa Foreign currency Foreign currency transactions, assets and liabilities are accounted for in accordance with IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
The functional currency of the Group is the pound sterling.
Transactions which are not denominated in sterling are translated into sterling at the spot rate of exchange on the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities which are not denominated in sterling are translated at the closing rate on the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses on retranslation are included in interest payable or interest receivable depending on whether the underlying instrument is an asset or a liability, except where deferred in equity in accordance with the cash ow hedging provisions of IAS 39. bb Segmental reporting The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those described above for the Group as a whole.
Costs attributed to each segment represent the direct costs incurred by the segment operations and an allocation of the costs of areas of the business which serve all segments.
Such allocations are weighted by the value of loan assets in each segment, adjusted for the relative effort involved in the administration of each asset class.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Certain of the balances reported in the financial statements are based wholly or in part on estimates or assumptions made by the directors.
There is, therefore, a potential risk that they may be subject to change in future periods.
The most signi cant of these are: a Impairment losses on loans to customers Impairment losses on loans are calculated based on statistical models.
The key assumptions revolve around estimates of future cash ows from customers accounts, their timing and, for secured accounts, the expected proceeds from the realisation of the property.
These key assumptions are based on observed data from historical patterns and are updated regularly based on new data as it becomes available.
In addition the directors consider how appropriate past trends and patterns might be in the current economic situation and make any adjustments they believe are necessary to re ect the current conditions.
The accuracy of the impairment calculations would therefore be affected by unexpected changes to the economic situation, variances between the models used and the actual results, or assumptions which differ from the actual outcomes.
In particular, if the impact of economic factors such as employment levels on customers is worse than is implicit in the model then the number of accounts requiring provision might be greater than suggested by the model, while falls in house prices, over and above any assumed by the model might increase the provision required in respect of accounts currently provided.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 91 D The accounts b Effective interest rates In order to determine the effective interest rate applicable to loans an estimate must be made of the expected life of each loan and hence the cash ows relating thereto.
For purchased accounts this will involve estimating the likely future performance of the accounts at the time of acquisition.
These estimates are based on historical data and reviewed regularly.
For purchased accounts historical data obtained from the vendor will be examined.
The accuracy of the effective interest rate applied would therefore be compromised by any differences between actual borrower behaviour and that predicted.
c Fair values Where financial assets and liabilities are carried at fair value, in the majority of cases this can be derived by reference to quoted market prices.
Where such a quoted price is not available the valuation is based on cash ow models based, where possible, on independently sourced parameters.
The accuracy of the calculation would therefore be affected by unexpected market movements or other variances in the operation of the models or the assumptions used.
d Retirement bene ts The present value of the retirement bene t obligation is derived from an actuarial calculation which rests on a number of assumptions.
Where actual conditions differ from those assumed the ultimate value of the obligation would be different.
e Goodwill and intangible assets arising on acquisition The value of goodwill and intangible assets recognised on the Groups acquisition of TBMC was derived from the projected cash ows for that business at the time of acquisition, based on management forecasts.
The accuracy of this valuation would therefore be compromised by any differences between these forecasts and the levels of business activity that the entity might actually have been able to generate in the absence of the acquisition.
This valuation will also be affected by the accuracy of the discount factor used.
The carrying value of the goodwill and intangible assets is dependent on the accuracy of the inputs into the impairment test described in note 24.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 92 D The accounts
