Notes to the accounts For the year ended 30 September 2013 1 GENERAL INFORMATION The Paragon Group of Companies PLC is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom and incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006 with company number 2336032.
The address of the registered of ce is 51 Homer Road, Solihull, West Midlands, B91 3QJ.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic Report in section A2.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the currency of the economic environment in which the Group operates.
ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED REPORTING STANDARDS In the preparation of these financial statements no new reporting standards are being applied for the first time.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements the following International Financial Reporting Standards and Interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements: IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements: IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities: IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement: IAS 27 Revised Separate Financial Statements: IAS 28 Revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures: and Amendment to IAS 19 Employee bene ts.
The adoption of IFRS 9, as currently in issue, would not be anticipated to have a material impact on the accounting of the Group although the International Accounting Standards Board IASB has announced its intention to expand this Standard in such a way that would require changes to the valuation and income recognition methods relating to the Groups Loans to Customers, Borrowings and derivative assets and liabilities.
In November 2013 the IASB announced that the implementation date was being removed from this Standard and that a new date would be announced when the whole project was closer to completion.
The European Union has declined to consider the endorsement of IFRS 9 until a complete version is issued by the IASB.
The Group has yet to conduct a full assessment of its potential impact, pending further information on the implementation date from the IASB and on endorsement from the European Union.
IFRS 10, 11 and 12 and the revised IAS 27 and 28 form the new IFRS regime for consolidation.
The directors do not expect that the entities included within the consolidated accounts will differ under the new standards from those presently consolidated, nor that the consolidated results will be changed, although the disclosures provided under the new standards may differ.
These standards are expected to be applied for the first time in the Groups accounts for the year ending 30 September 2014.
IFRS 13, which is expected to apply to the Groups accounts from the year ending 30 September 2014 sets out new guidance on the establishment of fair value for accounting purposes and enhanced disclosures.
It will apply to all amounts in the Groups financial statements presented at fair value, but is unlikely, in the view of the directors, to have a material impact on the Groups results or financial position.
The revision to IAS 19, which is expected to apply to the Groups accounts for the year ending 30 September 2014, will change the amounts presented in the income statement in respect of the Groups pension plan, without affecting the surplus or fide cit shown in the balance sheet.
If that Standard had been in force for the financial year ended 30 September 2013 it is estimated that the effect would be to reduce pro t before tax by 0.8m 2012: 0.4m.
Other Standards and interpretations in issue but not effective do not address matters relevant to the Groups accounting and reporting.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 86 D The accounts
