Shareholder information Analysis of share register Key dates As at 18 March 2014, there were 399,999,971 ordinary shares in 7 May 2014 Ex-dividend date final dividend issue.
In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules 9 May 2014 Record date to be eligible for the final dividend DTR5, the Company as at 18 March 2014, has been notied of the 14 May 2014 Results Quarter 1 Interim Management Statement following interests amounting to more than three percent of its issued ordinary shares: 22 May 2014 Annual General Meeting 11.30am Percentage of current 30 May 2014 Final dividend payment date for the year to issued share capital 31 December 2013 GIC Government of Singapore Investment Corp 4.1% 14 August 2014 Results Half Year Cinven Limited Cinven SA Cinven Funds 51.9% 12 November 2014 Results Quarter 3 Interim Management Statement Note: All interests disclosed to the Company in accordance with DTR5 that have occurred can be found at our corporate website: www.
com investors Warning to shareholders Managing your shares Over the last year many companies have become aware that The Companys register of shareholders is maintained by our their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or Registrar, Equiniti.
Shareholders with queries relating to their correspondence concerning investment matters which imply a shareholding should contact Equiniti directly.
Their contact details connection to the Company concerned.
These are typically from can be found on the inside back cover.
Alternatively, shareholders overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to may nd the Investors section of our corporate website useful sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in for general queries.
Dividends They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive and a 2006 survey by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA has reported that Paid in May 2014.
We encourage shareholders to have dividends the average amount lost by investors is around 20,000.
It is not paid directly into their bank account to ensure efficient payment just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many and cleared funds on the payment date.
Those selecting this of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
payment method will receive a tax voucher in April 2014, in respect Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, of the dividend payments in the year.
offers to buy shares or offers of free reports into the Company.
To change how you receive your dividends either log on to If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: shareview.
co. uk or contact Equiniti.
t NBLF TVSF ZPV HFU UIF DPSSFDU OBNF PG UIF QFSTPO BOE If you move house organisation and make a record of any other information they It is extremely important that you contact Equiniti to inform them give you, e. g. telephone number, address etc: of your new address as soon as possible.
"If you hold 1,500 shares t DIFDL UIBU UIFZ BSF QSPQFSMZ BVUIPSJTFE CZ UIF '$"" CFGPSF or fewer, and reside in the UK, this can be done quickly over the getting involved."
"For holdings greater than 1,500, your instruction will need to be in writing, quoting your full name, shareholder reference t UIF '$"" BMTP NBJOUBJOT PO JUT XFCTJUF B MJTU PG VOBVUIPSJTFE number if known, previous address and new address."
overseas rms who are targeting, or have targeted, UK investors and any approach from such organisations should be reported Electronic communication to the FCA so that this list can be kept up to date and any Shareholders may opt to receive their communications from other appropriate action can be considered.
If you deal with an us electronically using email and web-based communications.
unauthorised rm, you would not be eligible to receive payment The use of electronic communications, rather than printed paper under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FCA documents, means information about the Company can be can, preferably, be contacted at www.
uk or, if you do not received as soon as it is available and has the added benefit of have access to the internet, by calling 0800 111 6768. reducing costs and our impact on the environment.
Each time we Details of any sharedealing facilities that the Company endorses issue a shareholder communication, shareholders registered for will be included in Company mailings.
electronic communications will be sent an email alert containing a link to the relevant documents.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the Consumer Information section at We encourage all our shareholders to sign up for this service by www.
uk consumers providing us with an email address.
You can register your email address via shareview.
AGM 2014 This years AGM will be held at Plaisterers Hall, One London Wall, London, EC2Y 5JU on Thursday 22 May 2014.
The meeting will start at 11.30am and registration will be available from 11am.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 143 Glossary Act Group IPO NSA The Companies Act 2006, Partnership Assurance Group Initial public offering annuities which offer as amended plc and its subsidiaries and individuals with lifestyle or Listing rules subsidiary undertakings from medical factors which are Admission the listing rules of the FCA time to time expected to result in shorter the admission of the ordinary made under section 74 4 life expectancy with superior shares to the premium listing GWP of the Financial Services annuity rates segment of the Official List and gross written premium or andMarkets Act 2000 to trading on the London Stock gross premiums written, Official list Longevity risk Exchanges main market for the line item on the Groups the official list of the FCA the risk that on average, listed securities consolidated income statement annuitants will live longer PAGF which reects the revenue Board than expected PAG Finance Limited recognised in respect of the Board of Directors of Long-term expected return PAGH premiums paid for its policies the Company onsurplusassets PAG Holdings Limited IGD surplus capital resources the long-term, risk adjusted, Company PAG plc The IGD surplus capital expected return on Partnership Assurance Partnership Assurance resources is dened by the investments surplus to those Group plc Group plc FCA in the Insurance Groups investments that are used CRR PLACL Directive.
It is calculated as to back insurance liabilities.
capital resources requirement Partnership Life Assurance the surplus of the available The long-term expected DB Company Limited capital resources over the return is derived from applying dened benefit PRA capital resources requirement.
an average expected yield pension scheme the Prudential It excludes the surplus capital appropriate to the category DC Regulation Authority held within the long-term funds of surplus assets held and is dened contribution adjusted for the best-estimate RDR INA pension scheme expected level of defaults on Retail Distribution Review immediate needs annuity, those investments Directors otherwise known as a care Surplus assets the Executive Directors and Mortality risk annuity, which is designed to investments held by the Group the non-executive Directors of the risk that on average, provide income for life to fund that are not required to back PAG plc protection policyholders will care costs in return for a oneinsurance liabilities not live as long as expected off premium and is designed Economic capital coverage ratio Single premium equivalent SPE for adults requiring immediate the ratio of economic capital New business operating margin SPE is calculated as total single financial support with their surplus over economic the ratio of new business premiums plus 10 times annual long-term care costs capital requirements operating profit to new regular premiums: anindustry In-force operating profit business premiums Economic capital surplus accepted measure of revenue profit generated from the surplus capital of the Group in New business operating profit Total operating profit actual experience measured excess of an assessment of profit generated from new Total operating profit is the against the assumed the level of capital that would business completed in the sum of new business operating experience in the actuarial be required for the Group to period, calculated using profit and in-force operating basis for the book of business withstand the impact of an actuarial assumptions profit, together with the longin force.
The actuarial event that is commensurate applicable at the time the new term expected return from basis includes a number with a level of severity of business was written, utilising investments held by the Group of assumptions, the most a1-in-200 year event a discount rate based upon that are not required to back material of which are mortality expected investment yields on EEA insurance liabilities termed levels, levels of defaults on investment assets e. g. cash, the European Economic Area surplus assets investments, expense levels gilts, corporate bonds and EU Value of in-force VIF to maintain the business loans secured by equity release the European Union VIF represents the current in-force, levels of ination mortgages used to generate and lapse rates for regular value of futureprots EU IFRS the annuity quotation, net of premium business.
In-force expected to emerge fromthe International Financial expenses allocated against operating profit also includes in-force insurance liabilities Reporting Standards, as new business the effect recognised in adopted by the European Union New business premiums the IFRS profit arising from FCA New business premiums changes in the reported value the Financial Conduct Authority of insurance and associated represent the value, measured Global offer financial liabilities resulting as single premium equivalent the issue of new ordinary from changes to the actuarial SPE, of new insurance shares by the Company and the assumptions, valuation contracts completed during sale of existing ordinary shares methods or underlying data, thereporting period by the selling shareholders to made subsequent to the pointinstitutional investors in the UK of-sale and elsewhere Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 144 Discover more online at: www.
co. uk How to get in touch: Registered Office and Head Office Heron Tower 5th Floor 110 Bishopsgate London EC2N 4AY Registered in England no: 8419490 www.
com Registrars Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA United Kingdom Telephone: 0871 384 2030 International: 44 121 415 7047 Online: help.
co. uk Investor relations Email: investor.
co. uk Design and production Telephone: 44 0 20 7398 5989 Radley Yeldar | www.
com Private shareholders are welcome to Photography Colin Hawkins and George Brooks contact the Company Secretary if they have any questions or concerns they Print Park Communications Ltd wish to be raised with the Board.
Park is an EMAS certied CarbonNeutral Company Media relations and its Environmental Management System is certied Email: pressoffice@partnership.
Telephone: 44 0 20 7618 2744 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Cocoon Offset, a fully certied FSC paper containing 100% fide-inked post consumer waste.
The pulp used to produce this product is bleached using a Totally Chlorine Free TCF process.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Heron Tower 5th Floor 110 Bishopsgate London EC2N 4AY Tel 44 20 7398 5933 www.
