Notes to the MCEV consolidated financial statements For the period ended 31 December 2013 1 Basis of preparation The supplementary information which comprises the Group MCEV analysis of earnings net of tax, covered business analysis of movement in embedded value net of tax, reconciliation of Group IFRS net assets to MCEV and the related notes 1 to 6 has been prepared on a market consistent embedded value MCEV basis and results for non-covered business on the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS basis.
The MCEV methodology adopted is in accordance with the MCEV principles published by the CFO Forum in October 2009.
Covered business The MCEV calculations cover all lines of insurance business within PLACL.
No other Group companies contain any covered business and the value of these companies has been included in the Group MCEV at IFRS net asset value, less the value of goodwill and intangibles to the extent that their recovery is supported by future profits.
Group financing The Group MCEV includes the value of external debt, at the outstanding face value, within the net worth of Group companies outside of PLACL.
The Group does not make use of any financial reinsurance.
MCEV methodology Overview Under the MCEV methodology, profit is recognised as it is earned over the life of products defined within covered business.
The total profit recognised over the lifetime of a policy is the same under MCEV and IFRS, but the timing of recognition is different.
Embedded value The embedded value is the sum of the adjusted net worth of the Group companies plus the value of in-force on the covered business, this being the present value of profits that will emerge over time.
The embedded value is calculated net of the impacts of reinsurance and allows for taxation based on current legislation and known future changes.
i Net worth The net worth is the market value of the shareholders funds and the shareholders interest in the surplus held in the long-term business fund.
This is the net assets on a regulatory basis for the life company and the IFRS net asset value for other Group companies less the value of goodwill and intangibles to the extent that their recovery is supported by future profits.
The net worth is equal to the sum of the required capital and free surplus in the Group.
ii Required capital Required capital is the market value of assets attributed to the covered business in excess of assets required to back liabilities for covered business, and for which distribution to shareholders is restricted.
The level of required capital is set equal to the higher of: The level of capital at which the regulator is empowered to take action: The capital requirement under the Groups Economic Capital framework: and The target capital level.
This methodology reflects the level of capital considered by the directors to be appropriate to manage the business, and includes any additional shareholder funds not available for distribution.
The same definition of required capital is used for both existing and new business.
The level of required capital is disclosed as the percentage of the EU minimum capital requirement Capital Resources Requirement.
The free surplus is the market value of any assets allocated to, but not required to support, the in-force covered business at the valuation date.
iii Value of in-force covered business VIF The value of in-force covered business consists of the following components: present value of future profits: time value of financial options and guarantees: frictional costs of required capital: and cost of residual non-hedgeable risk.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 134 a Present value of future profits PVFP The PVFP is the present value of the distributable profits to shareholders arising from the in-force covered business projected on a best-estimate basis.
Distributable profits generally arise when they are released following actuarial valuations.
These valuations are carried out in accordance with PRA statutory requirements designed to ensure and demonstrate solvency in long-term business funds.
Future distributable profits will depend on experience in a number of areas such as investment return, mortality, lapse rates and administration costs.
Releases to shareholders arising in future years from the in-force covered business and associated required capital can be projected using assumptions of future experience.
Future profits are projected using best-estimate non-economic assumptions and market consistent economic assumptions.
In principle, each cash flow is discounted at a rate that appropriately reflects the riskiness of that cash flow, so higher risk cash flows are discounted at higher rates.
In practice, the PVFP is calculated using the certainty equivalent approach, under which the reference rate is used for both the investment return and the discount rate.
This approach ensures that asset cash flows are valued consistently with the market prices of assets without options and guarantees.
Further information on the risk-free rates is in the following pages.
b Time value of financial options and guarantees TVOG The PVFP calculation is based on a single base economic scenario: however, a single scenario cannot appropriately allow for the effect of certain asset features.
If an option or guarantee affects shareholder cash flows in the base scenario, the impact is included in the PVFP and is referred to as the intrinsic value of the option guarantee: however, future investment returns are uncertain and the actual impact on shareholder profits may be higher or lower.
The covered business does not contain any policyholder options or guarantees and therefore the TVOG is zero.
The assets backing the covered business include mortgages secured against individual domestic property equity release mortgages.
The mortgages contain guarantees where if the value of the property is lower than the mortgage balance at the time of death or entry into a care home, then the lower of the property value and mortgage balance is repaid no negative equity guarantee.
The time value of this option and guarantee is allowed for in the asset valuation using closed form calculations.
c Frictional costs of required capital FCoRC The additional costs to a shareholder of holding the assets backing required capital within an insurance company rather than directly in the market are called frictional costs.
They are explicitly deducted from the PVFP.
The additional costs allowed for are the taxation costs and any additional investment expenses on the assets backing the required capital.
The level of required capital has been set out in the net worth section.
Frictional costs are calculated by projecting forwards the future levels of required capital.
The projection of the required capital has been based on an approximate method assuming that the required capital is a constant proportion of the Long-Term Insurance Capital Requirement.
Tax on investment return and investment expenses are payable on the assets backing required capital, up until the point that they are released to shareholders.
d Cost of residual non-hedgeable risks CoNHR The cost of residual non-hedgeable risks CoNHR covers risks not already allowed for in the time value of options and guarantees or the PVFP.
The allowance includes the impact of both non-hedgeable financial and non-financial risks.
The most significant risks not included in the PVFP are operational risks and equity release property risks.
Asymmetric risks allowed for in the PVFP are described earlier in the basis of preparation.
No allowance has been made within the cost of nonhedgeable risk for symmetrical risks as these are diversifiable by investors.
The CoNHR includes an allowance for non-modelled non-hedgeable risks.
For ease of comparison the CoNHR is expressed as percentage cost of non-hedgeable capital.
New business All annuity business is written on a single premium basis.
Premium increments received following policy issue are excluded from the value of new business.
Single and regular premium protection business is included in new business.
Point-of-sale economic and non-economic assumptions are used to value the new business.
The unwind of new business from point-of-sale to the valuation date is included as part of the expected existing business contribution.
Any variances or changes in assumptions after the point-ofsale are recorded within the analysis of the MCEV earnings as operating experience variances or operating assumption changes.
Participating business The Group does not contain any policies where the policyholders participate in the profits of the business.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 135 Notes to the MCEV consolidated financial statements continued 2 Assumptions Reference rates Reference rates are calculated using corporate bond and equity release liquidity premiums added to the swap curve.
The liquidity premium on corporate bond assets is calculated by deducting an allowance for credit default, individually assessed for each bond based on credit rating, and comparing the resulting risk adjusted internal rate of return on the portfolio to the swap curve.
The equity release assets are valued using a mark-to-model approach that allows for the cost of the no negative equity guarantee, where relevant, with the liquidity premium calculated on a consistent basis.
For protection business, cash flows are assumed to be liquid and as such are discounted with no allowance for a liquidity premium.
The liquidity premiums used for the annuity in-force business are as follows: Liquidity premium 31 December 2013 180bps 31 December 2012 217bps The liquidity premium on new business is determined using an approach consistent with that for the in-force business.
For new business, the liquidity premium in excess of swaps is derived on a daily basis using the prevailing market conditions.
The weighted average liquidity premiums used for the new business MCEV calculations are as follows: Liquidity premium 31 December 2013 216bps 31 December 2012 270bps Swap rates The swap curve is constructed from cash rates, future strips, and semi-annual swap rates sourced from a variety of counterparties and brokers with flat interpolation beyond 50 years.
The table below sets out the swap rates used for the MCEV valuations as at each period end.
These rates have been supplied by PLACLs investment manager.
Swap curves 6 months 1 year 2 years 5 years 10 years 15 years 20 years 31 December 2013 0.71% 0.71% 1.03% 2.17% 3.10% 3.47% 3.57% 31 December 2012 0.67% 0.67% 0.71% 1.02% 1.92% 2.57% 2.57% Operating earnings For operating earnings, PLACL uses the risk adjusted yield on the asset portfolio backing liabilities in order to determine the total existing business contribution.
This represents managements long-term expectations of total return on the portfolio.
The expected return has been calculated by reference to the internal rate of return on the backing assets less an appropriate risk margin.
Mortality rates Assumed future mortality, morbidity and lapse rates have been derived from PLACLs historical experience data.
The assumption is set as a bestestimate of future experience.
Improvements in annuitant longevity have been included in this best-estimate.
Expenses Maintenance expenses are based on the costs allocated or recharged to the PLACL in-force business.
No credit for future productivity gains or economies of scale has been included in the MCEV.
Exceptional expenses, associated with the covered business, are charged to the non-operating earnings in the year incurred and are excluded from the per policy maintenance expense assumptions amounted to 5.2m for the year to 31 December 2013 31 December 2012: 2.4m in relation to Solvency II.
Best-estimate expense inflation as at 31 December 2013 was 4.8% p. a.
31 December 2012: 4.3% Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 136 Taxation The current and future tax rates are those corporation tax rates as published by HM Treasury and take into account both taxes enacted by legislation and those disclosed in budget announcements.
Tax losses in Group companies, resulting mainly from accrued interest on debt, are fully relieved to PLACL resulting in a reduction in the effective tax rate.
The effective tax rate for the year to 31 December 2013 was 17.1% 31 December 2012: 16.2%.
For the purposes of modelling tax on future profits, a calendar assumption is set using a pro rata method based on months at each effective rate.
This is implemented as prescribed by HMRC.
The corporation tax rates used were as follows: Blended corporation tax rate 2013 2012 2011 26.50% 26.50% 2012 24.50% 24.50% 2013 23.25% 23.25% 2014 21.50% 21.50% 2015 20.25% 21.00% 2016 20.00% 21.00% Volatilities and correlations Residential property volatility is the only direct volatility input to the MCEV calculations and is used in the evaluation of the no negative equity guarantee on equity release assets.
As at 31 December 2013 the assumption was set to 12% 31 December 2012: 12%.
Correlations between the risks inherent in the business are used for the calculation of the CoNHR total non-hedgeable risk capital.
The correlations are consistent with the Groups Economic Capital assumptions which are based on historic correlations with adjustment for prudence as required.
Non-hedgeable risk For the balance sheet and operating profit, a charge of 1.2% 31 December 2012: 1.2% has been applied to the non-hedgeable capital required for a 1-in-200 year basis over the remaining lifetime of in-force business.
The charge includes an allowance for all material non-hedgeable risks identified which are not already included in the PVFP calculation.
The capital levels used are consistent with those used in the economic capital calculation for those risks covered.
Diversification benefits are included between non-hedgeable risks of the covered business.
No diversification credit has been taken with hedgeable risks in the covered or non-covered business.
The capital has been projected as running off over the remaining lifetime of the covered business in line with the capital resources requirement.
Frictional cost of required capital The required capital has been set to be 185% of the capital resources requirement 31 December 2012: 176%.
The required capital has been projected as running off over the remaining lifetime of the covered business in line with the capital resources requirement.
The total frictional cost allowance for investment expenses and tax on investment income earned on the required capital is 0.8% as at 31 December 2013 31 December 2012: 1.1%.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 137 Notes to the MCEV consolidated financial statements continued 3 Commentary on the analysis of movement in embedded value net of tax Covered business The key driver of MCEV earnings was the value of new business written over the period.
The decrease in the New business value in 2013 is due to lower volumes of new business and higher expenses.
The total expected existing business contribution and transfers from VIF and required capital to free surplus has increased in the period as a result of continued growth in the portfolio.
There has been a refinement in the allocation of the unwind of FCoRC between the two lines.
Experience variances in the period are negligible in aggregate and there were no significant individual components.
The changes in assumptions include an expense assumption profit due to a reduction in per policy expenses, partially offset by mortality assumption changes.
Other operating variances largely consist of expected long-term return on excess assets.
The small economic variance is immaterial in the context of the investment portfolio.
Non-operating variance in free surplus consists of exceptional expenses in respect of the Groups expenditure on regulatory projects, such as the necessary system and process developments required to comply with the proposed Solvency II capital regime.
The VIF impact represents benefit of the reduction of corporation tax changes to 20% effective from 1 April 2015.
On 13 December 2013 Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited declared and paid a dividend to Partnership Group Holdings Limited PAGHL of 25m.
Non-covered business The non-operating MCEV loss principally comprises transaction costs relating to the IPO and Global Offer and interest payable on loan notes and bank borrowings.
4 Commentary on the movements in IFRS net equity net of tax The other movements in IFRS net equity are predominantly as a direct result of the Global Offer, the admission of the Company to the London Stock Exchange on 12 June 2013 and certain internal reorganisation steps undertaken in the lead up to these transactions.
These have resulted in an increase in the net worth of 455.5m.
Immediately prior to admission on 12 June 2013: the A and B loan notes, previously held by PAG Finance Limited PAGF, a Group company, together with accrued but unpaid interest, were exchanged on a pound-for-pound basis for the allotment and issue of 69,212,294 ordinary shares in the Company resulting in an increase of net worth of 266.5m: and the C loan notes, previously held by PAGH, together with accrued but unpaid interest, were exchanged on a pound-for-pound basis for the allotment and issue of 15,397,726 ordinary shares in the Company resulting in an increase in net worth of 59.3m.
Pursuant to the Global Offer and following admission on 12 June 2013: the Company issued 32,467,532 new ordinary shares raising 125.0m: and the Company issued 51,948 new ordinary shares to senior management and 12,025 new ordinary shares to the employee benefit trust raising 246,000.
4.0m of transactions costs relating to the Global Offer in the year to 31 December 2013 are directly associated with the issue of new shares and have therefore been set off against share premium associated with those shares resulting in a reduction in net worth by that amount.
In addition, following admission on the London Stock Exchange, the awards under the ESOP vested in full and were exercised immediately.
This resulted in an increase in net worth of 8.5m as a result the utilisation of the share-based payment reserves.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 138 5 Covered business analysis of movement in gross of tax embedded value Covered business is the PLACL legal entity which holds all the long-term insurance business within the Group.
The analysis of movement for covered business is shown in the table below.
All earnings are shown on a gross of tax basis with attributed tax shown separately.
The results are shown net of tax.
The required Capital has not been recalculated in each scenario and is modelled as a level percentage of the Capital Resources Requirement CRR although the CRR will have increased or decreased as a result of any change in IFRS reserves and will impact on the FCoRC.
The sensitivity of the embedded value and the value of new business to changes in economic and non-economic assumptions is as follows: In-force New business Impact on MCEV Change in MCEV Impact on MCEV Change in MCEV 2013 Sensitivity 000's % 000's % Embedded value Base 463,494 81,094 Interest rate environment 100bps 760 0% n a n a Interest rate environment 100bps 4,802 1% n a n a Swaption implied volatilities 25% n a n a n a n a Property volatilities 25% 23,601 5% 4,100 5% Property Values 10% 17,364 4% n a n a Lapses 10% including equity release 1,861 0% n a n a Mortality 5% annuities 16,892 4% 3,179 4% Expenses 10% 5,842 1% 1,322 2% Mortality improvements 0.25% 7,149 2% 1,986 2% Decrease in liquidity premium 25bps 60,529 13% 17,363 22% Required capital set to be 100% of CRR 16,813 4% 6,466 8% In-force New business Impact on MCEV Change in MCEV Impact on MCEV Change in MCEV 2012 Sensitivity 000's % 000's % Embedded value Base 383,600 94,800 Interest rate environment 100bps 7,287 2% n a n a Interest rate environment 100bps 7,091 2% n a n a Swaption implied volatilities 25% n a n a n a n a Property volatilities 25% 14,469 4% 4,200 4% Property Values 10% 8,241 2% n a n a Lapses 10% including equity release 2,026 1% n a n a Mortality 5% annuities 11,419 3% 3,043 3% Expenses 10% 5,629 1% 1,190 1% Mortality improvements 0.25% 5,121 1% 1,685 2% Decrease in liquidity premium 25bps 47,649 12% 16,113 17% Required capital set to be 100% of CRR 12,755 3% 3,190 3% Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 140 Notes to the sensitivities: Interest rate environment 100bps this sensitivity is modelled as a 100bps change to the yield on each asset.
The sensitivity allows for the resulting change in asset value and the change in liability value that follows from the change in risk adjusted internal rate of return on the portfolio.
In the 100bps sensitivity the reference rate has a floor of 0%.
No sensitivity to swaption implied volatilities has been shown as swaption volatilities are not used in any part of the MCEV calculation for PLACL.
25% increase in property volatility this sensitivity allows for the change in equity release asset value as a result of the change in the cost of the No Negative Equity Guarantee and the corresponding change in liabilities as a result of the yield change.
10% fall in property values this sensitivity allows for the change in asset value arising from an immediate fall of 10% in property prices, thereby increasing the cost of the No Negative Equity Guarantee and the change in liabilities as a result of the consequent change in yield on the equity release asset.
10% proportionate change in lapses e. g. base lapse rate of 5% becomes 90% 5% equity release repayment rates are also adjusted, the IFRS reserves are changed in this scenario as a result of changing yields on equity release mortgages 5% decrease in base mortality this sensitivity is modelled for the annuity business only.
Remaining products are not material.
This is modelled as a change in the best-estimate mortality level and the prudent margins remain unchanged.
10% decrease in maintenance expenses modelled as a 10% change in the expense reserve.
There is no change to expense inflation and no change to valuation interest rates.
Mortality improvements 0.25% this sensitivity is modelled as an additional 0.25% improvement in each future year within the best-estimate basis.
25bps decrease in liquidity premiums this sensitivity is modelled as a 25bps parallel shift in the reference rates used for annuity business.
This equates to an increase in best-estimate credit defaults of 34bps p. a. for corporate bond holdings.
The required capital sensitivity is modelled by reducing capital from 186% to 100% of the capital resource requirement.
This has no impact on net worth and reduces the VIF as a result of lower frictional costs of capital.
Interest rate and property value sensitivities are not modelled for new business as the Group actively reviews its pricing, and in the event of a sudden movement in asset values the pricing of new business would be changed.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 141 OTHER INFORMATION In this section: 143 Shareholder information 144 Glossary Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 142
