PIGIT pp11 13 PIGIT pp11 13 06 06 2013 14:55 Page 13 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 13 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The shares of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Financial Calendar Trust plc the Company are quoted on the London The Company publishes information according to the Stock Exchange.
following calendar: Savings Plan and ISA Announcements Annual Financial Report June The Company is a member of the Invesco Perpetual Half-yearly Financial Report November Investment Trust Savings Scheme and the Invesco Interim Management Statements January July Perpetual Investment Trust ISA.
The Companys Ordinary and Subscription shares can be purchased and sold via Annual General Meeting July these two schemes.
Year End 31 March Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Savings Ordinary Share Dividend Timetable Scheme 1st interim payable September 2nd interim payable December The Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Savings Scheme 3rd interim payable March allows an investor to make monthly purchases from 20 per month or through lump sum investments of 4th interim payable June 500 or above in the shares of the Company in a straightforward and low cost way.
Subscription Shares Base cost for the calculation of taxation on capital Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust ISA gains The Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust ISA allows Trading in the subscription shares issued by the investments up to 11,520 in the shares of the Company to qualifying shareholders commenced on Company in the 2013 14 tax year.
Further to the details outlined in the choose to make lump sum investments from 500, or prospectus, for the purposes of UK taxation, the issue regular investments from 20 per month.
of subscription shares is treated as a reorganisation of For full details of these schemes please contact the Companys share capital.
Whereas such Invesco Perpetuals Investor Services team free on reorganisations do not trigger a chargeable disposal for 0800 085 8677. the purposes of capital gains, they do require shareholders to reallocate the base costs of their ordinary shares between ordinary shares and Net Asset Value NAV Publication subscription shares acquired under the bonus issue.
The NAV of the Company is calculated by the Manager on a daily basis and is notified to the Stock Exchange At the close of business on 31 May 2005, the middle on the following business day.
It is published daily in market prices of the Companys ordinary shares and the newspapers detailed below.
subscription shares were as follows: Ordinary Shares 190.25p Share Price Listings Subscription Shares 34.50p The price of your shares can be found in The Financial Accordingly, an individual investor who, on 27 May 2005, Times, Daily Telegraph, The Times and The Evening held ten ordinary shares or a multiple thereof would Standard.
In addition, share price information can be have received a bonus issue of one subscription share found using the PLI ticker code for ordinary shares and or the relevant multiple thereof and would apportion PLIS for the subscription shares.
the base cost of such holding 98.22% to the ten ordinary Internet addresses shares and 1.78% to the subscription shares.
co. uk investmenttrusts If you need tax advice, you should contact a qualified tax professional.
co. uk Investment Companies Expiry of subscription rights The final opportunity for subscription shareholders to Managers Website exercise their subscription rights is 31 August 2013.
A The Managers website can be located at trustee will be appointed within seven days following www.
co. uk investmenttrusts the final subscription date who will, provided the net proceeds of sale exceed the costs of subscription, The contents of websites referred to in this document, exercise any subscription rights not otherwise exercised or accessible from links within those websites, are not and will sell in the market the ordinary shares arising.
incorporated into, nor do they form part of this annual The net proceeds, less subscription costs, will be financial report.
distributed in cash to the holders of the relevant subscription shares.
Location of Annual General Meeting AGM The AGM will be held at Phyllis Court Members Club, Phyllis Court Drive, Henley-on-Thames, Oxfordshire RG9 2HT on Thursday, 11 July 2013 at 11am.
