PIGIT pp34 51 PIGIT pp34 51 06 06 2013 14:54 Page 46 46 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 18.
Related Party Transactions and Transactions with the Manager Invesco Asset Management Limited IAML, a wholly owned subsidiary of Invesco Limited, acts as Manager, Company Secretary and Administrator to the Company.
Details of IAMLs services and fees are disclosed in the Report of the Directors.
Fees paid to Directors are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 31, with additional disclosure in note 4.
Full details of Directors interests are set out in the Report of the Directors on page 25.
Financial Instruments The Companys financial instruments comprise its investment portfolio as shown on pages8 to 10 cash, borrowings including overdraft and debenture, debtors and creditors that arise directly from its operations such as sales and purchases awaiting settlement and accrued income.
The accounting policies in note 1 include criteria for the recognition and the basis of measurement applied for financial instruments.
Note 1 also includes the basis on which income and expenses arising from financial assets and liabilities are recognised and measured.
The principal risks that an investment company faces in its portfolio management activities are set out below: Market risk arising from fluctuations in the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument because of changes in market prices.
Market risk comprises three types of risk: currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk: Currency risk arising from fluctuations in the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument because of changes in foreign exchange rates: Interest rate risk arising from fluctuations in the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument because of changes in market interest rates: and Other price risk arising from fluctuations in the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument for reasons other than changes in foreign exchange rates or market interest rates.
Liquidity risk arising from any difficulty in meeting obligations associated with financial liabilities.
Credit risk arising from financial loss for a company where the other party to a financial instrument fails to discharge an obligation.
Risk Management Policies and Procedures The Directors have delegated to the Manager the responsibility for the day-to-day investment activities of the Company as more fully described in the Report of the Directors.
As an investment trust the Company invests in equities and other investments for the long term so as to meet its investment objective and policies.
In pursuing its investment objective, the Company is exposed to a variety of risks that could result in either a reduction in the Companys net assets or a reduction of the profits available for dividends.
The risks applicable to the Company and the policies the Company used to manage these risks for the two years under review follow.
Market Risk The Companys Manager assesses the Companys direct exposure when making each investment decision, and monitors the overall level of market risk on the whole of the investment portfolio on an ongoing basis.
The Board meets at least quarterly to assess risk and review investment performance, as disclosed on page 20.
No other derivative or hedging instruments are utilised to manage market risk.
Gearing is used to enhance returns, but this also increases the Companys exposure to market risk and volatility.
Currency risk The majority of the Companys assets, liabilities and income are denominated in sterling.
There is some exposure to US dollars, Swiss francs and Swedish krona.
