PIGIT pp34 51 PIGIT pp34 51 06 06 2013 14:54 Page 37 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST 50 37 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2013 1.
Principal Accounting Policies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied during the year and the preceding year, unless otherwise stated.
a Basis of Preparation Accounting Standards applied The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include the revaluation of certain fixed assets, in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and with the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts, issued by the Association of Investment Companies in January 2009.
The financial statements are also prepared on a going concern basis.
The disclosures on going concern in the Report of the Directors on page 22 form part of the financial statements.
b Foreign Currency and Segmental Reporting i Functional and presentational currency The financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentational currency and the currency in which the Companys share capital and expenses, as well as its assets and liabilities, are denominated.
ii Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies, whether of a revenue or capital nature, are translated to sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the dates of such transactions.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated to sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any gains or losses, whether realised or unrealised, are taken to the capital reserve or to the revenue account, depending on whether the gain or loss is of a capital or revenue nature.
All gains and losses are recognised in the income statement.
iii Segmental reporting The Directors are of the opinion that the Company is engaged in a single segment of business of investing in equity and debt securities, issued by companies quoted mainly on the UK or other regulated stock exchanges.
c Financial Instruments i Recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities The Company recognises financial assets and financial liabilities when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Company will offset financial assets and financial liabilities if the Company has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and interests and intends to settle on a net basis.
ii Derecognition of financial assets The Company derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire or it transfers the right to receive the contractual cash flows on the financial asset in a transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred.
Any interest in the transferred financial asset that is created or retained by the Company is recognised as an asset.
iii Derecognition of financial liabilities The Company derecognises financial liabilities when its obligations are discharged, cancelled or expired.
iv Trade date accounting Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on trade date, being the date on which the Company commits to purchase or sell the assets.
PIGIT pp34 51 PIGIT pp34 51 06 06 2013 14:54 Page 38 38 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 1.
Principal Accounting Policies continued c Financial Instruments continued v Classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities Financial assets The Companys investments are classified as held at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, which is taken to be their cost, with transaction costs expensed in the income statement, and are subsequently valued at fair value.
Fair value for investments that are actively traded in organised financial markets is determined by reference to stock exchange quoted bid prices at the balance sheet date.
For investments that are not actively traded or where active stock exchange quoted bid prices are not available, fair value is determined by reference to a variety of valuation techniques including broker quotes and price modelling.
Where there is no active market, unlisted illiquid investments are valued by the Directors at fair value based on recommendations from Invescos Pricing Committee, which in turn is guided by the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Association Guidelines, using valuation techniques such as earnings multiples, recent arms length transactions and net assets.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
d Hedging and Derivatives Forward currency contracts entered into for hedging purposes are valued at the appropriate forward exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Profits or losses on the closure or revaluation of positions are included in capital reserves.
Futures contracts may be entered into for hedging purposes and any profits and losses on the closure or revaluation of positions are included in capital reserves.
Derivative instruments are valued at fair value in the balance sheet.
Derivative instruments may be capital or revenue in nature and, accordingly, changes in their fair value are recognised in revenue or capital in the income statement as appropriate.
e Income Dividend income arises from equity investments held and is recognised on the date investments are marked ex-dividend.
Deposit interest and underwriting commission receivable are taken into account on an accruals basis.
Interest income arising from fixed income securities and cash is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a debt instrument and of allocating interest income over the relevant period.
f Expenses and Finance Costs Expenses are recognised on an accruals basis and finance costs are recognised using the effective interest method in the income statement.
The investment management fee and finance costs are allocated 70% to capital and 30% to revenue.
This is in accordance with the Boards expected long-term split of returns, in the form of capital gains and income respectively, from the portfolio.
The performance fee is allocated wholly to capital as it arises from capital returns on the portfolio.
Investment transaction costs are recognised in capital in the income statement.
All other expenses are allocated to revenue in the income statement.
