CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED process led by the Chairman.
The performance of the Chairman was evaluated by the other Directors.
The UK Code will require the Company to engage an external facilitator for the Board evaluation every three years.
The Board is currently considering this option.
INTERNAL CONTROLS The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has therefore established an ongoing process designed to meet the particular needs of the Company in managing the risks to which it is exposed, consistent with the internal control guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The process relies principally on a risk-based system of internal control whereby a test matrix is created that identifies the key functions carried out by the Company and other service providers, the individual activities undertaken within those functions, the risks associated with each activity and the controls employed to minimise those risks.
A formal annual review of these procedures is carried out by the Board and includes consideration of internal control reports issued by the Investment Adviser and other service providers.
Such review procedures have been in place throughout the financial year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, and the Board is satisfied with their effectiveness.
These procedures are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and, by their nature, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
At each Board meeting the Board reviews the Companys activities since the previous Board Meeting to ensure that the Investment Adviser adheres to the agreed investment policy and approved investment guidelines and, if necessary, approves changes to the guidelines.
Personal Assets Trust Administration Company Limited provides secretarial and administrative services to the Company.
The Company does not have an internal audit function as the Audit Committee believes that the Companys straightforward structure and small number of employees do not warrant such a function.
This is reviewed by the Committee annually.
GOING CONCERN The Directors believe, in the light of the controls and review processes noted above and bearing in mind the nature of the Groups business and assets, which are considered to be readily realisable if required, that the Group has adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
By Order of the Board Steven K Davidson Secretary 10 St Colme Street Edinburgh EH3 6AA 4 June 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 21
