NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the 32nd Annual General Meeting AGM of Personal Assets Trust Public Limited Company will be held at The Roxburghe Hotel, 38 Charlotte Square, Edinburgh, on Thursday 25 July 2013 at 11.30 am for the following purposes: To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions which will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions: 1.
That the Report and Accounts for the year to 30 April 2013 be received.
That the Directors Remuneration Report for the year to 30 April 2013 be approved.
That Hamish Buchan, who retires from office annually, be re-elected as a Director.
That Gordon Neilly, who retires from office annually, be re-elected as a Director.
That Stuart Paul, who retires from office annually, be re-elected as a Director.
That Frank Rushbrook, who retires from office annually, be re-elected as a Director.
That Robin Angus, who retires from office annually, be re-elected as a Director.
That Ernst & Young LLP be re-appointed as Auditors and that the Directors be authorised to determine their remuneration.
Authority to allot shares That, in substitution for any existing authority, but without prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof, the Directors of the Company be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company Securities provided that such authority shall be limited to the allotment of shares and the grant of rights in respect of shares with an aggregate nominal value of up to 6,250,000, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or on the expiry of 15 months from the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in a general meeting, save that the Company may at any time prior to the expiry of this authority make an offer or enter into an agreement which would or might require Securities to be allotted or granted after the expiry of such authority and the Directors shall be entitled to allot or grant Securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if such authority had not expired.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions which will be proposed as Special Resolutions: 10.
Disapplication of pre-emption rights That, subject to the passing of Resolution 9 above, and in substitution for any existing power but without prejudice to the exercise of any such power prior to the date hereof, the Directors of the Company be and are hereby generally empowered, pursuant to Section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 of the Act, including the grant of rights to subscribe for, or to convert securities into, Ordinary shares held by the Company as Treasury shares as defined in Section 724 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority given by Resolution 9 above as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment of equity securities, provided that this power: a expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or on the expiry of 15 months from the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired: and 44 Personal Assets Trust PLC NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED b shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 6,250,000, being 29.3% of the nominal value of the issued share capital of the Company as at 4 June 2013.
This power applies in relation to a sale of shares which is an allotment of equity securities by virtue of Section 560 2 of the Act as if in the first paragraph of this resolution the words subject to the passing of Resolution 9 above were omitted.
Share buy-back authority That, in substitution for any existing authority but without prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof, the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, pursuant to and in accordance with Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act of fully paid Ordinary shares of 12.50 each in the capital of the Company Ordinary shares either for retention as Treasury shares for future reissue, resale, transfer or for cancellation, provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 255,700: b the minimum price excluding expenses which may be paid for each Ordinary share is 12.50: c the maximum price excluding expenses which may be paid for each Ordinary share shall not be greater than the higher of: i 5% above the average middle market quotation on the London Stock Exchange of an Ordinary share over the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and ii the higher of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange: and d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed by the Company in a general meeting, the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting or on 31 October 2014, whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase Ordinary shares under such authority which will or might be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract.
That a General Meeting of the Company other than an Annual General Meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
By Order of the Board Steven K Davidson Secretary 10 St Colme Street Edinburgh EH3 6AA 4 June 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED Notes 1.
A shareholder who is entitled to attend, speak and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote on his her behalf.
Such proxy need not also be a shareholder of the Company.
If appointing more than one proxy, each proxy must be appointed to exercise rights attaching to different shares held by the shareholder.
A proxy form for use by shareholders at the meeting is enclosed with this document.
Proxies must be lodged with the Companys registrar, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, not less than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the time appointed for the meeting together with any power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed.
Completion of the proxy form will not prevent a shareholder from attending the meeting and voting in person.
Only those shareholders having their names entered on the Companys share register not later than 6.00 pm on 23 July 2013 or, if the meeting is adjourned, 6.00 pm on the day which is 2 days excluding non working days prior to the date of the adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the entries on the Companys share register after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any shareholder to attend, speak and vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any provision in any enactment, the Articles of Association of the Company or other instrument to the contrary.
Any corporation which is a shareholder can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a shareholder provided that such corporate representatives do not do so in relation to the same shares.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual, and by logging on to the website www.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys registrar, Equiniti Limited ID RA 19, by no later than 11.30 am on 23 July 2013.
No such message received through the CREST network after this time will be accepted.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST application host from which the Companys registrar is able to retrieve the message by inquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his her CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
46 Personal Assets Trust PLC NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED 6.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communications from the Company in accordance with Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 Nominated Persons.
Nominated Persons may have a right under an agreement with the member who holds the shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if Nominated Persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in notes 1 and 2 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these notes can be exercised only by members of the Company.
As at 4 June 2013, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the Companys issued share capital comprised 1,705,823 Ordinary shares of 12.50 each with a total of 1,705,823 voting rights.
Any person holding 3% of the total voting rights in the Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman as his her proxy will need to ensure that both he she and such third party comply with their respective disclosure obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Information regarding the meeting, including information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, is available from the Companys website, www.
Under Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company must answer any question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting put by a member attending the meeting unless: a answering the question would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Shareholders are advised that, unless otherwise stated, any telephone number, website or e-mail address which may be set out in this notice of meeting or in any related documents including the proxy form is not to be used for the purposes of serving information or documents on, or otherwise communicating with, the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
The members of the Company may require the Company without payment to publish, on its website, a statement which is also to be passed to the auditors setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts, including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit.
The Company will be required to do so once it has received such requests from either members representing at least 5% of the total voting rights of the Company or at least 100 members who have a relevant right to vote and hold shares in the Company on which there has been paid up an average sum per member of at least 100.
Such requests must be made in writing and must state the senders full name and address and be sent to the Companys registered address at 10 St Colme Street, Edinburgh EH3 6AA.
The letters of appointment of the non-executive Directors and the service contract of the executive Director will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from the date of this notice and at the location of the meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting.
Members meeting the threshold requirements set out in the Companies Act 2006 have the right a to require the Company to give notice of any resolution which can properly be, and is to be, moved at the meeting pursuant to section 338 of the Companies Act 2006: and or b to include a matter in the business to be dealt with at the meeting, pursuant to section 338A of the Companies Act 2006.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 47 Personal Assets Trust PLC, 10 St Colme Street, Edinburgh EH3 6AA.
