CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Directors fees are determined within the limits set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
The approval of shareholders in a General Meeting is required to change this limit.
Director Date of Appointment Due date for Re-election Hamish Buchan Chairman 5 July 2001 AGM 2013 Robin Angus Executive Director 18 May 1984 AGM 2013 Martin Hamilton-Sharp 16 November 1990 Gordon Neilly 30 April 1997 AGM 2013 Stuart Paul 16 July 2009 AGM 2013 Frank Rushbrook 16 July 2009 AGM 2013 Any new Directors appointed during the year must stand for re-appointment at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
All executive and non-executive Directors retire annually and, where appropriate, stand for re-election.
Other than for Robin Angus there is no notice period and no provision for compensation on early termination of appointment.
Only Robin Angus has a contract of service with the Company.
Details of this service contract, his remuneration, and fees paid to other Directors during the year are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Individual Directors may, after having obtained the consent of any other Director, seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense on any matter that concerns the furtherance of their duties.
Details of the Directors authority in relation to the issue and buying back by the Company of its shares can be found in the Directors Report.
Similarly, details of those persons with significant holdings in the Company are set out in the Directors Report.
MEETINGS During the year there were six Board meetings, each of which was attended by all of the Directors except Gordon Neilly, who attended five meetings.
There were three Audit Committee meetings, two Remuneration Committee meetings and a Nominations Committee meeting held during the year.
All of these meetings were attended by all of the respective committee members except Gordon Neilly, who attended two Audit Committee meetings and one Remuneration Committee meeting.
The following highlights various matters considered by the Board during the past year: May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr Annual Dividend Approval Consider London Internal Corporate Consider General Policy of the Interim 3rd Interim Shareholder Controls Governance 1st Interim Meeting Report Dividend Meeting Review Review Dividend Revisions to Board and Approval of Interim Impact of Approval of Annual Review Review Investment Committee Supplementary Review of AIFM Supplementary of Risk of Directors and Dividend Evaluation Prospectus Risk Registers Directive Prospectus Registers Fees Policies Review Approval Impact of Consider Impact of Consider Appointment of the AIFM 2nd Interim AIFM 4th Interim of Investment Annual Report Directive Dividend Directive Dividend Adviser Impact of Impact of Impact of AIFM AIFM AIFM Directive Directive Directive Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19
