DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY The Companys payment policy is to settle investment transactions in accordance with market practice and to ensure settlement of supplier invoices in accordance with stated terms.
The Company did not have any trade creditors at the year end.
AUDITOR Ernst & Young LLP has indicated its willingness to continue in office as Auditor and a resolution proposing its re-appointment will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
RESOLUTIONS TO BE PROPOSED AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Annual Report and Accounts Resolutions 1 and 2 are, respectively, to receive the Annual Report and Accounts for the year to 30 April 2013 and to approve the Directors Remuneration Report contained therein.
Directors Resolutions 3, 4, 5 and 6 are, respectively, to re-elect Hamish Buchan, Gordon Neilly, Stuart Paul and Frank Rushbrook, all of whom retire annually.
Resolution 7 is to re-elect Robin Angus, who, as an executive Director, also retires annually.
The Board confirms that each of the Directors seeking re-election continues to make a significant contribution to Board deliberations, and that Robin Angus continues to undertake his executive duties in an effective and committed manner.
The Board therefore believes that it is in the interests of shareholders that the above Directors be re-elected.
Auditors Resolution 8 is to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors and fix their remuneration.
Authority to Issue Shares During the year the Company issued two supplementary Prospectuses and a new Prospectus to allow the Company to continue its policy of issuing shares at a small premium to net asset value where the market allows.
In order to meet the continuing demand for shares, two resolutions will be proposed.
Resolution 9 is to authorise the Directors to issue new shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,250,000, being 29.3% of the total issued shares as at 4 June 2013.
Resolution 10 is to enable the Directors to issue such new shares and to re-sell shares from Treasury see Treasury Shares below up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,250,000, being 29.3% of the total issued shares as at 4 June 2013, for cash without first offering such shares to existing shareholders pro rata to their existing shareholdings.
If approved by shareholders, the authorities sought by Resolutions 9 and 10 will continue in effect until 31 October 2014, or, if earlier, the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2014.
The Directors issue new shares only when they believe it is advantageous to the Companys shareholders to do so and for the purpose of operating the Companys premium control policy.
In no circumstances would such issue of new shares or re-sale of shares from Treasury result in a dilution of net asset value per share.
Authority to Buy Back Shares During the year, the Company did not acquire any of its own shares, either for cancellation or to be held in Treasury.
The Companys current authority to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of the issued Ordinary shares expires at the end of the Annual General Meeting.
