NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 15.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Group holds investments in listed companies and fixed interest securities, holds cash balances and has receivables and payables.
It may from time to time also invest in FTSE 100 Futures and enter into forward currency contracts.
Cash balances are held for future investment and forward currency contracts are used to manage the exchange risk of holding foreign investments.
Further information is given in the Business Review for the Year to 30 April 2013 on pages 911.
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group at 30 April 2013 is not different from their carrying value in the financial statements.
The Group is exposed to various types of risk that are associated with financial instruments.
The most important types are credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, market price risk and foreign currency risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing its risk exposures.
These policies are summarised below and have remained unchanged for the year under review.
Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk that an issuer or counterparty will be unable or unwilling to meet a commitment that it has entered into with the Group.
The Groups principal financial assets are investments, cash balances and other receivables, which represent the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets.
The Group did not have any exposure to any financial assets which were passed due or impaired at the year end 2012: none.
The Group is exposed to potential failure by counterparties to deliver securities for which the Group has paid, or to pay for securities which the Group has delivered.
A list of pre-approved counterparties used in such transactions is maintained and regularly reviewed by the Group, and transactions must be settled on a basis of delivery against payment.
Broker counterparties are selected based on a combination of criteria, including credit rating, balance sheet strength and membership of a relevant regulatory body.
Risk relating to unsettled transactions is considered to be small because of the short settlement period involved and the credit quality of the brokers used.
All of the assets of the Group, other than cash deposits and receivables, are held by JPMorgan Chase Bank, the Groups custodian.
Bankruptcy or insolvency of the custodian might cause the Groups rights with respect to the securities held by the custodian to be delayed or limited.
The Board monitors the Groups risk by reviewing the custodians internal control reports on a regular basis.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings, rated A or higher, assigned by international credit rating agencies.
Bankruptcy or insolvency of such financial institutions might cause the Groups ability to access cash placed on deposit to be delayed or limited.
The Group has no concentration of credit risk and exposure is spread over a large number of counterparties.
