NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED DEFERRED TAXATION Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
INVESTMENTS Investments are recognised and derecognised on the trade date where a purchase or sale is under a contract the terms of which require delivery within a period of time established by the market concerned, and are measured at fair value being the consideration payable or receivable.
Investments are designated in terms of IFRS as investments held at fair value through profit or loss, and are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value, which is either the bid price or the last traded price, depending on the convention of the exchange on which the investment is quoted.
Investments in unit trusts or OEICs are valued at the closing price released by the relevant investment manager.
The subsidiary is valued at fair value by the Directors on the basis of all information available to them at the time of valuation.
CAPITAL REDEMPTION RESERVE The Capital Redemption Reserve represents the nominal value of Ordinary shares bought back for cancellation by the Company since authority to do this was first obtained at an Extraordinary General Meeting in April 1999.
SPECIAL RESERVE The cost of any shares bought back for cancellation is deducted from the Special Reserve, which is a distributable reserve and was created from the Share Premium Account, also following the Extraordinary General Meeting in April 1999.
CAPITAL RESERVE Gains and losses on the realisation of investments, gains and losses on the realisation of FTSE 100 Future contracts, realised exchange differences of a capital nature and returns of capital are accounted for in this Reserve.
Increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held at the year end, unrealised gains and losses on FTSE 100 Future contracts and unrealised exchange differences of a capital nature are also accounted for in this Reserve.
REVENUE RESERVE Any surplus deficit arising from the revenue profit loss for the year is taken to from this Reserve.
FOREIGN CURRENCY Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the actual exchange rate as at the date of the transaction.
