ACCOUNTING POLICIES The financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
These comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, together with such interpretations by the International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee as have been approved by the IASB and still remain in effect, to the extent that these have been adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except where otherwise indicated.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Where the presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice the SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies the AIC in January 2010 is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, the Directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis compliant with the recommendation of the SORP.
A number of new standards have been issued but are not effective for this accounting period.
These have not been adopted early and the Group does not consider that the future adoption of any new standards, in the form currently available, will have any material impact on the financial statements as presented.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and the entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 30 April each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
The Company has availed itself of the relief from showing an Income Statement for the parent company, granted under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The profit of the Company for the year ended 30 April 2013 was 31,529,000.
PRESENTATION OF INCOME STATEMENT In order better to reflect the activities of an investment trust company, and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the Income Statement between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside the Income Statement.
INCOME Dividends are recognised as income when the shareholders right to receive payment has been established, normally the ex-dividend date.
Dividends receivable on equity shares where no ex-dividend date is quoted are recognised when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
Where the Company has received its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than cash, the cash equivalent is recognised as income.
Dividends from overseas companies are shown gross of withholding tax.
Fixed interest returns on non-equity securities are recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on the investment.
In practical terms this means that both the coupons and the principal are adjusted to take account of accrued inflation since the bonds first issue date.
