Directors Report 3 Directors Michael Moule Brian Ashford-Russell Sarah Bates # Peter Dicks # Independent nonNon-executive Independent nonIndependent nonexecutive Chairman.
director, appointed to executive director, executive director, Appointed the Board in 1996. appointed to the Board appointed to the Board to the Board in 2007 in 2011. in 1996 and elected Skills and experience and was elected Senior Independent Brian Ashford-Russell is Skills and experience Chairman in August Director in 2004.
He a director and founder of Sarah Bates is the 2011.
He is also is Chairman of the Polar Capital Partners.
immediate past Chairman chairman of the Remuneration He was previously head of the Association of Management Committee.
of the technology team Investment Companies and Engagement at Henderson Global has been involved in the UK Skills and experience and Nomination Investors.
He managed savings and investment Peter Dicks has been Committees.
the Company from launch industry in different roles involved with the venture until 30 April 2006. for over 30 Years.
capital industry since Skills and experience 1974 when he co-founded Other Appointments Michael Moule was a Other Appointments Abingworth plc.
Since 1992 He is a non-executive director of investment Sarah Bates holds non He has served chairman director of Polar Capital trusts at Henderson Global executive directorships or non-executive director Holdings plc.
Investors, where he had at St. Jamess Place Plc, on a number of investment been the investment Development Securities As Brian Ashford-Russell vehicles as well as manager for The Bankers Plc, New India Investment is connected to the commercial enterprises Investment Trust plc Trust Plc, Witan Pacific investment manager, such as Sportingbet plc and and Law Debenture Investment Trust Plc, he stands for annual Standard Microsystems Inc.
Corporation plc until JP Morgan American re-election.
Investment Trust Plc and Other Appointments Worldwide Health Trust plc.
He is the Chairman of Other Appointments She is also Chairman of the Private Equity Investor plc He is a director of The Stena UK pension fund and and a director of several European Investment Trust Chairman of the Cancer other companies including plc and Montanaro UK Research UK pension funds Graphite Enterprise Trust plc.
Smaller Companies investment committee as Investment Trust plc.
well as being a member of Peter Dicks retires at the He is a member of the a number of other haritable conclusion of the AGM on investment committee of and pension fund 2 September 2013. the British Heart Foundation investment committees.
and a member of the investment committee of The Open University.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 42 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013
