Directors Report 3 Statement of Directors Responsibilities regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of In Respect of the Annual Report, the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for Directors Remuneration Report safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and Financial Statements and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance financial statements in accordance with applicable and integrity of the Companys website.
in the United Kingdom governing the preparation Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial and dissemination of financial statements may differ statements for each financial year.
Under that law the from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors have prepared the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Disclosure of Information to the Auditors Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the As far as the Directors are aware and to the best of their European Union.
In preparing these financial statements, knowledge, having made enquiries, there is no relevant the Directors have also elected to comply with IFRSs, audit information of which the Auditors are unaware and issued by the International Accounting Standards Board the Directors have taken steps to make themselves aware IASB.
Under company law the Directors must not of any relevant audit information and to establish that the approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied Auditors are aware of such information.
that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Going Concern Company and Group for that period.
In preparing these The Boards assessment of the Groups position as at financial statements, the Directors are required to: 30 April 2013 and the factors impacting the forthcoming year are set out in the Chairmans Statement and the select suitable accounting policies and then apply Investment Managers Report on pages 8 to 21 and in the them consistently: Directors Report which incorporates the business review make judgements and accounting estimates that are and corporate governance statements.
reasonable and prudent: The financial position of the Group and its liquidity position state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the is described in the Business Review on pages 46 to 55.
Note European Union have been followed, subject to any 29 to the financial statements includes the Groups policies material departures disclosed and explained in the and process for managing its capital: its financial risk financial statements: management objectives: details of financial instruments and hedging activities.
Exposure to credit risk and liquidity prepare the financial statements on the going concern risk are also disclosed.
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Group has considerable financial resources and after making enquiries the Directors have a reasonable The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate expectation that the Company and Group have adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain resources to continue in operational existence for the the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable foreseeable future despite the continued uncertain accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company economic outlook.
Accordingly the Directors continue to and the Group and enable them to ensure that the adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual financial statements and the Directors Remuneration report and financial statements.
Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 66 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 Responsibility Statement under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules The Directors of Polar Capital Technology Trust plc, who are listed on pages 42 and 43, confirm to the best of their knowledge: The financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and The Chairmans Statement, Investment Managers Report and Directors Report together constituting the Management Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and financial position of the Company and undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, and include a description of the principal risks and uncertainties.
The financial statements were approved by the Board on 15 July 2013 and the responsibility statement was signed on its behalf by Michael Moule, Chairman of the Board.
Michael Moule Chairman Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 67
