The Board has determined that reporting against the Annual General Meeting AIC Code provides the most appropriate information The Annual General Meeting will be held on Monday to shareholders.
The Companys policies on corporate 2 September 2013 at 12 noon at The Royal Automobile governance can be found on its website.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM as it provides an The report on corporate governance describes how opportunity for them to hear a presentation from the the principles of the AIC Code have been applied.
Investment Manager and meet the Directors.
Application of the AIC codes principles The separate Notice of Meeting contains resolutions The Board attaches great importance to the matters to receive the financial statements, approve the contained in the AIC Code and observed the relevant Directors remuneration report, re-elect retiring requirements throughout the year under review.
Directors, re-appoint the auditors and empower the Directors to set their fees.
As in previous years the The Board has considered the principles and Directors are also seeking powers to allot shares for recommendations of the AIC Code by reference to the AIC cash and to buy back shares for cancellation.
Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide and the Board believes that the Companys  LLP have expressed their current practices are consistent in all material respects willingness to continue in office as the Companys with the principles of the AIC Code.
Where non compliance independent auditors.
A resolution to re-appoint occurs, an explanation has been provided.
The Board will  LLP as independent auditors to continue to observe the principles and recommendations the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
set out in the AIC Code in future.
The full text of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM Directors and Board and an explanation of each resolution is contained in the Independence and composition separate Notice of Meeting.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall management of the Companys affairs and currently Report on Corporate Governance consists of seven non-executive Directors six of whom The Directors are accountable to shareholders for the are considered independent.
Each Director has different governance of the Companys affairs.
The UK Listing qualities and areas of expertise on which they may lead Rules require all listed companies to disclose how where issues arise.
The Chairman is responsible for the they have applied the principles and complied with leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness on the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the all aspects of its role.
UK Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the FRC.
The UK Code can be viewed at www.
uk The Directors are listed on pages 42 to 43 along with their biographical details which demonstrate the breadth The Financial Reporting Council confirmed in 2010 that of investment, commercial and professional experience by following the AIC Code of Corporate Governance relevant to their positions as Directors of the Company.
AIC Code and the Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies produced by the AIC, boards of All the Directors, with the exception of Brian Ashfordinvestment companies should fully meet their obligations Russell, were considered independent of the Investment in relation to the UK Code and the UK Listing Rules.
Manager and had no relationship or conflicts which were The AIC code and AIC guide address the principles set likely to affect their independent judgment.
Consequently out in the UK Code as well as additional principles the majority of the Board is independent of the Investment and recommendations on issues that are specific to Manager and the Board considers that its overall investment trusts.
The AIC Code can be viewed at composition is adequate for the effective governance www.
As an investment company most of the day to day The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on responsibilities are delegated to outside parties as the pages 64 and 65.
Company has no employees and all the Directors are non-executive.
Many of the provisions of the UK Code are not directly applicable to the Company.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 55
