Financial Statements 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and International Accounting Standards Committee IASC, as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and IFRIC guidance.
The Groups presentational currency is pounds Sterling.
Pounds Sterling is also the functional currency of the Company and its subsidiary because it is the currency which is most relevant to the majority of the Companys shareholders and the currency in which the majority of the Groups operating expenses are paid.
The principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently for all years presented are set out below: 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of Preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, as modified by the inclusion of investments and derivative financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC in January 2009 is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, the directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis compliant with the recommendations of the SORP.
The financial position of the Group as at 30 April 2013 is shown in the balance sheet on page 72.
As at 30April2013 the Groups total assets exceeded its total liabilities by a multiple of over 22.
The assets of the Group consist mainly of securities that are held in accordance with the Companys investment policy, as set out on page 46 and these securities are readily realisable.
The Directors consider that the Company has adequate financial resources to enable it to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Groups financial statements.
b Basis of Consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its wholly owned subsidiary undertaking, PCT Finance Limited made up to 30 April each year.
In the financial statements of the parent company, investment in the subsidiary is recognised at fair value.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
The accounting policies of the subsidiary have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
The Statement of Comprehensive Income is only presented in consolidated form, as provided by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. c Presentation of Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income In order to better reflect the activities of an investment trust company and in accordance with the guidance set out by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The results presented in the revenue return column is the measure the directors believe appropriate in assessing the Groups compliance with certain requirements set out in section 1158 of the Corporation Taxes Act 2010. d Income Dividends receivable from equity shares are taken to the revenue return column of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income on an ex-dividend basis.
Special dividends are recognised on an ex-dividend basis and may be considered to be either revenue or capital items.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 74 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 The facts and circumstances are considered on a case by case basis before a conclusion on appropriate allocation is reached.
Where the Company has received dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash, the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised in the revenue return column of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Any excess in value of shares received over the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised in the capital return column of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Bank interest and other income receivable are accounted for on an accruals basis and is recognised in the period in which it was earned.
The dealing profits of the subsidiary undertaking, representing realised gains and losses on the sale of current asset investments, are dealt with in the Group financial statements as a revenue item.
e Expenses and Finance Costs All expenses, including finance costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis.
All expenses have been presented as revenue items except as follows: a ny performance fees payable are allocated wholly to capital, reflecting the fact that, although they are calculated on a total return basis, they are expected to be attributable largely, if not wholly, to capital performance.
transaction costs incurred on the acquisition or disposal of investments are expensed either as part of the unrealised gain loss on investments for acquisition costs or as a deduction from the proceeds of sale for disposal costs.
Finance costs are calculated using the effective interest rate method and are accounted for on an accruals basis.
f Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the overseas withholding tax deducted from investment income, tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate tax relief on expenses presented against capital returns in the supplementary information in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses presented in the revenue return column of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital return column.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Investment trusts which have approval as such under section 1158 of the Corporation Taxes Act 2010 are not liable for taxation on capital gains.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 75 Financial Statements 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 30 April 2013 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES f Taxation continued The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
g Investments Held at Fair Value Through Profit or loss When a purchase or sale is made under contract, the terms of which require delivery within the timeframe of the relevant market, the investments concerned are recognised or derecognised on the trade date and are initially measured at fair value.
On initial recognition the Group has designated all of its investments as held at fair value through profit or loss as defined by IFRS.
All investments are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value, which is either the bid price or the last traded price, depending on the convention of the exchange on which the investment is quoted.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated in the Companys financial statements at fair value.
Investments in unit trusts or OEICs are valued at the closing price, the bid price or the single price as appropriate, released by the relevant investment manager.
Fair values for unquoted investments, or for investments for which there is only an inactive market, are established by using various valuation techniques.
These may include recent arms length market transactions, the current fair value of another instrument that is substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models.
Where there is a valuation technique commonly used by market participants to price the instrument and that technique has been demonstrated to provide reliable estimates of prices obtained in actual market transactions, that technique is utilised.
Where no reliable fair value can be estimated for such instruments, they are carried at cost, subject to any provision for impairment.
Changes in fair value of all investments held at fair value and realised gains and losses on disposal are recognised in the capital return column of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
h Other Receivables Other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Other receivables do not carry any interest and are short-term in nature and are accordingly stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
i Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits.
Cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash.
In the Statement of Cash Flows cash and cash equivalents also include bank overdrafts.
In the Balance Sheet bank overdrafts are shown within current liabilities.
j Other Payables Other payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Other payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 76 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 k Bank Loans All bank loans are initially recognised at fair value, being the fair value of the consideration received, less issue costs where applicable.
After initial recognition these loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on settlement.
The amounts falling due for repayment within one year are included under current liabilities in the Balance Sheet.
l Rates of Exchange Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of each transaction.
Monetary assets, monetary liabilities and equity investments in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on that date.
Realised profits or losses on exchange, together with differences arising on the translation of foreign currency assets or liabilities, are taken to the capital return column of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Foreign exchange gains and losses arising on investments held at fair value are included within changes in fair value.
m Share Capital Represents the nominal value of authorised and allocated, called-up and fully paid shares issued.
n Capital Reserves Capital reserves gains losses on disposal includes: gains losses on disposal of investments exchange differences on currency balances and on settlement of loan balances cost of own shares bought back other capital charges and credits charged to this account in accordance with the accounting policies above Capital reserve revaluation on investments held includes: increases and decreases in the valuation of investments and loans held at the year end.
All of the above are accounted for in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income except the cost of own shares bought back which is accounted for in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
o Derivative Financial Instruments The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in market prices, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
Derivative transactions which the Group may enter into comprise forward exchange contracts, the purpose of which is to manage the currency risks arising from the Groups investing activities, quoted options on shares held within the portfolio, or on indices appropriate to sections of the portfolio, the purpose of which is to provide protection against falls in capital values of the holdings: and loan interest rate swaps, the purpose of which is to manage interest rate risk.
The Group does not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies as approved by the Board, which has set written principles for the use of financial derivatives.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 77 Financial Statements 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 30 April 2013 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES o Derivative Financial Instruments continued A derivative instrument is considered to be used for hedging purposes when it alters the market risk profile of an existing underlying exposure of the Group.
The use of financial derivatives by the Group does not qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS.
As a result changes in the fair value of derivative instruments are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income as they arise.
If capital in nature, associated change in value is presented in the capital return column of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The Group has entered into two floating fixed rate swap transactions on Yen and US Dollars.
The swap allows the variable LIBOR part of the US Dollar and Yen loans to be swapped for a fixed amount.
The Group uses its interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to interest rate movements on its Japanese Yen and US Dollar bank borrowings.
A Japanese Yen contract with a nominal value of Y750 million has fixed interest payments at a rate of 0.46% and floating interest receipts at Yen LIBOR.
A US Dollar contract with a nominal value of $23 million has fixed interest payments at a rate of 0.81% and floating interest receipts at USD LIBOR.
The fair value of the swap entered into at 30 April 2013 is estimated as 16,000 in favour of the lender 30April2012: 22,000 in favour of the lender.
Where the fair value of the swap is in favour of the lender it is represented by a liability on the balance sheet.
If in favour of the company it is represented by an asset.
Changes in the fair value of the swap are treated as a finance cost and charged 100% to revenue.
The fair value of the swaps is calculated based on mark to market values.
p Segmental Reporting Under IFRS 8, Operating Segments, operating segments are considered to be the components of an entity about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.
The chief operating decision maker has been identified as the Manager with oversight from the Board.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Group has two business segments, being the parent Company, Polar Capital Technology Trust plc, which has the objective of maximising capital growth for its shareholders through investing in a diversified portfolio of technology companies around the world, and its wholly owned subsidiary, PCT Finance Limited, which trades in securities to enhance Group returns.
An analysis of financial results and balances by business segment is set out in note 28.
The amounts presented for each segment are based on the accounting policies adopted in the Group financial statements.
Discrete financial information for these segments is reviewed regularly by the Manager who allocate resources, and the Board who oversees the Managers performance.
In line with IFRS 8, additional disclosure by geographical segment has been provided in note 28.
Further analyses of expenses, investment gains or losses, profit and other assets and liabilities by country have not been given as either it is not possible to prepare such information in a meaningful way or the results are not considered to be significant.
q Key Estimates and Assumptions Estimates and assumptions used in preparing the financial statements are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The results of these estimates and assumptions form the basis of making judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 78 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 The only estimates and assumptions that may cause material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities relate to the valuation of unquoted investments and investments for which there is an inactive market.
These are valued in accordance with the techniques set out in note 1 g. At the year end, unquoted investments represent 0.1% of net assets.
r Accounting Standards a Standards, amendments and interpretations becoming effective in the year to 30 April 2013: There are no new standards effective in the current year.
b Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards become effective in future accounting periods and have not been adopted early by the Group or Company: I FRS 7 amendment, Financial Instruments Disclosures effective for periods beginning on or after 1January 2013.
Amendments enhancing disclosures about offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities.
IFRS 7 amendment, Financial Instruments Disclosures effective for periods beginning on or after 1January 2015 or otherwise when IFRS 9 first applied.
Amendments requiring disclosures about initial application of IFRS 9.
IFRS 9, Financial Instruments effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
Replaces IAS 39, simplifies accounting for financial assets, replacing the current multiple measurement categories with a single principle-based approach to classification.
All financial assets to be measured at either amortised cost or fair value.
The Group will apply IFRS 9 from 1 May 2015, subject to endorsement by the EU.
IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
Provides additional guidance to assist in the determination of control where this is difficult to assess.
The Group will apply IFRS 10 from 1 May 2013.
IFRS 12, Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities effective for periods beginning on or after 1January2013.
Includes the disclosure requirement for all forms of interest in other entities, including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles.
IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
Aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across all IFRSs.
The Group will apply IFRS 13 from 1 May 2013.
IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements effective for periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012.
Amendments to revise the way other comprehensive income is presented.
The Group will apply this amendment from 1 May 2013.
IAS 32, Financial Instruments Presentation effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
Aims to provide clarity on the offsetting of financial assets and liabilities on the balance sheet.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 79
