Shareholder Information 6 Subscription Shares The final Exercise Date for the Subscription Rights is the last working day of March 2014.
A reminder of this will be sent to subscription shareholders when the half year report is published in December 2013.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc issued, as a Bonus Issue, free of cost, subscription shares on 11 February 2011 to its qualifying shareholders.
The subscription shares were admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange on 14February 2011.
Subscription shares offer the right to subscribe for ordinary shares of the Company at pre-determined dates at predetermined prices and can be bought and sold independently of the ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange.
The subscription price is 478p per ordinary share.
If you exercised your subscription rights up to the last business day in March 2012, the subscription price was 401p per ordinary share.
The subscription prices were set by reference to the unaudited Net Asset Value per ordinary share as at close of business on 9 February 2011 of 381.87p, plus a 5% premium in the first 12 months and a 25% premium for the remainder of their life, rounded up to the nearest whole penny.
The subscription shares were issued to qualifying shareholders whose names were on the share register as at the close of business on the 10 February 2011 on the terms and conditions set out in Part IV of the Prospectus which was published by the Company on 18 January 2011.
Given restrictions on the issuance of shares applying to certain jurisdictions, shareholders who are not resident in the EEA, Isle of Man or the Channel Isles overseas shareholders did not receive the subscription shares.
However, the Company allotted any subscription shares due to them to a market maker who sold these subscription shares at 28p each and the proceeds of the sale were then paid to the overseas shareholders entitled to them save that entitlements of less than 5.00 per overseas shareholder were retained by the Company.
Fractions of subscription shares were not issued or allotted and entitlements were rounded down to the nearest whole number of subscription shares.
Subscription shares are qualifying investments for the stocks and shares component of an ISA, and are eligible for inclusion in a UK SIPP.
Exercise of subscription rights Each subscription share gives the holder the right, but not the obligation, to subscribe for an ordinary share on the last business day of each calendar month during the exercise period from the last business day of March 2011 to the last business day of March 2014 both dates inclusive.
After the last business day of March 2014, the right to convert subscription shares will lapse.
Within seven days following the last business day of March 2014 the Company will appoint a trustee who provided that in its opinion the net proceeds of sale will exceed the costs of exercising the subscription rights, will either: i e xercise all the subscription rights which have not been exercised on the terms prevailing on the final subscription date and sell the resulting ordinary shares in the market: or ii if it appears to the trustee that doing so is likely to realise greater net proceeds for subscription shareholders accept any offer available to subscription shareholders for the purchase of the outstanding subscription shares.
The trustee will then distribute the net proceeds pro rata to the subscription shareholders, provided that entitlements of under 5.00 will be retained for the benefit of the Company.
If the trustee shall not exercise the subscription rights within 14 days following the final subscription date all subscription rights shall lapse.
The new ordinary shares arising from the exercise of subscription rights will be allotted within ten business days of the first business day of the following month.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 110 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 If immediately after any subscription date subscription rights have been exercised or cancelled in respect of 75 per cent.
or more of the subscription shares originally issued subject to the adjustments in accordance with the Companys Articles, the Company may give notice in writing to all outstanding subscription shareholders that a final subscription date will take place earlier than March 2014.
Subscription share conversion certificated form Holders wishing to convert their subscription shares, in whole or in part, who hold their shares in the form of a subscription share certificate, should refer to the instructions on the reverse of their certificate.
The subscription shareholder must lodge a completed subscription notice on the reverse of the certificate at the office of the registrars for the Company Equiniti by not later than 5.00 p. m. on the last business day of the relevant month, accompanied by a remittance for the subscription price for the ordinary shares.
Subscription share conversion through CREST Holders wishing to convert their subscription shares, in whole or in part, who hold their shares through CREST, should submit an Uncertificated Subscription Notice to be received by no later than 5.00 p. m. on the last business day of the relevant month and a remittance for the aggregate subscription price for the ordinary shares in respect of which the subscription rights are being exercised.
The following participant and member account IDs should be used when processing their applications: CREST Participant ID 6RA67 CREST Member Account ID RA172707 Tax implications For the purposes of UK capital gains tax and corporation tax on chargeable gains, the issue of subscription Shares pursuant to the Bonus Issue should be treated as a reorganisation of the Companys share capital.
For qualifying shareholders subject to UK taxation, subscription shares will be treated on receipt as part of a single asset comprised of the subscription shares and that shareholders existing ordinary share holding.
The tax base cost of that single asset will be the consideration given for the existing holding of ordinary shares.
While qualifying shareholders should not be treated as making a disposal of all or part of their existing holdings of ordinary shares by reason of the bonus Issue, for the purpose of calculating chargeable gains or allocating losses on future disposals of subscription shares and or ordinary shares, qualifying shareholders must apportion the base costs of the deemed single assets between their existing ordinary shares and any subscription shares received.
The base cost for UK tax purposes of the subscription shares acquired pursuant to the Bonus Issue will be a proportion of the original base cost of your ordinary shares.
The apportionment is made by reference to the respective market values of the ordinary shares and subscription shares on 14 February 2011, the day the subscription shares were admitted to trading.
The prices of the Companys ordinary shares and subscription shares for the purposes of allocating your base cost were as follows: ordinary shares 389.25p subscription shares 25.25p Accordingly an individual investor who on 10 February 2011 held five ordinary shares or a multiple thereof would have received one subscription share or the relevant multiple thereof pursuant to the Bonus Issue and would apportion the base cost of such holding 98.722% to the five ordinary shares and 1.278% to the subscription shares.
If you exercise the subscription rights attaching to your subscription shares on any subscription date, the resulting ordinary shares will be treated for UK tax purposes as the same asset as the subscription shares in respect of which the subscription rights are exercised.
The base cost for UK tax purposes of the resulting ordinary shares will be the base cost attributed to the exercised subscription shares, increased by the amount of subscription monies paid.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013111 Shareholder Information 6 Subscription Shares continued ISAs Investments held in ISAs are free of UK tax on income and gains.
Receipt of subscription shares and any subsequent disposal of subscription shares held in an ISA at a gain should not be a chargeable event for UK capital gains tax purposes.
As an ISA holder, you may subscribe for ordinary shares pursuant to your subscription rights on any subscription date.
However, any new monies paid into your ISA to convert your subscription shares will contribute towards your annual ISA limit in the year in which you exercise your subscription rights and must not exceed the ISA allowance for that tax year.
Any subscription shares you convert to ordinary shares cannot be added retrospectively to previous ISAs.
They must be added to the current tax years ISA allowance.
The information provided on tax is a summary only of certain UK tax matters relevant to the Bonus Issue.
If you need tax advice you should contact a qualified tax professional.
Investors who are resident or otherwise subject to taxation outside the UK should, in particular, consult a professional adviser on the tax implications of the Bonus Issue.
Please note this is a summary of some of the information contained in the Prospectus issued by the Company on 18 January 2011 the Prospectus in connection with the bonus issue of the Subscription Shares the Bonus Issue and should be read as such.
Full details of the subscription shares, their issue and conversion are set out in the Prospectus and reference should be made to that document for a complete and full understanding of the matters terms of the subscription shares.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 112 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013
