Financial Statements 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and International Accounting Standards Committee IASC, as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and IFRIC guidance.
The Groups presentational currency is pounds Sterling.
Pounds Sterling is also the functional currency of the Company and its subsidiary because it is the currency which is most relevant to the majority of the Companys shareholders and the currency in which the majority of the Groups operating expenses are paid.
The principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently for all years presented are set out below: 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of Preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, as modified by the inclusion of investments and derivative financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC in January 2009 is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, the directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis compliant with the recommendations of the SORP.
The financial position of the Group as at 30 April 2013 is shown in the balance sheet on page 72.
As at 30April2013 the Groups total assets exceeded its total liabilities by a multiple of over 22.
The assets of the Group consist mainly of securities that are held in accordance with the Companys investment policy, as set out on page 46 and these securities are readily realisable.
The Directors consider that the Company has adequate financial resources to enable it to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Groups financial statements.
b Basis of Consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its wholly owned subsidiary undertaking, PCT Finance Limited made up to 30 April each year.
In the financial statements of the parent company, investment in the subsidiary is recognised at fair value.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
The accounting policies of the subsidiary have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
The Statement of Comprehensive Income is only presented in consolidated form, as provided by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. c Presentation of Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income In order to better reflect the activities of an investment trust company and in accordance with the guidance set out by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The results presented in the revenue return column is the measure the directors believe appropriate in assessing the Groups compliance with certain requirements set out in section 1158 of the Corporation Taxes Act 2010. d Income Dividends receivable from equity shares are taken to the revenue return column of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income on an ex-dividend basis.
Special dividends are recognised on an ex-dividend basis and may be considered to be either revenue or capital items.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 74 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013
