Managers Report and Portfolio Analysis 2 Managers Report Ben Rogoff of deflation via a programme of monetary Market Review 21.4% expansion, fiscal stimulus and Yen After a weak start global equities rallied depreciation.
Once again, corporate FTSE World Index during the remainder of the fiscal year earnings outpaced the global economy as total return with decisive intervention by the S&P earnings increased by more than 6% over the year European Central Bank in July proving a during the year.
turning point for both investor sentiment and the performance of risk assets, the While the economic backdrop proved less FTSE World total return index rising deleterious than many had feared in 2012, 21.4% during the year.
Sterling based this was largely due to policymakers returns were augmented by US Dollar proving alive to each major challenge that and Euro both 4% strength, partially presented itself.
This was most apparent offset by pronounced Yen weakness early in the fiscal year with the survival of -17%.
Despite a number of significant the Eurozone once again resurfacing as a challenges that presented themselves would-be existential issue.
ECB President Despite a number of during 2012, the global economy Mario Draghis July speech in which he significant challenges expanded at a respectable 3.2%, led by made clear that the ECB would do that presented emerging economies 5.1% with China whatever it takes to preserve the Euro themselves during 7.8% once again defying its critics was the key turning point for risk assets 2012, the global despite the potential disruption of a during the year.
It also proved the first economy expanded leadership transition.
As expected, of a series of critical market friendly at a respectable 3.2% developed economies 1.2% remained interventions that all but removed pressured by austerity measures that worst-case scenarios.
were most keenly felt in the Eurozone -0.6% that additionally had to contend The normalisation that followed ECB with regional challenges including a intervention also allowed real economic Once again, corporate banking crisis in Cyprus.
progress to be made with most of the earnings outpaced the periphery countries making progress in global economy as S&P Fortunately, European weakness was closing the unit labour cost gap with earnings increased by offset by economic acceleration in the Germany while some, such as Portugal, more than 6% during US 2.2%, driven by labour and housing took advantage of sharply lower sovereign the year market improvement and the absence of yields to cover their entire financing needs fiscal consolidation that only began in for 2013.
This positive feedback loop was earnest towards fiscal year end.
Japan also evident post the election of Shinzo 2% also made encouraging progress Abe in December with Japanese equities as early weakness relating to responding dramatically to market if not deteriorating relations with China over ECB President Mario currency friendly policies designed to the Senkaku islands was soon forgotten Draghis July speech break the deflationary cycle that has following the decisive election victory was the key turning stymied the Japanese economy since the by the LDP in December with new PM point for risk assets 1990s.
Likewise, resolution of the Shinzo Abe promising to end two decades during the year so-called fiscal cliff in January when Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 08 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013
