Shareholder Information 6 Warnings to Shareholders Investors should be aware of the following risks when considering investing in the shares of Polar Capital Technology Trust plc: Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
Please remember that any investment in the shares of Polar Capital Technology Trust either directly or through a savings scheme or ISA carries the risk that the value of your investment and any income from them may go down as well as up due to the fluctuations of the share price, the market and interest rates.
This risk may result in an investor not getting back their original amount invested.
Investors should be aware that the value of the NAV of the Companys shares may reflect the greater relative volatility of technology shares.
Technology shares are subject to the risks of developing technologies, competitive pressures and other factors including the acceptance by business and consumers of new technologies.
Many companies in the technology sector are smaller companies and are therefore also subject to the risks attendant on investing in smaller capitalisation businesses.
As the Company invests in overseas companies changes in exchange rates may cause fluctuations in the value of the investments and of your investment in the Company The Company takes on bank debt for investment purposes gearing which exposes the company to exchange risk when the borrowings are in different currencies and the value of the investments with the borrowing may fall and may not be sufficient to cover the borrowings and interest costs however the Company may increase or decrease its borrowing levels to suit market conditions.
If you are investing through a savings plan, ISA or other investment arrangement it is important that you read the key features documents and understand the risks associated with investing in the shares of the Company.
If you are in any doubt as to the suitability of a plan or any investment available within a plan, please take professional advice.
Tax rates and reliefs change from time to time and may affect the value of your investment Polar Capital Technology Trust plc is a public listed company on the London Stock Exchange Premium Market section and complies with the UK Listing Authoritys Rules.
It is not authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Boiler Room Scams We are aware that shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments or offering to act on the shareholders behalf on the payment of a retainer or similar in a spurious corporate event.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
The Financial Conduct Authority FCA estimates that share fraud costs around 200m a year through high-pressure techniques that persuade investors to enter transactions involving shares.
If you have been contacted by an unauthorised firm regarding your shares the FCA would like to hear from you.
You can report an unauthorised firm using the FCA helpline on 0845 606 1234 or 0800 111 6768 or by visiting their website, which also has other useful information, at www.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation If the calls persist, hang up Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 114 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Details of any share dealing facilities that the company endorses will be included in company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FCA website.
Forward Looking Statements Certain statements included in this annual report and financial statements contain forward-looking information concerning the Companys strategy, operations, financial performance or condition, outlook, growth opportunities or circumstances in the countries, sectors or markets in which the Company operates.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve uncertainty because they depend on future circumstances, and relate to events, not all of which are within the Companys control or can be predicted by the Company.
Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, no assurance can be given that such expectations will prove to have been correct.
Actual results could differ materially from those set out in the forwardlooking statements.
For a detailed analysis of the factors that may affect our business, financial performance or results of operations, we urge you to look at the principal risks and uncertainties included in the Business Review on pages 46 to 55 of this annual report.
No part of these results constitutes, or shall be taken to constitute, an invitation or inducement to invest in Polar Capital Technology Trust plc or any other entity, and must not be relied upon in any way in connection with any investment decision.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forwardlooking statements.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013115
