Financial statements Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Statement of accounting policies General information The company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The address of its registered office is No.
The company is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted for use in the European Union EU, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of derivative financial instruments to fair value.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are required to use certain critical accounting estimates and are required to exercise judgement in the application of the group and companys accounting policies.
The group and companys principal accounting policies under IFRS, which have been consistently applied to all the years presented unless otherwise stated, are set out below: a New and amended standards adopted by the group and company: IAS 19, Employee Benefits was amended in June 2011 and was applicable from 1 January 2013 with retrospective application required.
The changes to the standard require the group and company to calculate its annual pension charge as the current service cost plus or minus the discount rate applied to the net pension asset.
This replaces the previous calculation which was the current service cost plus the expected return on plan assets less the unwinding of the discount rate on liabilities.
In effect, this requires the group and company to replace its long-term rate of return on assets assumption with its discount rate thereby reducing the assumed return on assets and increasing the pension charge.
The retrospective application results in an increase in administrative costs and, therefore, a reduction in earnings with a corresponding adjustment to the actuarial movement on the retirement benefit asset taken through the statement of comprehensive income.
There is, therefore, no balance sheet impact.
The impact of the retrospective application of the revised IAS 19 is set out in note 18.
In addition, the group has undertaken a full review of the treatment of retirement benefits within the company and its subsidiaries.
This has resulted in a change in the treatment of the allocation of the groups retirement benefit asset between the company and its subsidiaries resulting in the full group retirement benefit asset being recognised within the company.
Further explanation is set out in note 18.
The change in treatment has resulted in the 2012 comparatives of the company being restated.
As the change in treatment is not the result of the adoption of a new accounting standard, 2011 restated comparatives have also been included in the balance sheet, the statement of changes in shareholders equity and the retirement benefit asset and deferred tax notes, as these are the areas of the financial statements affected by the change in treatment.
IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, builds on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor in whether an entity should be included within the groups consolidated financial statements.
The standard provides additional guidance to assist in the determination of control where this is difficult to assess.
IFRS 10 has been adopted from its effective date of 1 January 2013.
As all of the subsidiaries within the group are wholly-owned, there has been no impact on the groups consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 12, Disclosures of interests in other entities, includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interest in other entities, including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles.
IFRS 12 has been adopted from its effective date of 1 January 2013.
IFRS 13, Fair value measurement, aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across all IFRS.
The requirements do not extend the use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it should be applied where its use is already required or permitted by other standards.
IFRS 13 has been adopted from its effective date of 1 January 2013.
There has been no material impact on the measurement of fair values within the group or company.
b New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the financial year beginning 1 January 2013 and not early adopted: Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities amendments to IAS 32 clarifies the requirements for offsetting financial instruments.
The amendments address inconsistencies in current practice when applying the offsetting criteria in IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation.
The amendments clarify the meaning of currently has a legally enforceable right of set-off and that some gross settlement systems may be considered equivalent to a net settlement.
The amendment will be adopted from its effective date of 1 January 2014 and will not have a material impact on the group or company.
Recoverable amount disclosures amendments to IAS 36 May 2013 are narrow-scope amendments to IAS 36 Impairment of assets.
The amendment addresses the disclosure of information about the recoverable amount of impaired assets if that amount is based on fair value less costs of disposal.
138 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Financial statements Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Basis of preparation continued Novation of derivatives and continuation of hedge accounting amendments to IAS 39 are narrow-scope amendments which allow hedge accounting to continue in a situation where a derivative financial instrument, which has been designated as a hedging instrument, is novated to effect clearing with a central counterparty as a result of laws or regulation, if specific conditions are met.
The amendment will be adopted from its effective date of 1 January 2014 and is not expected to have a material impact on the group or company.
Defined benefit plans: Employee contributions amendments to IAS 19 Nov 2013 simplifies the accounting for contributions that are independent of the number of years of employee service e. g. employee contributions that are calculated according to a fixed percentage of salary.
The amendment is mandatory for accounting periods starting on or after 1 July 2014.
The amendment will be adopted from 1 January 2015, subject to endorsement by the EU, and is not expected to have a material impact on the group or company.
IFRS 9, Financial instruments, addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
IFRS 9 was originally issued in November 2009, reissued in October 2010, and then amended in November 2013.
The current version of IFRS 9 does not include a mandatory effective date.
This will be added when all phases of the project are complete and a final version of IFRS 9 is issued.
The group and company continues to assess the updates to the project and will adopt the standard in line with the mandatory effective date when determined, subject to endorsement by the EU.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, balance sheet, statement of changes in shareholders equity, statement of cash flows and notes to the financial statements include the financial statements of the company and all of its subsidiary undertakings drawn up from the date control passes to the group until the date control ceases.
Control is achieved when the group: has the power over the investee: is exposed, or has rights, to variable return from its involvement with the investee: and has the ability to use its power to affect returns.
All intra-group transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
The accounting policies of subsidiaries are consistent with the accounting policies of the group.
Revenue Revenue comprises interest and fee income earned by Vanquis Bank and interest income earned by the Consumer Credit Division CCD.
Revenue excludes value added tax and intra-group transactions.
Within Vanquis Bank, interest is calculated on credit card advances to customers using the effective interest rate on the daily balance outstanding.
Annual fees charged to customers credit card accounts are recognised as part of the effective interest rate.
Penalty charges and other fees are recognised at the time the charges are made to customers on the basis that performance is complete.
Within CCD, revenue on customer receivables is recognised using an effective interest rate.
The effective interest rate is calculated using estimated cash flows, being contractual payments adjusted for the impact of customers repaying early but excluding the anticipated impact of customers paying late or not paying at all.
Directly attributable incremental issue costs are also taken into account in calculating the effective interest rate.
Interest income continues to be accrued on impaired receivables using the original effective interest rate applied to the loans carrying value.
Finance costs Finance costs principally comprise the interest on bank and other borrowings including retail deposits and, for the company, on intra-group loan arrangements, and are recognised on an effective interest rate basis.
Finance costs also include the fair value movement on those derivative financial instruments held for hedging purposes which do not qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39. Dividend income Dividend income is recognised in the income statement when the companys right to receive payment is established.
139 Financial statements Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Statement of accounting policies continued Goodwill All acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.
Goodwill is an intangible asset and is measured as the excess of the fair value of the consideration over the fair value of the acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition.
Gains and losses on the disposal of a subsidiary include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the subsidiary sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purposes of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cashgenerating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment is tested by comparing the carrying value of the asset to the discounted expected future cash flows from the relevant cash-generating unit.
Expected future cash flows are derived from the groups latest budget projections and the discount rate is based on the groups weighted average cost of capital at the balance sheet date.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 January 1998 was eliminated against shareholders funds under UK GAAP and was not reinstated on transition to IFRS.
On disposal of a business, any such goodwill relating to the business will not be taken into account in determining the profit or loss on disposal.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets, which comprise stand-alone computer software and computer software development costs, represent the costs incurred to acquire or develop the specific software and bring it into use.
These are valued at cost less subsequent amortisation.
Directly attributable costs associated with the development of software that will generate future economic benefits are capitalised as an intangible asset.
Directly attributable costs include the cost of software development employees and an appropriate portion of relevant directly attributable overheads.
Computer software is amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful economic life which is generally estimated to be between five and 10 years.
The residual values and economic lives of intangible assets are reviewed by management at each balance sheet date.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement as part of administrative costs.
Foreign currency translation Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the subsidiary operates the functional currency.
The groups subsidiaries primarily operate in the UK and Republic of Ireland, with a pilot credit card operation in Poland.
The consolidated and company financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the companys functional and presentational currency.
Transactions that are not denominated in the groups functional currency are recorded at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Differences arising on translation are charged or credited to the income statement, except when deferred in equity as effective cash flow hedges.
If a foreign operation were to be disposed of, the cumulative amount of the differences arising on translation recognised in other comprehensive income would be recognised in the income statement when the gain or loss on disposal is recognised.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment.
Impairment is calculated by comparing the carrying value of the investment to the higher of the net asset value of the relevant subsidiary and its discounted expected future cash flows.
Leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
The leases entered into by the group and company are solely operating leases.
Costs in respect of operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
140 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Financial statements Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Amounts receivable from customers Customer receivables are initially recorded at the amount advanced to the customer plus directly attributable issue costs.
Subsequently, receivables are increased by revenue and reduced by cash collections and any deduction for impairment.
The group assesses whether there is objective evidence that customer receivables are impaired at each balance sheet date.
The principal criterion for determining whether there is objective evidence of impairment is delinquency in contractual payments.
Within Vanquis Bank, where repayments are typically made monthly, customer balances are deemed to be impaired when one monthly contractual payment is missed.
Impairment is calculated as the difference between the carrying value of receivables and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Estimated future cash flows are based on the historical performance of customer balances falling into different arrears stages and are regularly reassessed.
Separate provisions are raised where forbearance is provided to the customer and alternative payment arrangements are established.
Accounts under payment arrangements are separately identified according to the type of payment arrangement.
The carrying value of receivables under each type of payment arrangement is calculated using historical cash flows to predict future expected cash flows which are discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Within the weekly home credit business of CCD, objective evidence of impairment is based on the payment performance of loans in the previous 12 weeks as this is considered to be the most appropriate indicator of credit quality.
Loans are deemed to be impaired when the cumulative amount of two or more contractual weekly payments have been missed in the previous 12-week period since only at this point do the expected future cash flows from loans deteriorate significantly.
Loans with one missed weekly payment over the previous 12-week period are not deemed to be impaired.
The amount of impairment loss is calculated on a portfolio basis by reference to arrears stages and is measured as the difference between the carrying value of the loans and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Subsequent cash flows are regularly compared to estimated cash flows to ensure that the estimates are sufficiently accurate for impairment provisioning purposes.
In Vanquis Bank, impairment is recorded through the use of an allowance account whilst in CCD impairment charges are deducted directly from the carrying value of receivables.
Impairment is charged to the income statement as part of operating costs.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment, except for land, which is shown at cost less impairment.
Cost represents invoiced cost plus any other costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
Depreciation is calculated to write down assets to their estimated realisable values over their useful economic lives.
The following principal bases are used: % Method Land Nil 1 Freehold and long leasehold buildings 2 Straight line 2 Short leasehold buildings Over the lease period Straight line 1 Equipment including computer hardware 10 to 33 Straight line 3 Motor vehicles 25 Reducing balance The residual values and useful economic lives of all assets are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
All items of property, plant and equipment, other than land, are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Land is subject to an annual impairment test.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets value in use or its fair value less costs to sell.
Gains and losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing any proceeds with the carrying value of the asset and are recognised within administrative costs in the income statement.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement as part of administrative costs.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand which includes amounts invested in money market funds and UK government gilts held in accordance with the PRAs liquidity regime.
Bank overdrafts are presented in current liabilities to the extent that there is no right of offset with cash balances.
141 Financial statements Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Statement of accounting policies continued Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, being issue proceeds less any transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between proceeds less transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the expected life of the borrowings using the effective interest rate.
Where borrowings are the subject of a fair value hedge, changes in the fair value of the borrowing that are attributable to the hedged risk are recognised in the income statement and a corresponding adjustment made to the carrying value of borrowings.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the group or company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Derivative financial instruments The group and company use derivative financial instruments, principally interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and forward contracts, to manage the interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk arising from the groups underlying business operations.
No transactions of a speculative nature are undertaken.
All derivative financial instruments are assessed against the hedge accounting criteria set out in IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement.
Derivative financial instruments that meet the hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39 are accordingly designated as either: hedges of the fair value of recognised assets, liabilities or firm commitments fair value hedges : hedges of highly probable forecast transactions cash flow hedges : or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
The relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items is documented at the inception of a transaction, as well as the risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The assessment of whether the derivative financial instruments used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items is documented, both at the hedge inception and on an ongoing basis.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at their fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at each reporting date to their fair value.
Where derivative financial instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting, movements in the fair value are recognised immediately within the income statement.
Where hedge accounting criteria have been met, the resultant gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised as follows: Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement as part of finance costs, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in the hedging reserve within equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement as part of finance costs.
Amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement when the income or expense on the hedged item is recognised in the income statement.
Hedge accounting for both fair value and cash flow hedges is discontinued when: it is evident from testing that a derivative financial instrument is not, or has ceased to be, highly effective as a hedge: or the derivative financial instrument expires, or is sold, terminated or exercised: or the underlying hedged item matures or is sold or repaid.
When a cash flow hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a cash flow hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time is immediately transferred to the income statement.
The fair values of various derivative financial instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 16.
Movements on the hedging reserve in shareholders equity are shown in note 25.
The full fair value of a derivative financial instrument is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months from the balance sheet date and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months from the balance sheet date.
Net investment hedges The group uses a combination of borrowings denominated in overseas currencies and foreign currency forward contracts as a hedge against the translation exposure on the parents net investment in overseas branches.
Where the hedge is fully effective at hedging the variability in the net assets of those operations and or the parents investment caused by changes in exchange rates, the changes in value of the borrowings and forward contracts are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income and accumulated in the hedging reserve.
When a hedge is no longer deemed to be highly effective, the ineffective part of any change in value caused by changes in exchange rates is recognised in the income statement with previous gains or losses deferred within equity being recycled to the income statement.
142 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Financial statements Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Provisions Provisions are recognised when the group or company has a present obligation as a result of a past event, which is reliably measurable and when it is probable that the group or company will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Dividends paid Dividend distributions to the companys shareholders are recognised in the group and companys financial statements as follows: Final dividend: when approved by the companys shareholders at the annual general meeting.
Interim dividend: when paid by the company.
Retirement benefits Defined benefit pension schemes The charge in the income statement in respect of defined benefit pension schemes comprises the actuarially assessed current service cost of working employees, together with the interest on pension liabilities offset by the interest on pension scheme assets.
All charges are recognised within administrative costs in the income statement.
The retirement benefit asset recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension schemes is the fair value of the schemes assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, together with adjustments for unrecognised past service costs.
A retirement benefit asset is recognised to the extent that the group and company have an unconditional right to a refund of the asset or if it will be recovered in future years as a result of reduced contributions to the pension scheme.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement, unless changes to the pension schemes are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Defined contribution pension schemes Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the income statement on an accruals basis.
Share-based payments The company grants options under employee savings-related share option schemes typically referred to as Save As You Earn schemes SAYE and makes awards under the Performance Share Plan PSP and the Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS.
All of the schemes are equity-settled.
The cost of providing options and awards to group and company employees is charged to the income statement of the group and company over the vesting period of the related options and awards.
The corresponding credit is made to a share-based payment reserve within equity.
The grant by the company of options and awards over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings is treated as an investment in the companys financial statements.
The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the fair value at the date of grant, is recognised over the vesting period as an increase in investments in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to the share-based payment reserve within equity.
The cost of options and awards is based on their fair value.
For PSP schemes, the performance conditions are based on earnings per share EPS.
Accordingly, the fair value of options and awards is determined using a binomial option pricing model which is a suitable model for valuing options with internal related targets such as EPS.
A binomial model is also used for calculating the fair value of SAYE options which have no performance conditions attached.
The value of the charge is adjusted at each balance sheet date to reflect lapses and expected or actual levels of vesting, with a corresponding adjustment to the share-based payment reserve.
143 Financial statements Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Statement of accounting policies continued Share-based payments continued For LTIS schemes, performance conditions are based on either divisional profit before tax, EPS or TSR targets.
Accordingly, the fair value of awards is determined using a combination of the binomial and Monte Carlo option pricing models.
The value of the charge is adjusted at each balance sheet date to reflect lapses.
Where the Monte Carlo option pricing model is used to determine fair value, no adjustment is made to reflect expected or actual levels of vesting as the probability of the awards vesting is taken into account in the initial calculation of the fair value of the awards.
A transfer is made from the share-based payment reserve to retained earnings when options and awards vest or lapse.
In respect of the SAYE options, the proceeds received, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital and share premium when the options are exercised or lapse.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any group company purchases the companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs, is included within a treasury shares reserve and deducted from equity until the shares are no longer held by a group company or cancelled.
Where such shares are reissued outside of the group, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, is included within the treasury shares reserve.
Taxation The tax charge represents the sum of current and deferred tax.
Current tax is calculated based on taxable profit for the year using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax is also provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the company and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are items that are unusual because of their size, nature or incidence and which the directors consider should be disclosed separately to enable a full understanding of the groups results.
Supplementary information In order to assist shareholders and other users of the groups financial statements, supplementary commentary has been provided within the groups financial statements within highlighted boxes.
This supplementary information does not form part of the statutory, audited financial statements.
144 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Financial statements Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Key assumptions and estimates In applying the accounting policies set out above, the group and company make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as follows: Amounts receivable from customers 1,606.6m The group reviews its portfolio of loans and receivables for impairment at each balance sheet date.
For the purposes of assessing the impairment of customer loans and receivables, customers are categorised into arrears stages as this is considered to be the most reliable indication of future payment performance.
The group makes judgements to determine whether there is objective evidence which indicates that there has been an adverse effect on expected future cash flows.
Customer accounts in Vanquis Bank are deemed to be impaired when one contractual monthly payment has been missed.
In the weekly home credit business, receivables are deemed to be impaired when the cumulative amount of two or more contractual weekly payments have been missed in the previous 12 weeks, since only at this point do the expected future cash flows from loans deteriorate significantly.
The level of impairment in both businesses is calculated using models which use historical payment performance to generate the estimated amount and timing of future cash flows from each arrears stage, and are regularly tested using subsequent cash collections to ensure they retain sufficient accuracy.
The impairment models are regularly reviewed to take account of the current economic environment, product mix and recent customer payment performance.
However, on the basis that the payment performance of customers could be different from the assumptions used in estimating future cash flows, a material adjustment to the carrying value of amounts receivable from customers may be required.
To the extent that the net present value of estimated future cash flows differs by 1%, it is estimated that the amounts receivable from customers would be approximately 16m 2012: 15m higher lower.
Tax current tax liabilities 36.3m, deferred tax assets 3.5m The tax treatment of certain items cannot be determined precisely until tax audits or enquiries have been completed by the tax authorities.
In some instances, this can be years after the item has first been reflected in the financial statements.
The group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit and enquiry issues based on an assessment of the probability of such liabilities falling due.
If the outcome of such audits is that the final liability is different from the amount originally estimated, such differences will be recognised in the period in which the tax audit or enquiry is concluded.
Any differences may necessitate a material adjustment to the level of tax balances held in the balance sheet.
If the probability assessment of uncertain tax liabilities was adjusted by 5%, it is estimated that the groups tax liabilities would be 1.0m 2012: 0.9m higher lower.
Retirement benefit asset 29.2m The valuation of the retirement benefit asset is dependent upon a series of assumptions: the key assumptions being mortality rates, the discount rate applied to liabilities and inflation rates.
Mortality estimates are based on standard mortality tables, adjusted where appropriate to reflect the groups own expected experience.
Discount rates are based on the market yields of high quality corporate bonds which have terms closely linked with the estimated term of the retirement benefit obligation.
Inflation assumptions reflect long-term market expectations for retail price inflation.
Sensitivity analysis of the groups main assumptions is set out in note 18.
