Additional information Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 367 Glossary AER Bulk annuity Deferred acquisition costs or DAC Actual Exchange Rates are actual historical A bulk annuity, sometimes referred to as a Acquisition costs are expenses of an insurer exchange rates for the specific accounting bulk purchase annuity, is a contract which are incurred in connection with the period, being the average rates over the between a defined benefit pension scheme acquisition of new insurance contracts or period for the income statement and the and an insurance company, whereby an the renewal of existing insurance policies.
closing rates for the balance sheet at the insurance company insures some or all of They include commissions and other balance sheet date.
the liabilities of the pension scheme.
variable sales inducements and the direct costs of issuing the policy, such as Annual premium equivalent or APE Cash surrender value underwriting and other policy issue A measure of new business activity that is The amount of cash available to a policy expenses.
Typically, under IFRS, an element calculated as the sum of annualised regular holder on the surrender of or withdrawal of acquisition costs are deferred ie not premiums from new business plus from a life insurance policy or annuity expensed in the year incurred, and instead 10 per cent of single premiums on new contract.
amortised in the income statement in line business written during the period.
with the emergence of surpluses on the CER related contracts.
Asset backed security Constant Exchange Rate Prudential plc A security whose value and income reports its results at both actual exchange Deferred annuities payments are derived from and collateralised rates AER to reflect actual results and also Annuities or pensions due to be paid from or backed by a specified pool of constant exchange rates CER so as to a future date or when the policyholder underlying assets.
The pool of assets is eliminate the impact from exchange reaches a specified age.
typically a group of small and illiquid assets translation.
CER results are calculated by that are unable to be sold individually.
translating prior year results using current Discretionary participation features period foreign currency exchange rates ie or DPF Available-for-sale AFS current period average rates for the income A contractual right to receive, as a Securities that have been acquired neither statements and current period closing rate supplement to guaranteed benefits, for short-term sale nor to be held to for the balance sheet.
AFS securities are measured at That are likely to be a significant portion fair value on the statement of financial Closed-book life insurance business of the total contractual benefits: position with unrealised gains and losses A closed book is essentially a group of being booked in Other Comprehensive insurance policies that are no longer sold, Whose amount or timing is Income instead of the income statement.
but are still featured on the books of a life contractually at the discretion of the insurer as a premium-paying policy.
The issuer: and Back book of business insurance company has closed the books That are contractually based on asset, The insurance policies sold in past periods on new sales of these products which will fund, company or other entity that are still in-force and hence are still remain in run-off until the policies expire performance.
recorded on the insurers balance sheet.
and all claims are settled.
Dividend cover Bonuses Core structural borrowings Dividend cover is calculated as operating Bonuses refer to the non-guaranteed Borrowings which Prudential considers to profit after tax on an IFRS basis, divided by benefit added to participating life insurance form part of its core capital structure and the current year interim dividend plus the policies and are the way in which exclude operational borrowings.
policyholders receive their share of the profits of the policies.
There are normally Credit risk Endowment product two types of bonus: The risk of loss if another party fails to An ordinary individual life insurance meet its obligations, or fails to do so in a Regular bonus expected to be added product that provides the insured party timely fashion.
every year during the term of the policy.
with various guaranteed benefits if it It is not guaranteed that a regular bonus survives specific maturity dates or periods Currency risk will be added each year, but once it is stated in the policy.
Upon the death of the The risk that asset or liability values, cash added, it cannot be reversed, also insured party within the coverage period, a flows, income or expenses will be affected known as annual or reversionary bonus: designated beneficiary receives the face by changes in exchange rates.
Also and value of the policy.
referred to as foreign exchange risk.
Final bonus an additional bonus European Embedded Value or EEV expected to be paid when policyholders Financial results that are prepared on a take money from the policies.
If supplementary basis to the Groups investment return has been low over consolidated IFRS results and which are the lifetime of the policy, a final bonus prepared in accordance with a set of may not be paid.
Final bonuses may Principles issued by the Chief Financial vary and are not guaranteed.
Officers Forum of European Insurance Companies in May 2004 and expanded by the Additional Guidance of EEV Disclosures published in October 2005.
The principles are designed to capture the value of the new business sold in the period and of the business in force.
368 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Additional information Glossary Glossary continued Fixed annuities Guaranteed minimum accumulation Inherited estate Fixed annuity contracts written in the US benefit GMAB US For life insurance proprietary companies, which allow for tax-deferred accumulation A guarantee that ensures that the contract surplus capital available on top of what is of funds, are used for asset accumulation in value of a variable annuity contract will be necessary to cover policyholders retirement planning and for providing at least equal to a certain minimum amount reasonable expectations.
An inherited income in retirement and offer flexible after a specified number of years.
orphan estate is effectively surplus capital pay-out options.
The contract holder pays on a realistic basis built over time and not the insurer a premium, which is credited to Guaranteed minimum death benefit allocated to policyholders or shareholders.
Periodically, GMDB US interest is credited to the contract holders The basic death benefit offered under Internal rate of return IRR account and administrative charges are variable annuity contracts, which specifies The IRR is equivalent to the discount rate deducted, as appropriate.
that if the owner dies before annuity at which the present EEV value of the income payments begin, the beneficiary post-tax cash flows expected to be earned Fixed index annuities will receive a payment equal to the greater over the life time of the business written in These are similar to fixed annuities in that of the contract value or purchase payments shareholder-backed life funds is equal to the contract holder pays the insurer a less withdrawals.
the total invested capital to support the premium, which is credited to the contract writing of the business.
The capital holders account and, periodically, interest Guaranteed minimum income included in the calculation of the IRR is is credited to the contract holders account benefit GMIB US equal to the amount required to pay and administrative charges are deducted, A guarantee that ensures, under certain acquisition costs and set up reserves less as appropriate.
An annual minimum conditions, that the owner may annuitise premiums received, plus encumbered interest rate may be guaranteed, although the variable annuity contract based on the capital.
The impact of the time value of actual interest credited may be higher greater of a the actual account value or b options and guarantees is included in and is linked to an equity index over its a pay-out base equal to premiums credited the calculation.
with some interest rate, or the maximum anniversary value of the account prior Internal vesting Funds under management to annuitisation.
Internal vestings are proceeds from a These comprise funds of the Group held Prudential policy which the policyholder in the statement of financial position and Guaranteed minimum withdrawal has decided to reinvest in a Prudential external funds that are managed by benefit GMWB US annuity product.
A guarantee in a variable annuity that promises that the owner may make annual International Financial Reporting Group free surplus withdrawals of a defined amount for the life Standards IFRS Group free surplus at the end of the period of the owner or until the total guaranteed Accounting standards that all publicly listed comprises free surplus for the insurance amount is recovered, regardless of market groups in the European Union are required businesses, representing the excess of performance or the actual account balance.
to apply in preparing consolidated financial the net worth over the required capital statements.
included in the EEV results, and IFRS net Health and protection assets for the asset management These comprise health and personal Investment grade businesses excluding goodwill.
The free accident insurance products, which provide Investments rated BBBor above for S&P, surplus generated during the period morbidity or sickness benefits and include Baa3 or above for Moodys.
Generally they comprises the movement in this balance health, disability, critical illness and accident are bonds that are judged by the rating excluding foreign exchange, capital, and coverage.
Health and protection products agency as likely enough to meet payment other reserve movements.
Specifically, it are sold both as standalone policies and as obligations that banks are allowed to includes amounts maturing from the in-force riders that can be attached to life insurance invest in them.
operations during the period less the products.
Health and Protection riders are investment in new business, the effect of presented together with ordinary individual Investment-linked products or market movements and other one-off items.
life insurance products for purposes of contracts disclosure of financial information.
Insurance products where the surrender Guaranteed annuities value of the policy is linked to the value of Policies that pay out a fixed amount of IGD surplus underlying investments such as collective benefit for a defined period.
The Prudential Groups solvency surplus investment schemes, internal investment measured in accordance with the EU pools or other property or fluctuations in Guaranteed investment contract Insurance Groups Directive.
the value of underlying investment or GIC US indices.
Investment risk associated with An investment contract between an Immediate annuity the product is usually borne by the insurance company and an institutional An annuity in which payments to the policyholder.
Insurance coverage, investor, which provides a stated rate of annuitant or beneficiary start at once upon investment and administration services return on deposits over a specified period establishment of the annuity plan or are provided for which the charges are of time.
They typically provide for partial or scheme.
Such annuities are almost always deducted from the investment fund assets.
total withdrawals at book value if needed purchased with a single lump sum payment.
Benefits payable will depend on the price for certain liquidity needs of the plan.
of the units prevailing at the time of In-force surrender, death or the maturity of the An insurance policy or contract reflected product, subject to surrender charges.
on records that has not expired, matured or These are also referred to as unit linked otherwise been surrendered or terminated.
products or unit linked contracts.
Additional information Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 369 Liquidity coverage ratio Non-participating business Present value of new business Prudential calculates this as assets and A life insurance policy where the premiums or PVNBP resources available to us that are readily policyholder is not entitled to a share of the The present value of new business convertible to cash to cover corporate companys profits and surplus, but receives premiums is calculated as equalling single obligations in a prescribed stress scenario.
Also known premiums plus the present value of We calculate this ratio over a range of time as non-profit in the UK.
Examples include expected premiums of new regular horizons extending to 12 months.
pure risk policies eg fixed annuities, term premium business, allowing for lapses and insurance, critical illness and unit-linked other assumptions made in determining Liquidity premium insurance contracts.
the EEV new business contribution.
This comprises the premium that is required to compensate for the lower OEIC Open ended investment Prudential Regulation Authority or liquidity of corporate bonds relative to company PRA swaps and the mark to market risk premium A collective investment fund structured as The PRA is a UK regulatory body that is required to compensate for the a limited company in which investors can responsible for Prudential regulation and potential volatility in corporate bond buy and sell shares.
supervision of banks, building societies, spreads and hence market values at the credit unions, insurers and major time of sale.
Borrowings which arise in the normal Market value reduction MVR course of the business.
Regular premium product A reduction applied to the payment on A life insurance product with regular with-profits bonds when policyholders Participating funds periodic premium payments.
surrender in adverse market conditions.
Distinct portfolios where the policyholders have a contractual right to receive at the Rider Money Market Fund MMF discretion of the insurer additional benefits A supplemental plan that can be attached An MMF is an open-ended mutual fund based on factors such as the performance to a basic insurance policy, with payment of that invests in short-term debt securities of a pool of assets held within the fund, as a additional premium.
such as US treasury bills and commercial supplement to any guaranteed benefits.
The purpose of an MMF is to The insurer may either have discretion as to Risk margin reserve RMR charge provide investors with a safe place to invest the timing of the allocation of those An RMR is included within operating profit easily accessible cash-equivalent assets benefits to participating policyholders or based on longer-term investment returns characterised as a low-risk, low-return may have discretion as to the timing and and represents a charge for long-term investment.
the amount of the additional benefits.
For expected defaults of debt securities, Prudential the most significant participating determined by reference to the credit Mortality rate funds are with-profits funds for business quality of the portfolio.
Rate of death, varying by such parameters written in the UK, Hong Kong, Malaysia as age, gender, and health, used in pricing and Singapore.
Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund and computing liabilities for future SAIF policyholders of life and annuity products, Participating policies or participating SAIF is a ring-fenced sub-fund of the which contain mortality risks.
business Prudential Assurance Companys Contracts of insurance where the long-term fund following the acquisition of Net premiums policyholders have a contractual right to the mutually owned Scottish Amicable Life Life insurance premiums, net of receive, at the discretion of the insurer, Assurance Society in 1997.
The fund is reinsurance ceded to third party reinsurers.
additional benefits based on factors such as solely for the benefit of policyholders of investment performance, as a supplement SAIF.
Shareholders of Prudential plc have Net worth to any guaranteed benefits.
This is also no interest in the profits of this fund Net assets for EEV reporting purposes that referred to as with-profits business.
although they are entitled to asset reflect the regulatory basis position, management fees on this business.
sometimes with adjustments to achieve Payback period consistency with the IFRS treatment of Payback period is the time in which the Separate account certain items.
initial cash outflow of investment is A separate account is a pool of investments expected to be recovered from the cash held by an insurance company not in or New business margin inflows generated by the investment.
We separate from its general account.
The The value of new business on an EEV basis measure cash outflow by our investment of returns from the separate account expressed as a percentage of the present free surplus in new business sales.
The generally accrue to the policyholder.
value of new business premiums expected payback period equals the time taken for A separate account allows an investor to to be received from the new business.
this business to generate free surplus to choose an investment category according cover this investment.
Payback periods are to his individual risk tolerance, and desire New business profit measured on an undiscounted basis.
The profits, calculated in accordance with European Embedded Value Principles, Single premiums from business sold in the financial reporting Single premium policies of insurance are period under consideration.
those that require only a single lump sum payment from the policyholder.
370 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Additional information Glossary Glossary continued Stochastic techniques Unit-linked products or unit-linked Stochastic techniques incorporate results contracts from repeated simulations using key See investment-linked products or financial parameters which are subject to contracts above.
random variations and are projected into the future.
Universal life An insurance product where the customer Subordinated debt pays flexible premiums, subject to specified A fixed interest issue or debt that ranks limits, which are accumulated in an account below other debt in order of priority for and are credited with interest at a rate repayment if the issuer is liquidated.
either set by the insurer or reflecting Holders are compensated for the added risk returns on a pool of matching assets.
The through higher rates of interest.
Under EU customer may vary the death benefit and insurance regulation, subordinated debt is the contract may permit the customer to not treated as a liability and counts towards withdraw the account balance, typically the coverage of the required minimum subject to a surrender charge.
margin of solvency, with limitations.
Variable annuity VA US Surrender An annuity whose value is determined by The termination of a life insurance policy the performance of underlying investment or annuity contract at the request of the options that frequently includes securities.
policyholder after which the policyholder A variable annuitys value is not guaranteed receives the cash surrender value, if any, and will fluctuate, depending on the value of the contract.
The holder of a variable annuity assumes the Surrender charge or surrender fee investment risk and the funds backing a The fee charged to a policyholder when a variable annuity are held in the insurance life insurance policy or annuity contract is companies separate account.
VAs are surrendered for its cash surrender similar to unit-linked annuities in the UK.
value prior to the end of the surrender charge period.
Whole of life A type of life insurance policy that provides Takaful lifetime protection: premiums must usually Insurance that is compliant with Islamic be paid for life.
The sum assured is paid out principles.
Commonly used for estate planning purposes.
Time value of options and guarantees With-profits funds The value of financial options and See participating funds above.
guarantees comprises two parts, the intrinsic value and the time value.
The Yield intrinsic value is given by a deterministic A measure of the income received from an valuation on best estimate assumptions.
investment compared to the price paid for The time value is the additional value the investment.
Normally expressed as arising from the variability of economic a percentage.
Total shareholder return TSR TSR represents the growth in the value of a share plus the value of dividends paid, assuming that the dividends are reinvested in the Companys shares on the ex-dividend date.
Unallocated surplus Unallocated surplus is recorded wholly as a liability and represents the excess of assets over policyholder liabilities for Prudentials with-profits funds.
The balance retained in the unallocated surplus represents cumulative income arising on the with-profits business that has not been allocated to policyholders or shareholders.
