22 | Capita plc Delivering sustainable, profitable growth The strength of our sales proposition is a Internal development 2.
Building result of the proactive development of the The successful integration and delivery Groups capability and scale.
This ensures of progressively larger contracts, with that we have the right resources in place capability common processes and substantial to bid for and deliver compelling, cost numbers of transferring employees, fuels effective client solutions, whether its a the growth of our operations and expands and scale single service in a specific market or a full our resources and expertise.
transformational partnership combining Across our divisions, we focus on multiple objectives and services.
developing a combination of the following We have expanded our capability and core skills and disciplines to deploy into scale over the past 30 years via two our target markets: routes: internal development and through Flexible infrastructure our acquisition strategy of acquiring small Effective people management to medium-sized businesses.
see page 24 Best use of technology Efficient processes Our internal reporting is essential to this process as it provides a forum for the leaders of our divisions and businesses to share knowledge, skills and ideas across our offering.
see page 35 Fuelling growth organically and through acquisitions Central 9 divisions: Major identifying and bidding acquisition team: sales team: for small to medium-sized identifying and securing identify and bid for opportunities, and organisations to build major new opportunities identifying acquisition capacity and skills, in new and existing targets in their and expand into markets markets new markets Robust central monitoring approvals and pricing Managed and delivered by 9 divisions with individual and shared resources, expertise and infrastructure Flexible Effective people Best use of Efficient infrastructure management technology processes see page 23 see page 24 see page 24 see page 24 Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 23 Flexible infrastructure: UK, Ireland & Channel Islands Poland leveraging our delivery network The majority of our 64,000 people are We have continued to invest in and We have c. 400 business sites, based in the UK, Ireland and the Channel broaden the services we deliver from our predominantly in the UK, with a steadily Islands.
We have 64 multi-service business central European business centre which growing network of offices across centres here.
We deliver the full life cycle we set up in Poland in 2011.
Alongside this, we have of services from front end customer fully operational and servicing a number 73 multi-service delivery centres.
management through to back office of existing Capita clients in English administration for our public and private and other core European languages.
We leverage our large scale delivery sector clients.
The 550 seat capacity centre in Krakow network which now includes centres in the is located close to the city centre and UK, the Channel Islands and Europe and India the university with access to a skilled, offshore in India, South Africa and Dubai.
Our business centres in India, where we multilingual workforce.
By offering onshore, nearshore, offshore employ c. 5,000 people, continue to play or blended service delivery options, in a South Africa an integral role in our offshore offering.
time zone that suits our clients, we can We now have six centres in Mumbai, In July 2012, we enhanced our delivery provide maximum flexibility, quality and Pune and Bangalore delivering a range offering through the acquisition of Full cost savings in our sales propositions.
of services, from simple transaction Circle, a leading contact centre solutions processing through to more complex business based in South Africa and knowledge based back office functions.
we have approximately 750 full time employees in Cape Town.
We are now providing new customer management services for a number of existing clients.
We strongly manage our supply chain across our network of delivery centres.
see page 49 Multi-service delivery centres Poland UK, Ireland & 1 centre Channel Islands 64 centres India 6 centres South Africa 1 centre Dubai 1 centre 24 | Capita plc Delivering sustainable, profitable growth Effective people management: Efficient processes: Acquisition strategy harnessing talent and leadership effective integration and transformation Small to medium-sized acquisitions Our people are critical to our success.
Our expertise in effectively integrating have always played a key role in Capitas It is vital that we have the right skills in and improving business processes is growth.
We acquire organisations which place so that we can continue to deliver a result of our extensive experience enable us to enhance our service offering high quality services for our clients and and track record of large scale service and enter and build capability in new plan for long term growth.
We use this to streamline market areas, therefore supporting future of our 64,000 staff have transferred administration and standardise and sales opportunities.
Our acquisition to the Group under TUPE Transfer of automate processes, using shared approach is underpinned by strict criteria Undertakings, Protection of Employment delivery centres and platforms where and this, together with our extensive regulations demonstrating the depth of possible.
We continually evolve our experience of integrating new companies our experience of managing complex, capability so that we can support and into the Capita model, ensures that we large-scale employee transfers.
improve all aspects of a clients back add real value for shareholders.
office administration and front office We track employee retention as one of We target businesses which: customer management.
In 2013, Build economies of scale our retention rate for senior managers We also apply and leverage our own Strengthen existing market positions across the Group divisional directors and experience as a large organisation, with Generate sustainable, quality revenues senior management teams was 98% the associated range of back office 2012: 96% and our overall employee functions, in areas such as procurement Access a new customer base retention rate was 82% 2012: 83%.
Integral to Create new market opportunities our offering is our highly efficient Succession planning is a key element of Add complementary capabilities operating and financial structure which our strategy, ensuring that we have the ensures that we contain our central appropriate resources in place to maintain overhead, helping us to remain stable leadership.
For further details on competitive while providing added value how we manage and motivate propositions.
We are able to share our our employees: knowledge relating to organisational see page 47 efficiency across market sectors allowing Best use of technology: our clients to benefit from prevailing best leveraging innovation and scale practice and innovation.
For further details on the outcomes we deliver Effective technology is an essential for our clients: component of Capitas offering and see page 28 we therefore continually develop our capability and service offering both internally, through selective acquisition and by establishing niche technology partnerships.
To provide maximum flexibility when bidding for new contracts, we have the capability to work with, and enhance, a clients existing technical platforms or we can create entirely new, bespoke systems depending on the desired outcomes.
Wherever possible, we migrate and integrate systems onto shared platforms to optimise our infrastructure.
Our IT services business provides a full range of services from off-the-shelf products to full service, onsite solutions for both external clients and other Capita businesses and contracts.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 25 2013 acquisitions Our 150m investment in eight A defined process acquisitions in the justice and secure In 2013, we acquired 13 businesses Potential acquisitions are identified and 1 services area has created a business worth a total of 271m, see table brought to the Group by employees in generating annual revenue of 411m in below for further details.
Over the last our businesses, external consultants or 2013 and capable of supporting major three years, we have made a number through a direct approach and all deals are new contract wins, for example, the of acquisitions which have guaranteed assessed, priced and agreed by the Board.
electronic monitoring contract with positive investment returns through Stringent due diligence, before and after the Ministry of Justice.
delivering significant organic growth, not acquisition, is undertaken at both Group only within the existing business but also Our acquisition pipeline contains a and business level enabling us to achieve playing key roles in enabling us to win number of interesting opportunities clear targets for growth, integration new major contracts.
and we anticipate maintaining total benefits and profit.
To stimulate growth acquisition spend of 200m to 250m per The combination of our existing customer and ensure that we can negotiate a annum going forward.
With an increased management expertise with the purchase sensible purchase price and terms, we level of organic growth, we therefore of Ventura and Vertex private sector in generally seek target acquisitions that: expect our acquisition activity to play a 2011 for a total of 105m, has resulted in have operations and customers proportionately smaller part in our overall Capita securing five new major contracts principally in the UK and or Europe revenue growth in future years.
in the last 18 months including the 1.2bn fit with our strategy and core partnership with O2.
competencies generate sustainable, quality revenues can be secured for an attractive price are privately owned preferably not in an auction, as we aim to acquire without competition.
Acquisitions Creating growth through 13 acquisitions in 2013 Capabilities Acquisition Rationale Division Value m G2G3 Provider of immersion and simulation-based training for Justice & 3.5 10.5 Analytics & industry and the police and emergency services Secure Services gamification Euristix Provider of data analytics and risk management Customer 9.0 3.0 Management & International Blue Sky Provides learning and development solutions for Workplace 7.2 4.8 Change executive level, field-based and contact centre employees Services management KnowledgePool Provider of learning managed services, including supplier & learning and 24.5 management, training and consultancy development Creating Careers Provider of accredited online qualifications for the further 24.0 6.0 education and secondary sectors Write Research Provider of research and insight-led resourcing 4.0 2.0 MLS Provider of library and resource management systems to Professional IT & software 16.5 4.0 the UK education sector Services Northgate Provides cloud-based, infrastructure and specialist IT Services 65.0 managed services to public, private and third sectors STL Provider of software and ICT to the criminal justice system Justice & 6.1 Secure Services Parking Eye Provider of technology-based car parking services 57.5 iQor UK now Provider of outsourced debt collection services to public Customer Debt management 42.0 branded Akinika and private sectors Management & International Cymbio Specialist consultancy supporting the NHS Health & 7.0 3.75 Specialist Wellbeing consultancy Contact Associates Provider of a nationwide assessment service enabling 4.5 0.5 disabled students to access specialist support Value in brackets represents maximum contingent consideration.
1 As previously announced and excludes investment in Axelos, Entrust and Fire Service College public sector subsidiary partnerships.
26 | Capita plc Delivering sustainable, profitable growth Robust due diligence Revenue in the first 12 months of 2013 disposals ownership by Capita following acquisition We have substantial experience of If an area of the business consistently is reported as acquired growth.
Post this successfully integrating acquired underperforms or is no longer considered period revenue is reported within businesses and contracts into the Group integral to the Group, we will undertake organic growth.
and achieving synergies with our existing a detailed review and dispose or close operations.
Our values and key processes the business area as appropriate.
In 2013, We are committed to generating returns are communicated and implemented right we completed the disposal of some of for shareholders and apply a target of from the start of the integration process.
our insurance distribution assets for an achieving a 15% post tax return after A dedicated project team manages the undisclosed sum and decided to close our 12 months integration into the Group and transition bringing financial procedures, SIP Self Invested Pensions administration the majority of our acquisitions achieve or information, ICT, HR, legal, compliance business based in Salisbury, see note 4 on exceed this target return.
and marketing quickly into line with page 105 for further details.
Acquiring only small to medium-sized businesses enables us to integrate them into our existing business infrastructure efficiently and allows us to generate value faster.
Robust acquisition process External Divisional Direct intermediaries ideas approaches introductions Central acquisition team Detailed due diligence inc. finance, legal, HR, risk etc undertaken centrally and with receiving division Group Board sign-off Divisional integration process commences Continuous performance monitoring as part of MOB process
