Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 27 Responsive service design is central to our We design and create a service model 3.
Our pool of talented which will achieve the specific outcomes specialists use their skills and experience established during this initial research to develop new and innovative ways of phase.
We also take responsibility innovative transforming and delivering services, for delivering this new service model tailored for each individual contract.
and running the services under long solutions We design services which are forwardterm contracts, which means that the looking and flexible to changing market models we create are grounded in real and social conditions, helping us to add delivery experience.
real value to our clients and become an During the bid process we identify the integral part of their operating models.
operational teams who will be responsible for the contract and transition to ensure Our approach: that we have the appropriate skills and Listen, create, deliver resources in place to deliver against the We maintain open and detailed agreed plans, whether its an existing discussions with our clients throughout service or a new greenfield contract.
the bid process, which allow us to develop We pull together expertise from across an in-depth understanding of their Capitas divisions with skills covering: HR business and challenges.
We interact with and transition, process re-engineering, millions of people in the UK every year operational delivery and technology.
and therefore have a deep insight into Where appropriate, we also work customer and citizen behaviour.
We have with partners, small to medium-sized enhanced this insight through investment companies SMEs and third-sector in expertise and tools in behavioural organisations to deliver the agreed goals.
science, analytics, user-centred service design, multi-channel integration and To maintain a positive and engaging responsive digital services.
relationship with our clients, we continually track performance over time Understanding clients goals to ensure that we are improving and and end user behaviour adding value over the life of the contract.
Whether we are bidding for a government or private sector contract, we firstly seek to understand the current and future requirements of the client and vitally, the end-user of the service.
The ways in which citizens and customers access and interact with services, how they make contact, payments and purchases, is a significant determinant of cost, revenue and loyalty for public and private sector organisations.
We aim to track and positively influence these behaviours to improve outcomes for both the end users of the service and our clients.
28 | Capita plc Delivering sustainable, profitable growth Increased efficiency and We improve administration by switching Delivering valued outcomes reduced operating costs to more efficient technology, leveraging We tailor our service models to fit the Groups existing technical and With all our major BPM contracts, we with the specific outcomes required service delivery platforms and taking use our scale and expertise to create by our clients, which will typically be out duplicate processes and functions.
efficient operating models which optimise one or a combination of the outcomes Where appropriate, we have the ability to resources and support the long term described below: migrate and integrate common systems organisational aims of our clients.
and to rationalise premises, delivering significant cost savings to our clients.
We also use our extensive scale to procure services cost effectively and share these cost benefits with our clients.
Improved customer Designing and delivering change service and retention We support our public and private sector clients in improving the quality of customer services at lower cost providing citizens and customers with simple, easy to use, personalised and engaging services.
Listen Create We help organisations in the private sector to drive up customer retention and increase sales with a range of comprehensive analytics that provide a detailed insight into the behaviour and motivation of their end-users.
We also use these tools to support our public sector Identifying what the Adopting user-centred clients to effectively manage contact end-customer wants and techniques to specify the Deliver with citizens, helping them to direct aligning with clients' right service processes, objectives communications and resources to the right areas and protect customer contact frontline services.
improvements It is becoming increasingly important for our commercial and government clients to provide sophisticated multi-channel Delivering the change through contact points and we continually evolve rapid, agile and low-risk methods, our capability to ensure that we have the across an integrated operational platform across multiple depth of functions necessary to meet traditional and digital channels their requirements.
Minute-to-minute Week-to-week Quarter-to-quarter Operational delivery Integrated improvement Partnering for the future Live tailoring of multi-channel Continual analysis of Monitoring changes in services to deliver the right operational data to identify markets, technology and contact at the right time, points of failure, and demographics to identify based on everything we know application of iterative, opportunities for step change about the customer, in user-centred, multidisciplinary innovation, and working that instant.
methods to deliver daily with partners to improvements.
Achieving positive outcomes Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 29 Flexible delivery New insight and analytics tools enable the Revenue growth personalisation of each individual contact, We offer clients onshore, nearshore, We are increasingly creating partnership not only to improve engagement, but offshore or blended delivery options, over delivery models where there is a shared also to target up-sell and cross-sell a time frame that suits their organisational growth objective with our clients.
In the opportunities for private sector clients and objectives, providing maximum service public sector, this involves supporting identify unnecessary contact for public flexibility, quality and cost savings.
clients in commercialising existing assets sector clients.
We look to proactively For some clients, a long term defined in order to deliver a growing revenue tackle the causes of customer frustration contract and cost profile is important stream which benefits both parties.
and preventable and costly customer to support their long term strategy.
We were selected by the Cabinet Office to contact, helping to direct resources to the Other clients, who face faster jointly develop, deliver and commercialise right areas and protect frontline services.
decision-making cycles or seasonality, the Governments portfolio of IT Our extensive experience in service require a greater degree of flexibility, for management training tools.
For our delivery has proven that services which example, public and private sector private sector clients, we can generate are easy to use deliver downstream organisations that need to be able to additional sales revenue by using targeted savings, in terms of reduced contact swiftly increase or reduce scale in line customer analytics and sales expertise and improved loyalty and customer with fluctuations in demand for services.
to increase up-selling opportunities and convenience.
For details on how we We can use our shared service centres to improve retention.
To ensure we are develop our capability and scale: support this, both for administration and aligned with clients objectives, we can see page 22 processing and also customer create financial models which incentivise management needs.
For further details revenue growth to the mutual benefit of Channel shift and on our delivery infrastructure: both the client and Capita.
reduced failure demand see page 23 We can support clients in transitioning to Commercial certainty and reduced risk Benefits from innovation seamless multi-channel service delivery, For each major BPM contract, we covering the whole range of contact Simple, easy to use technologies are commit to a range of contract specific points including online, telephone, revolutionising how customers and performance metrics in order to ensure email, social media, web chat, post and citizens interact with services, making that we are meeting clients expectations.
We work with clients to new demands of service providers to As a result, clients find that outsourcing move customers to the most appropriate, be more agile and responsive.
We have actually gives them more control low-cost channel to meet their needs.
developed a multichannel customer over support operations as they are By leveraging our process and customer experience management toolset that able to directly measure service costs management experience and analytics, allows us to plug in new social media and outputs.
we treat service users as individuals, channels to complement voice and web Supporting wider social aims whether they are consumers or citizens.
chat interactions, alongside responsive, By improving their experience and Our public sector clients, particularly user-centred, self-serve mobile and web perception of the service, we reduce the in local government, face a wide range services.
This provides service users with need for customer service, repeat queries of social and demographic challenges, the simplicity and convenience they need and complaints the failure demand including factors such as economic in each channel, knitted together into which is costly for the organisation decline, high levels of unemployment, coherent, seamless journeys.
increased levels of children in care and ageing populations.
We work with local authorities to create partnerships which can support the achievement of wider social aims, for example, our partnership with Staffordshire County Council secured in 2012 and our contract extension with Southampton City Council, secured in H2 2013.
