Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 77 Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also and the Group and parent company financial statements in responsible for preparing a strategic report, Directors report, accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Directors remuneration report and corporate governance statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements of the corporate and financial information included on the in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial preparation and dissemination of financial statements may statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Details of the principal risk categories can be found on pages Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 38 and 39. statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and Approval of the annual accounts fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Directors responsibility statement Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors We, the Directors of the Company, confirm that to the best are required to: of our knowledge: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the financial statements prepared in accordance with the consistently applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or prudent loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation as a whole for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU the Directors report, including content contained by reference, includes a fair review of the development and for the parent company financial statements, state whether performance of the business and the position of the Issuer applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and the parent company financial statements uncertainties that they face.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Directors statement on the annual report parent company will continue in business.
The Directors consider the annual report taken as a whole, The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting to be fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent the information necessary for the shareholders to assess the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy Companys performance, business model and strategy.
at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for On behalf of the Board taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and Gordon Hurst other irregularities.
Group Finance Director and Company Secretary 26 February 2014 Capita plc Registered in England and Wales No.
