46 | Capita plc Strong leadership and robust processes Operating responsibly is essential to our Our five CR priority areas 7.
Operating business, creating long term value for all We have identified five CR priority our stakeholders but also contributing areas which have the greatest economic positively to society and the environment, responsibly impact on our business, are of most leading to a more sustainable future.
concern to our stakeholders, and which have the greatest potential to affect our By operating a responsible and future business.
sustainable business, we create financial value through: We set KPIs around each priority to drive improvement and we measure and report building our competitive advantage on our progress annually, see page 14 managing risk and reducing costs across for a summary of these performance our business measures.
Our monthly MOB reporting attracting, retaining and motivating the process provides a forum through which best people opportunities and material risks can be creating value for clients by helping shared with the Group Board.
them deliver their own corporate 1.
Responding to our clients responsibility CR agenda 2.
Managing and motivating our people encouraging innovation and identifying 3.
Building successful supplier relationships opportunities to grow and expand into 4.
Running a resource efficient business new markets 5.
Investing in local communities maintaining and enhancing our brand reputation.
View all our policies online: www.
co. uk responsibility CR leadership Our CR programme is overseen by the Group Board.
Gordon Hurst, Group Finance Director has overall responsibility for our strategy, with each Executive Director having responsibility for one or more priority impact areas.
The CR strategy and operating structure are communicated across Capita by a central CR team in association with the functional heads who form the CR Steering Group.
The functional heads are responsible for activities within their respective areas.
They provide guidance and support at the business unit level and communicate progress to the Board.
The CR Steering Group meets regularly throughout the year to review and challenge the Groups approach, impact areas and risks and opportunities.
They are supported by a number of communication initiatives and employee networks that help us embed our CR programmes across the Group.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 47 People policies Health and safety Responding to our clients We apply our values, policies and Most of our work is office-based, requiring Meeting the needs of our clients, and principles to all our employees, wherever a strong focus on health and safety delivering high quality services, is an they are based.
They are reviewed issues such as slips, trips and falls and integral part of Capitas model and is regularly and as we grow our international workstation assessments.
However, we detailed throughout this report.
business, we continually adapt our have an increasing number of field force see pages 15 to 33. policy and training materials to comply workers who may face different issues.
with, or exceed, the legal and regulatory Managing and We manage health and safety risk for all requirements of the countries in which we motivating our people our activities through the Group-wide operate.
We have a number of CapitaOver 70% of our 64,000 employees health and safety management system.
wide policies to protect our employees, have transferred to Capita under TUPE Our Group health and safety team works including those covering equality Transfer of Undertakings, Protection of with managers to identify hazards, assess and diversity, health and safety, our Employment regulations demonstrating risk and take appropriate action at each whistleblowing policy, speak up, and our the depth of our experience of managing particular site.
This includes assessing all code of ethical conduct.
Our joint COOs complex large-scale employee transfers.
new contracts and acquisitions to ensure have Board responsibility for these policies that they are in line with Group standards.
We track employee retention as one of and ensure that they are adopted across our key performance indicators.
In 2013, We monitor our health and safety the business.
our retention rate for managers across performance across the business and in Respecting human rights the Group divisional directors and senior 2013, our accident rate was 1.42 per 1,000 We understand our responsibility management teams was 98% and our employees 2012: 1.41 showing a 38% to respect the human rights of our overall employee retention rate was 82%.
reduction in reportable accidents from our employees and those of the communities baseline in 2004.
Succession planning is a key element in which we operate.
We support the of our strategy, ensuring that we have Recognising and rewarding principles set out in the articles of the the appropriate resources in place to performance United Nations Universal Declaration maintain stable leadership.
In order to of Human Rights, and the International We aim to attract and retain the best retain the best people we give them possible talent for our business and Labour Organisation ILO Core the opportunity to grow and develop Labour Principles.
recognise that rewarding peoples and we actively reassign managers to individual achievements plays a key part As a service business, we mainly focus on new business areas in order to promote in this.
Remuneration packages and local labour and workplace rights, including the Capita ethos.
This allows us to performance schemes are managed fair working conditions, freedom of share innovation and skills between by individual businesses, supported by association and collective bargaining.
contracts and businesses, helping us to corporate guidance, to ensure they are In 2014, we are developing a stand-alone stay at the forefront of the BPM market.
competitive within their markets and they human rights policy, in consultation We support all our employees in their reflect terms and conditions and union with the Groups CR Steering Group career development and offer a number arrangements within each business unit.
and stakeholders across our business.
of different types of training programmes, The policy will build on our existing A Group-wide employee recognition delivered by our internal learning and scheme, the Capita People Awards, human rights commitments currently development business.
detailed in our people policies and our celebrate employees who are excelling It is vital that we have the right people, in one of five categories that reflect responsible sourcing policy and will with the right skills, to deliver high be developed in conjunction with an behaviours that Capita consider key to quality services for our broad client base.
the success of the business service action plan.
We strive to create a place of work which excellence, innovation and improvement, is inspiring, open, supportive and secure.
teamwork, leadership, and charitable We have a clear set of values which support and community engagement.
include: respect and support, consistency in managing our employees, delivering consistent high quality services and giving our employees autonomy and responsibility in their roles.
48 | Capita plc Strong leadership and robust processes Developing our employees Diversity and inclusion Employee engagement We operate a consistent performance Our aim is to attract the best people Listening to and valuing the opinions of management system across the whole of from the broadest talent pool so that our our employees is good for productivity Capita and use this to identify talented teams reflect the communities we serve and retention, and it helps shape employees who have the potential to and deliver a better service for our clients.
We engage with be one of our future leaders.
Our Capita We focus on a number of key areas: employees in a number of ways, Manager Academy runs programmes from face-to-face conversations with values and behaviour designed to equip them with the skills managers to our annual employee survey.
equal opportunities they need to meet this potential.
In 2013, Structured around our core values, we launched a new masters course for promoting a positive working the employee survey helps us identify middle managers looking to progress environment what were doing well and what we can in their career.
In 2013, 46% of our employees meeting the needs of diverse customers.
graduate development programme MSc responded to our employee survey As we expand into new areas of business, in leadership and management, which 2012: 46%.
We are now using the results we face new challenges.
For example, our currently has 28 participants.
We offer a to shape our 2014 strategy.
contracts with the UK Border Agency and wide variety of learning and development the Department for Work and Pensions opportunities for all our employees often require us to support people with including online training, workplace very specific needs.
We aim to build training, coaching and group instruction.
teams that understand those needs, so This year, we invested 14m in training that they are equipped with the skills across the Group 2012: 13m.
and behaviours they need to provide a high level of appropriate service.
All our employees are required to complete online diversity awareness training every three years and we monitor compliance on a monthly basis.
Our 2013 performance: our people 2013 2012 Employee retention Manager retention rate divisional 98% 96% directors and senior management team Overall employee retention rate 82% 83% Health and safety accident frequency rate 1.42 1.41 per 1,000 employees RIDDOR Employee diversity Male female split 51% male 50% male 49% female 50% female 32,087 male 26,533 male 30,648 female 26,113 female Male female split for senior management 86% male 88% male divisional directors and senior 14% female 12% female management teams 84 male 14 female 61 male 8 female Male female split for Board of directors 67% male 33% 70% male female 30% female 6 male 7 male 3 female 3 female Percentage actual number of employees 22% 19% 1 from ethnic minority groups 24,812 20,387 Percentage of employees working part-time out 18% 19% of total workforce Employees by location Onshore 88.5% 87.7% Offshore 9.0% 9.8% Nearshore 2.5% 2.5% 1 Based on 45% of our employees disclosing their ethnic origin in our annual employee survey 2012: 44%.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 49 Our responsible sourcing policy, which we Building successful refreshed and re-launched in March 2013, supplier relationships outlines the principles and standards we As Capita continues to grow and diversify, expect from our suppliers, including the both in terms of service and geographical health and safety of their employees, spread, the impact of our purchasing human rights, working conditions, antidecisions widens.
We have a very diverse bribery and corruption and environmental supplier base, currently spending around management.
We assess the risk 1.1bn a year with some 28,900 suppliers associated with each supplier based on across our delivery network.
For further the amount we spend with them, what details on our business centres: they supply and where in the world they see page 23 operate.
This assessment determines We have a central procurement team how we engage with them to ensure that takes a category management they comply with our policies.
approach that allows us to build strategic Where we have acquired a new business, partnerships.
The team manages our key our procurement team undertakes a risk strategic suppliers and also supports a assessment of the business suppliers network of local procurement specialists as part of the due diligence process to within individual businesses to ensure ensure that they meet Capitas standards consistent standards are met across the before they migrate to become one of Group.
Our central team meets regularly our suppliers.
with key suppliers to review performance, share knowledge and expertise, and Diversity in our supply chain look at opportunities to collaborate.
We aim to work with a diverse range Spending time with these suppliers means of suppliers, and we actively encourage that they understand our business and SMEs, voluntary and community opportunities for improvement, and organisations and social enterprises we can help them improve their own to be part of our supply chain.
Currently 64% of our supplier base are SMEs.
Where possible we support the communities where we work by using local suppliers.
Our 2013 performance: supplier relationships 2013 2012 Annually audit all strategic suppliers 100% 100% KPI Engaging with our suppliers All new suppliers All new suppliers registered on online registered on online portal to ensure portal to ensure they meet our they meet our standards standards 50 | Capita plc Strong leadership and robust processes Reducing our carbon footprint Weve capped company car CO Running a resource 2 emissions at 130g km, below the industry efficient business We measure and report our carbon average, and we plan to reduce it further emissions annually and in 2010 we set Climate change and resource scarcity are in the future.
Were also trialling the use of ourselves a target to reduce our carbon two of the biggest issues facing society electric cars across some of our operations intensity scopes 1 and 2 by 4.5% a and we are committed to playing our part and we promote the UK Governments year.
In 2013 our carbon emissions were in tackling these challenges, taking a proCycle to Work scheme as part of our 110,341 tonnes CO eq, an increase of active approach to good environmental 2 employee benefits package.
This increase was due to a number management and trying to minimise of reasons including: continued growth both our direct and indirect impacts on Waste management and resource use of the business through acquisitions and the environment.
We strive to use our resources efficiently contract wins including new operations and avoid generating waste, for example, We monitor and assess our environmental such as the Fire Service College: increased reducing our paper usage through the impacts and continue to focus our efforts travel to our international network of increased use of electronic document on: minimising energy use at our sites, business centres: significant increase in management systems.
Last year we began reducing business travel, managing our 24 7 call centre operations.
working with our facilities provider to resource use and waste management.
Energy use collect accurate, robust data on our waste We also seek to minimise any risks to at our 20 largest waste producing sites our own operations, including having Reducing energy use in our offices is a and set ourselves a target of recycling business continuity plans in place, for key priority.
Weve had a programme in 80% of all our waste at these sites by example, to mitigate if there are extreme place to identify and act on opportunities 2015.
In 2013, the average volume of weather conditions which may prevent to make improvements since 2006. waste recycled at these sites was 43%, our employees getting to work to deliver We continue to make improvements with two sites already recycling 74% for our clients.
across our sites, installing smart of waste.
metering at all sites that come under Our environmental policy sets out our the UK Governments carbon reduction We have a number of Group-wide approach to managing and reducing regulations.
In 2013, we also committed recycling schemes in place for paper, our impacts on the environment.
to use renewable energy across consumables such as printer cartridges, Our environmental management system our operations.
mobile phones and redundant IT is based on ISO14001.
In 2013, we maintained businesses, including Capita Property We are making significant energy savings high levels of recycling, with 26,139 and Infrastructure, have gained external in our data centres.
In 2013, we switched pieces of IT equipment recycled.
We also accreditation, where it is required by their to EC fans, which consume around 50% work with our suppliers to source more marketplace.
A number of our clients less electricity than conventional air environmentally friendly products and also require us to gain the accreditation conditioning fans.
review the logistics of how goods are for their particular operations.
At the Business travel delivered to our offices.
end of 2013, this certification covered In 2013, we adapted and re-launched buildings where approximately 11% of Although our water usage across our our Business Travel Policy, reflecting the our employees are based.
sites is not significant, we endeavour step change were aiming for in cutting to conserve this resource.
For example, both costs and carbon emissions.
Weve where we have direct control of a site, introduced green travel plans at a number or when we are refurbishing one of our of sites.
We encourage our employees to offices, we install low flush toilets, taps use video and teleconferencing to reduce and urinal controls.
In 2013, we saw a 25% increase in teleconferences.
Where travel is unavoidable, we encourage the use of public transport and intelligent travel planning.
Our 2013 performance: environmental impacts 2013 2012 1 KPI Total carbon footprint tonnes CO eq 110,341 103,728 2 2 Carbon intensity for whole Group 28.7% 23.3% Conference calls made 379,082 302,939 Undertake environmental site audits twice a year 100% 100% audits audits completed completed 1 Based on latest greenhouse gas emissions from Defra.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 51 We support organisations that work in Investing in local communities these areas in a number of different ways We are committed to making a positive drawing on our capabilities and employee impact in the communities where we skills by: work and live.
We create value in the local communities we operate in, both directly providing a virtual shared-services centre through our community investment where organisations can access support programme and indirectly through our services to improve their efficiency and daily business operations.
Our community focus more on their front-line programme aims to tackle pressing social providing pro bono advice and and economic issues on both a national mentoring to help build capacity and and local scale.
We endeavour to go long term sustainability beyond our contractual obligations to developing and delivering community demonstrate to our clients, customers partnership programmes to address and employees that we are a responsible local needs.
business and want to have a lasting positive impact.
In addition to our community development foundation we also have an Community development foundation active charity programme, supporting In 2013, we set up our new community many charities, including our 2013 development foundation Creating corporate charity partner, Cancer Better Tomorrows.
In 2013, we raised 239,000 helps charities, SMEs and voluntary through this partnership.
For further organisations working across four key details on our community projects, visit: areas.
These areas were chosen to align www.
co. uk responsibility with the issues present in some of our key Measuring our impact markets so that we can help and work with people beyond the services delivered To ensure we are achieving our aims, by our business operations and on behalf and having a positive impact in the of our clients.
community, we endeavour to measure and report our contribution, looking not inclusion for people with health issues just at the inputs and outputs but also the rehabilitation of ex-offenders overall community and business impacts resettlement for ex-service personnel of our activities.
We do this using London Benchmarking Group methodology, young people, particularly those in care.
taking account of cash, time given and in-kind donations.
In 2013, we estimate that our total community investment was 1.8m based on data capture from approximately 40% of the business.
In 2014, we will also be developing our impact measurements further to better assess the effectiveness of our community programmes across a wider percentage of the Group.
Our 2013 performance: community investment 2013 2012 Total community investment using London Benchmarking KPI 1.8m 1.8m Group methodology Total corporate donations including support for our charity partner 297k 135k and matched funding scheme, other community initiatives and disaster appeals Employee fundraising for our corporate charity partner 239k 245k
