Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 143 1 Accounting policies continued j Derivative financial instruments The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts to hedge risks associated with interest and exchange rate fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair values of interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts are determined by reference to market rates for similar instruments.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either: fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: or cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to either a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction.
In relation to fair value hedges e. g. fixed to floating interest rate swaps held as fair value hedges against fixed interest rate borrowings which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the profit and loss account.
In relation to cash flow hedges the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the profit and loss account when the hedged transaction affects the profit and loss account, such as when the hedged financial income or financial expense is recognised or when a forecast transaction occurs.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
If the forecast transaction or firm commitment is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to the profit and loss account.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction or firm commitment occurs.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the profit and loss account.
k Share based payments The Company operates a number of executive and employee share schemes.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined using an option pricing model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions, the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the profit and loss account, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Subsidiary undertakings of the Company reimburse the Company through the intercompany account for charges attributable to their employees participating in the Companys share schemes.
2 Deferred taxation 2013 2012 m m The deferred taxation included in the balance sheet is as follows: Accelerated capital allowances 0.7 1.0 Share based payments 3.2 3.5 Cash flow hedges 6.4 5.2 Fixed rate interest rate swaps 5.3 12.1 Provisions 0.7 1.2 Included in debtors note 8 14.9 21.0 3 Profit Loss attributable to members of the parent undertaking The profit after taxation dealt with in the accounts of the parent undertaking was 299.5m 2012: loss of 92.1m.
4 Dividends 2013 2012 m m Declared and paid during the year Ordinary shares equity : Final for 2012 paid: 15.6p per share 2011: 14.2p per share 102.1 86.7 Interim for 2013 paid: 8.7p per share 2012: 7.9p per share 57.0 51.4 159.1 138.1 Proposed for approval at AGM not recognised as a liability at 31 December Ordinary shares equity : Final for 2013: 17.8p per share 2012: 15.6p per share 116.9 101.3
