30 | Capita plc Delivering sustainable, profitable growth Capitas evolution across a number of Our revenue profile 4.
Securing markets has enabled us to develop a Our revenue profile is broadly broad-based services business which comprised of: generates revenue from multiple clients organic growth Long term multi-service contracts: and contracts across a wide range of high quality, recurring revenues diverse sectors.
delivered from multiple, integrated The Groups long term performance is administration and customer services primarily driven by our medium to long contracts, with a typical duration of term customer management and business five to 20 years.
process management BPM contracts Single services: annual rollover, high which provide a high degree of visibility of repeat rate or secured under medium future revenues.
contracts of two to five years.
Discretionary spend: additional services for existing clients and or change control requests Transactional activities 10% of revenue: short term projects contracts for specific work streams.
1 2013 Feb April May contract wins 2 Carphone Cabinet Office Axelos Telefnica Warehouse UK O2 Estimated revenue: Value: Value: 400m 160m 1.2bn Duration: 10 years Duration: 10 years New Duration: 10 years New New extension Cabinet Office London Borough Civil Service Learning of Barnet Value: Value: 60m 154m Duration: 2 years Duration: 10 years Extension New University of Strathclyde Value: 40m 1 For details of the original announcements, Duration: 5 years visit www.
2 New See page 114 for details of our investment in Axelos.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 31 Identifying the right opportunities 2013 major sales update Given the long term nature of major Capita reported another strong year in contracts, it is essential for us to pursue 2013 securing 17 new major contracts only those relationships that can both worth a total value of 3.3bn, comprised meet clients expectations and generate of 81% new business and 19% renewals.
This high Contracts were spread across our target level of selectivity, along with our bespoke markets, with particular success in central client solutions, underpins our long term government, including justice, and in the win rate of between one in two and one private sector where we secured a number in three.
In 2013, our win rate was two of new customer management contracts.
We have reported an organic growth rate We continue to look for: of 8% for the full year 2013 2012: 3% as a result of the incremental revenue clients with whom we can build a strong from new contracts secured in 2012 relationship and deliver real benefits and revenue from the 2013 wins which defined bid processes with clear commenced during the year.
See our decision criteria finance review on page 40 for further opportunities in line with our core details on our financial performance.
competencies in service transformation fair risk reward balance and acceptable contractual obligations limited requirement for capital investment, unless there is a real value proposition for Capita.
Aug Nov Ministry of Justice Southampton Electronic Monitoring City Council Estimated revenue: Value: 400m 124m Duration: 6 years Duration: 5 years New Extension Department of Energy npower and Climate Change Value: Smart metering Value: 120m Duration: 7 years 175m New Duration: 12 years New NAMA Value: 69m Duration: 4 years New 32 | Capita plc Delivering sustainable, profitable growth Actively replenishing our pipeline Creating the right bid team Procurement process Capitas pipeline represents our major We manage procurements either centrally The procurement process, especially in bid opportunities which have reached or at divisional level, depending on the the public sector, can be costly to pursue shortlist stage.
It provides a fair indication size and complexity of the opportunity.
and we maintain stringent criteria to focus of the health of the outsourcing market Our major sales team pursues complex, resources only on opportunities where and can be a useful indicator of likely long term customer management and we see a real prospect of success.
If at any future organic growth.
BPM contracts, usually valued in excess of stage we feel that procurement conditions 50m, drawing on Capita-wide resources have shifted significantly or that any of Behind our bid pipeline is an active to tailor solutions to each clients these criteria are no longer met, we will, prospect list of opportunities where requirements.
Sales opportunities below after detailed consultation, withdraw from the bidding process is underway but 50m are generally managed by divisional the process.
We will not take on excessive where we have yet to reach a shortlist or teams with support from the central risk or output-based contracts which are final bidding stage.
This prospect list is major sales team.
overly reliant on external factors that are supported by a suspect list, relationships out of our control.
which we are nurturing to generate future On any major sales opportunity, the bid opportunities.
central bid team can draw on the In the private sector, the procurement resources from across our divisional process is determined by each individual structure including expertise from our client, often working with advisers.
The divisional and We seek out opportunities through Management Operations Business MOB business intelligence and existing reporting structure is vital to the flow of relationships: increasingly, we are also information, expertise and resources to approached directly by organisations.
the sales teams both within and across UK public sector contracts are subject other divisions.
to a defined procurement process see page 35 which can take up to two years to complete.
EU policy requires fair and open competition and opportunities are formally advertised and notified.
In addition, under EU competition law, public sector outsourcing contracts that are already in place must be offered for tender when the initial contract and extension term is complete.
Fuelling organic growth Our bid pipeline is subject to clear criteria: contains contracts of 25m or above shortlisted to the last four or fewer bidders Bid capped at 1bn to prevent very large individual pipeline contracts distorting the total.
1 5.5bn Number of bids: 25 Behind our bid pipeline is a prospect list of opportunities where significant active Prospect list engagement is underway, but where we have active live bids yet to reach a shortlist or final bidding stage.
The prospect list is supported by a suspect list relationships which Suspect list we are nurturing to generate future identified opportunities bid opportunities.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 33 Our contract price is generally made up of Securing appropriate pricing Retaining and expanding contracts a base cost that covers the transformation and contract terms As well as securing new business from and normal running costs of the new clients, we work to renew or expand Our major contracts are long term service.
Where demand on the service commitments.
It is therefore essential existing client relationships.
By achieving infrastructure and resources fluctuates, operational excellence, we often secure that our pricing and contract terms are the pricing will include a variable volumecorrect from the start to ensure that additional business from clients and we related element.
All contracts include a achieve high retention rates as contracts we maintain a mutually beneficial, long related basket of indices that reflect the term relationship which is based on trust.
Over the last 30 cost elements of the service such as wage years, we have only failed to renew four of We undertake extensive due diligence inflation indices, CPI and RPI.
Our scale, to build detailed service, risk and pricing our material contracts defined as having multi-country service delivery model and forecast annual revenue in excess of 1% of models.
We often share these openly with low central overhead costs help to provide our prospective clients to ensure that all the previous years revenue.
These include additional competitive advantage and the London Congestion Charging Scheme, our assumptions for delivering successfully enable us to generate reasonable margins on the project are robust and that the which we re-won in January 2014, and the for the Group.
contract to administer the Disclosure and benefits generated to both parties are fully understood.
Barring Service previously CRB which we Our track record in accurately pricing continue to deliver.
We have one material contracts enables us to offer clients To ensure prudent pricing, we clearly contract up for rebid in 2015 arising from sensible and realistic proposals while separate responsibilities between a recent acquisition and then no further robustly managing and mitigating risk.
sales teams client relationships, sales 1 material rebids for the next five years.
Once agreed, the terms of our contracts support teams pricing and risk models are fixed which means we have a good and the Group Board solution and For further details relating to our view of stable, long term revenues.
contract wins, visit the media and pricing approval.
co. uk Typical major BPM bid and contract life cycle Opportunity Contract identified secured 520 year and bid contract duration transfer and transformation 318 months delivering service Contract improvement and creation of bid team Contract renewal cost savings exploration of clients long extension continuous improvement rebid term objectives and their customers needs solution developed in process with the client, drawing on Capita-wide skills and resources 515 year 25 years new contract stipulated at original duration contract award full rebid required with further adaptation of public sector contracts service to meet new requirements in our 30 years of operation we have only failed to renew four of our 1 material contracts 1 Material contracts: defined as generating more than 1% of previous years revenue.
34 | Capita plc Strong leadership and robust processes A key element in Capitas business model is the approach we take to managing and nurturing growth.
Strong leadership and robust processes across finance, risk management and operations are embedded in our reporting mechanisms and employee culture.
We focus on the following key areas, as set out in our business model on page 7: 5.
Effective risk management see page 35 6.
Strong financial discipline see page 40 7.
A flexible operating structure see page 52
