Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 35 Managing our business Robust, straightforward structure 5.
Effective Our flat management structure and 2013 has seen Capita continue to governance procedures promote grow and diversify its operational and controls accountability and knowledge sharing regulatory footprint.
In addition, the across the business.
This is underpinned outsourcing sector has seen increased by a straightforward and pragmatic scrutiny by stakeholders of our ability and risk divisional structure which encourages to deliver on contractual obligations.
entrepreneurship and ensures optimum We continue to successfully operate management service delivery for all our clients.
our business, track our performance and manage the risks arising through Our monthly financial and operational our Capita-wide management and reporting process the Management governance structures.
Operations Business MOB reviews is the formal channel for this and we also Our approach is to provide all levels of encourage more informal collaborative management with a clear line of sight to, behaviours through our day-to-day and responsibility for, the performance of reporting, team working mechanisms their particular business, development of and our incentive structures.
market opportunities and management of the key risks.
These structures develop over time and 2013 has seen further enhancements put into place.
The core approach and objective remains the same: to underpin the success of the businesses as a whole while promoting a culture of transparency and responsibility at every level.
Management and governance structure Audit Management Group and Risk Operations Business Board New business MOB Review Committee gateway Black Hat process Executive Nominations Remuneration Bids over Acquisitions Pre-MOB Level Risk Committee Committee 50m Divisional Review Committees financial services and non-financial services Bids under Divisional Risk, Divisional Business 50m Compliance and directors Unit Review Audit Committees Business Unit Risk Business Unit Committee Board Specialist Specialist Committee Committee Risk Strategy Bids Performance Compliance Business planning and performance Acquisitions Internal Audit Dividend policy Capital management Sales and marketing 36 | Capita plc Strong leadership and robust processes Group Internal Audit: provides the Board, Business management Risk management the Audit and Risk Committee and all Capita sets an overall Group business plan It is our policy to observe high standards levels of management with an objective based on the Boards strategic direction of integrity and fair dealing in the conduct opinion on the results of its reviews.
and risk appetite, together with the of our business and to act with due skill, Its role is to review the adequacy and input of the divisions who remain close care and diligence.
effectiveness of the Groups governance, to their markets and better understand Taking and managing appropriate levels processes, controls and risk management the challenges and opportunities within of risk is an integral part of all our business in implementing agreed strategies as them.
This is mirrored in the approach activities.
Risk management, performed defined by the Board.
The Audit and Risk to acquisitions some will be originated rigorously and comprehensively, creates Committee approves the Group internal as targets by divisions to augment their stability, contributes to business success audit plan and may review any aspect propositions, some will be originated by and growth and is a key element of of its work.
Group Internal Audit reports the Executive Board as part of a more operational management.
It also provides regularly to the Audit and Risk Committee strategic direction for Capita.
the framework for the management and the executive risk committees on Every year, individual divisions develop of business and operational risk in the significant issues, risks and themes arising their own business plans and strategy performance of Capitas activities, to from its work together with a summary of which are reviewed and challenged by the meet the requirements of good corporate managements progress in implementing Board before being consolidated into the governance and protect the interests of its recommendations.
purposes, the Group Internal Audit function reports to the Group finance Having set the strategic direction for the Capitas business model is decentralised director.
Group Internal Audit has free business, the Board monitors the ongoing and our approach to risk management and full access to all activities, records, achievement of these underlying goals.
It is the responsibility properties and employees throughout This is primarily the responsibility of the of management at all levels of the the Group in the course of its work.
joint chief operating officers COOs to organisation to ensure that risks are The Group internal audit director has whom the divisional directors report on understood and appropriately managed regular meetings with the Chairman of a regular basis: the Joint COOs in turn in accordance with the Group Risk policies the Audit and Risk Committee.
report to the Group Board.
and within the Boards risk appetite.
This is in line with the standard three lines of Divisional Risk and Compliance: supports Performance management defence model that has been adopted.
divisional and constituent business unit Alongside overall business management management with their risk management Control functions activities.
Teams vary in size dependent described above, Capita operates a Group Risk and Compliance: maintains focused performance management on the divisions inherent risks financial appropriate risk management policies services businesses being examples where process the Management Operations and frameworks on behalf of the Business MOB review on a more developed teams operate but all Group Board and provides oversight operate within their own divisions with monthly basis.
for the implementation and execution escalation reporting lines to the Groups Initially, the performance of a divisions of those policies.
It also acts as a corisk and compliance director.
business units is collated at pre-MOB ordination point for our business level Towards the end of 2012, we unified meetings, chaired by the divisional compliance activities and provides director, where their team reports on strategic leadership in our relationships Capitas risk and compliance functions to provide a single focus at Group performance, business opportunities with our various regulatory authorities.
and, importantly, any client or The Groups risk and compliance director level over our management of risk.
As that combined function developed, it operational challenges.
has an administrative reporting line to the Group finance director.
The main highlighted a requirement to refresh our The main MOB meetings are between Group-wide risk framework which had conduit for reporting is to the Audit and individual divisional directors and the Risk Committee and the Executive Risk been substantively in place since 2009.
A consistent reporting Since its introduction and adoption, Committees.
The director also has access format allows the Executive Team to to all members of the Board and holds Capita has grown significantly both in size understand financial performance but, most importantly, in the diversity of regular meetings with the executive and projected outturns, key business and divisional directors.
also regularly meets the Audit and MOB reviews provide a formal and Risk Committee Chairman and nonconsistent line of sight from Board level executive directors.
down to the businesses within each division and have proven to allow a quicker development of opportunities and resolution of issues.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 37 During 2013, we commenced a Our risk appetite Managing our bids and acquisitions programme to refresh our overall risk Risk appetite, as defined by the Capita Capita has grown significantly since its management framework to better Board, is the degree of risk the Company formation through a combination of support the ongoing development of the is prepared to accept in the pursuit of its contract wins and targeted acquisitions.
The key principles have already objectives before specific action is deemed The Board has always accepted that been signed off by the Group Board and necessary to reduce it.
In other words, the rate of growth is itself a risk and will be completed during 2014.
These key our risk appetite is an important element that the appropriate identification and design principles include: in setting and applying business strategy assessment of strategic, operational, across Capita and making key business financial and regulatory risks arising from further development of divisional risk decisions.
It does not operate in abstract each transaction has an important role in capacity and competency from day-to-day business management.
consistent and universal approach to managing risk across a diverse group Capita currently has a Group Risk Appetite In all contracts and acquisitions there Statement in place but through the risk will be Black Hat reviews where focus on information for decisionframework refresh, this is being further management divisional and or executive making developed to provide more clarity on depending on size of deal undertake a a broadened horizon of the potential appetite around: structured assessment to consider the exposures faced by Capita and the pricing and risk profile.
Group control strategic objectives including business impact these have on the business functions are standing invitees to model, reputation and integration risks emphasis on the authority and remit these to ensure key risks are given an of the framework financial and reporting objectives appropriate discussion.
including financial, business and ensuring relevance of framework The measure of the effectiveness of disclosure risks to business structure and inherent this approach is not just the success risk profile.
operational objectives including of the contract wins and acquisitions customer delivery, duty of care, 2014 will see the continuation of completed, it is also in the contract bids resilience and change risks this development and roll out to the or acquisitions we choose not to proceed compliance objectives including legal, wider business.
with for commercial or risk reasons.
Developing our risk management framework Audit Capita plc and Risk Committee Board Assurance Reporting of significant Appetite setting, policy activities risks, policy design, guidance and standard approval and Policy setting, prioritisation of effort guidance and oversight Group Group Risk and Compliance Functions Reporting Group Internal Divisional Divisional Divisional Divisional Divisional R&C R&C R&C R&C R&C Audit Oversight and guidance Division Division Division Division Division 38 | Capita plc Strong leadership and robust processes Principal risk categories Potential impacts, examples of mitigations and developments in 2013 Key risk categories Potential risks and impacts Mitigating activities include 2013 developments Adverse effect on business Strong financial controls operated by unified Greater stakeholder interest in Financial financial performance from e. g. finance structure robustness of controls exposure mispricing long term contracts, Assurance provided by Group Internal Audit GIA Increased use of GIA to provide client disputes or changing assurance Monthly finances reviewed in MOB market landscape New procurement processes rolled Capital expenditure is subject to rigorous approvals Adverse investor impact and out to strengthen current and monitoring detriment expenditure control 'Black Hat' process across significant bids and Impact to brand reputation.
Disposal of some of our insurance acquisitions.
distribution businesses and closure of our SIP Self Invested Pensions administration business, see page 105.
Contractual dispute with client Review of key third party contracts by commercial Strengthening of Material Supplier Partnerships firms teams Policy and adoption Group-wide third party Reputation risk Monitoring of key outsourced services SLAs Increased regulatory FCA focus on outsourced services Potential financial loss Group Outsourcing Material Suppliers Policy to Capita New partnerships London Borough of Individual business unit risk reviews Barnet, Staffordshire County Council, Potential disruption to supply Partnership governance.
Cabinet Office and go-live of RPP.
Failure to meet contractual Operating performance indicators in place for all Increased regulatory focus on conduct Client terms, mobilisation milestones businesses and key contracts risk delivery of end customer delivery and service level agreements in outcomes Robust contractual and governance mechanism for major contracts management for third parties Greater stakeholder scrutiny in public Client service financial penalties sector contracts Risk Committees and MOB challenge and oversight End customer detriment New operating frameworks finalised for Risk-based independent assurance GIA insurance businesses Potential loss of contracts Business resilience arrangements to protect key Development of new risk framework Liabilities for actions of third services includes customer delivery risk.
parties Incident support by internal PR team.
Planned synergies failing to Strong financial controls operated by unified Changes in legislation extend historic Bids and achieve financial targets finance structure liability reach, e. g. acquired liability risk acquisitions in anti-bribery and corruption and data Detrimental impact on growth Due diligence on financial, operational, market and security and performance of business risk matters, often using external advisers 2013 acquisitions and contracts have Integration challenges resulting Black Hat governance process extended regulatory footprint in higher operational risks e. g. Group Board review and approval of acquisitions data security, customer Implementation of Group Due and significant bids delivery Diligence and Integration Policy across Commercial and contractual terms closely reviewed all Capita businesses Mispricing of long term major to ensure clarity contracts Strengthening of Group risk and Integration and transition process.
compliance oversight of non-financial Impairment of goodwill and service deals.
intangible assets through underperformance or unforeseen developments in acquired businesses.
Weaker economic conditions Focus on 11 diverse public and private sector Supply of services that support essential Economic are a key driver for outsourcing, markets client functions rather than and market however, extreme economic discretionary activities Focus on widening scope of existing contracts to uncertainty can result in a delay landscape help clients save money Initiatives to increase the efficiency of in buying decisions and lower Group operations Proactively diversified our business operations discretionary spend across some across numerous private and public sector markets Newer operations in justice and market segments and market segments.
emergency services and customer General Elections may cause a management have continued to open pause in bid decisions in central up bid opportunities with new clients.
Failure to recruit and retain Extensive training and development for all staff and Introduction of new Capita Vetting Human quality people impacts business management Policy to better detect issues with resources delivery and strategic plans candidates Continual development and performance appraisals Morale issues weigh on Increased staff numbers through Competitive incentive and bonus plans productivity and innovation contract growth acquisition to manage Succession planning consistently Higher costs likely from Comprehensive vetting process in line with roles.
Whistleblowing line refresh to ensure significant staff issues escalated appropriately.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 39 Principal risk categories Potential impacts, examples of mitigations and developments in 2013 Key risk categories Potential risks and impacts Mitigating activities include 2013 developments Contractual and regulatory Group-wide policies and procedures Appointment of divisional information Information penalties security directors to better focus local Single information security framework, including security business effort Loss or theft of customer policies and processes client data Executive level Group Security Risk Risk Committee oversight at all business levels Board and governance structure set-up Loss or theft of intellectual Staff training and monitoring programme property Potential changes in EU Data Protection Implementation of Group information security legislation requires considerable work Adverse media comment and policies and protocols by acquired businesses and shifts the liability landscape.
reputation impact on brand Cross-Group forum to discuss issues, effective End customer detriment.
controls Regular oversight by Group Risk and Compliance and Group Internal Audit Centralised proactive and reactive PR team.
Failure of IT managed services Adoption of industry standard managed service Increased investment into core IT Technical to support core services and standards and controls infrastructure infrastructure business needs Disaster recovery testing Refresh of managed services and systems Inability to adequately recover Deployment of robust issue detection software and Greater internal and external after disaster incident resolution practices stakeholder expectations availability impacting service delivery Adherence to higher level security environments as Investment in internal IT risk Failure to protect client, end clients require management framework.
Adoption, where appropriate and effective, of ISO 27001 standards.
Significant civil and criminal Appropriate policies and procedures in place Changes in whistleblowing legislation Fraud, penalties in cases of bribery including a Group-wide whistleblowing policy increased risk onus on employers bribery and corruption Board led anti-corruption and anti-fraud culture: Enhanced vetting and screening corruption Potential prohibition from zero-tolerance approach with a robust disciplinary procedures introduced on new staff bidding for public sector process Refreshed fraud policies.
contracts Training of senior management across Capita Client and end customer Formal risk assessments of vulnerabilities detriment Oversight by Group Risk and Compliance Financial impact of fraud Fraud investigation team to investigate and Impact to brand reputation.
prosecute cases, identify root causes and remedial work.
Non-compliance of our Appropriate policies and procedures New financial services regulator and Regulatory businesses with the requirements supervision team for Capita Monitoring by compliance teams in business, Group and legal risk of our regulatory bodies in the Risk and Compliance and Group Internal Audit Increased number of FCA supervised UK or overseas, e. g. our fund providing further oversight firms in Capita to follow consumer administration operation and credit changes Risk Committee oversight at all business levels client money obligations New key regulators for Capita Risk-based assurance and actions for improvement Regulatory, financial and businesses including Solicitors Independent reporting to Group Audit and Risk contractual penalties Regulatory Authority.
Committee and Group Financial Services Risk Client and end customer Committee.
detriment Impact on brand reputation Potential legal action from clients, customers and suppliers.
Non-compliance with health Rigorously applied Health and Safety Policy and Asbestos policy and management Health and and safety regulations processes system is now in place and most of the safety training has been completed although Adverse impact on well-being of Health and safety training we have had a number of incidents in our employees.
Comprehensive Group-wide health and safety 2013, risk has been reduced.
audits undertaken twice a year Environmental management system in place.
Non-compliance with Rigorously applied Environmental Policy and Packaging regulations risk in Capita Environmental environmental regulations processes Secure Information Services reduced through working more closely with IT As a low impact company our Raising awareness of environmental issues across Services to improve packaging data key environmental impacts are the Group collection.
energy use, business travel, Continue to measure and manage our carbon resource use and waste footprint and achieve energy reductions.
management which we manage Environmental site audits carried out twice a year proactively.
Reduction of paper use and increase in recycling Reducing energy use to reduce energy and CRC Allowance costs.
