148 | Capita plc Principal Group investments 1 1 Axelos Limited Fish Administration Limited Provide continuous learning and development in respect of best Providing the sale of insurance services.
Capita International Limited Capita Holdings Limited Provider of administration related services to the business process Holding and investment company.
1 Capita Business Services Limited 1 Capita Managed IT Solutions Limited Providing an integrated range of business process and customer Provider of IT management, cloud-based services, and IT management services to clients in the UK and Ireland.
1 Capita Property and Infrastructure Limited 1 Capita Secure Information Solutions Limited Providing a comprehensive range of project management, Provider of secure IT information solutions.
telecommunications engineering and construction related consultancy services.
1 Entrust Support Services Limited Provider of educational support services.
1 Capita Employee Benefits Consulting Limited Providing employee benefit advice, communication and 1 Knowledgepool Group Limited administration services.
Provider of managed learning services and consultancy.
1 Capita Registrars Limited 1 ParkingEye Limited Share registration and employee share scheme administration services.
Provider of car park management services.
1 Capita Trust Company Limited 1 Capita IT Services BSF Limited Corporate trustees and providers of trust and administration services.
Provider of educational ICT services.
Capita Life & Pensions Services Limited 1 Team 24 Limited Administration and customer services for life and pensions operations.
Capita Life & Pensions Regulated Services Limited 1 Tascor Services Limited Administration and customer services for life and pensions Provider of business process outsourcing to the security and justice sector.
1 Indirectly held 1 Capita Resourcing Limited Employee recruitment services.
1 Capita IT Services Limited Designing, providing and managing networked computing and communication systems.
1 Capita Medical Reporting Limited Medical services administration provider.
1 Capita Employee Benefits Limited Providing actuarial, pension consultancy and administrative services.
1 Capita Customer Management Limited Providing business process outsourcing and customer management services.
1 Service Birmingham Limited Providing ICT and business transformation outsourcing services to the public sector.
