16 | Capita plc Delivering sustainable, profitable growth Ovums market sizing and methodology Significant market potential 1.
Targeting was firstly to identify the composition of We operate predominantly in the BPM the labour market in the UK.
Secondly, market in the UK and Ireland, a market assumptions were made on how big a growth with significant growth potential.
proportion of jobs in each occupational In 2013, we commissioned new market level could potentially be outsourced.
markets research from Ovum, one of the UKs As it is unlikely that all job functions leading independent industry analysts.
would be outsourced, the following Ovum estimates that Capitas total caps were applied: a maximum of addressable market for customer 25% for managers and senior officials management and BPM in the UK is and a maximum of 40% for all other 126bn per year, of which only 11.9bn occupational levels.
Using various sources was outsourced in 2013 2012: 11.4bn, of information, average salary levels were 72% in the private sector and 28% in the then applied.
Other costs were taken public sector.
into account along with the assumption that outsourcing would bring a reduction in cost base.
Previous market research data was provided by another leading industry analyst organisation following the same methodology, the change of research provider followed a review and benchmarking exercise.
Total potential UK customer management and BPM market pa Potential 126bn Total UK customer management and BPM market pa Today 11.9bn Public sector 28% Private sector 72% 11.9bn 126bn Currently outsourced Potential market Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 17 Diversifying our business Competitive landscape From our entry point in local government Capita has maintained and grown its in 1984, we have consciously diversified market leading position in customer and our market reach and now work across business process management BPM over 11 distinct public and private markets.
Our business model allows us to swiftly Our market share in 2013 was 24.7% align resources to meet the demands of 2012: 23.0%.
Our win rate in 2013 has clients across a wide range of sectors and been two in three, clearly beating our has helped us to grow from a company long term win rate of one in three, and with 320 employees and revenue of 25m we achieve this by being very selective in 1991 when Capita fully listed on the regarding the opportunities we bid for London Stock Exchange, to a FTSE 100 and by creating innovative, value added company with over 64,000 employees client propositions.
There is a relatively stable list of For the full year 2013, Capitas revenue competitors that operate in the customer was split 52% private and 48% public and BPM space across our 11 target sector.
Having been formed initially in markets.
We have deliberately diversified the public sector, over time we would our markets so that we can maintain a expect Capitas revenues to continue to high level of selectivity when assessing accelerate in the private sector to reflect sales opportunities and also to enable us the respective market opportunity.
to shift our focus at times when any one market becomes quieter.
As we have grown and expanded into new market areas, we are inevitably seeing some different competitors who have historically operated in these markets, for example, in the justice and emergency services, health and in the retail, utilities and telecoms sectors.
Expanding our market reach Pre Post Post 2000 2000 2010 Local government Financial services Retail, telecoms and utilities Central government Life and pensions Justice and emergency services Education Other private sector Insurance Health Defence Local government Financial services Central government Life and pensions Education Other private sector Insurance Health Local government Central government Education Insurance 18 | Capita plc Delivering sustainable, profitable growth Over the last two years, we have seen We can generally categorise major Evolution of the BPM market some interesting developments in the opportunities into four broad areas, Demographic, legislative and technology way in which we are collaborating with increasing in scale and complexity as we changes are creating disruption to organisations to shape real partnership move through the matrix shown below.
the traditional relationships between models that help them deliver services consumers, citizens and service providers.
We are uniquely positioned to provide which are appropriate over the long To meet this rapid pace of social and differentiated service models which are term.
A significant trend is the evolution economic change, organisations more compelling to clients and which of transformational partnering where must decide how best to allocate increase our chances of winning new we are designing and creating delivery resources to optimise and adapt their business.
We see our role as helping models which add value to our private frontline and back office activities.
clients find a clear pathway through the and public sector clients beyond the Outsourcing is increasingly seen as a key challenges they face and designing and traditional offering of improved service at enabler to facilitate this change, not only providing the best possible services for reduced cost.
Additional client objectives in running a cost efficient operating model them and their stakeholders.
Our ability now often include revenue growth, but also in adapting and transforming to offer and bid for such a wide range economic regeneration and job creation.
services to meet the changing needs and and complexity of contracts is a result Contracts are typically underpinned by a behaviours of people.
of the continual development of our known revenue profile and additionally capability and scale, which helps us structured to support shared growth to move into new sectors and gain and other targets that benefit both the competitive advantage.
Evolving client relationships Transformational partnering Transformational outsourcing Multi service mid-sized contracts Single service platforms Complexity Clients benefit from Capitas Support demand, transformation, Reduce costs Increase revenue Client shared platforms, economies of cost saving Improve services Support economic regeneration objectives scale and reduced admin costs.
Provide flexibility, introduce Improve outcomes.
Improve services innovation, mitigate change risk.
Delivered via Capita on offshore Average 5-10 year contract length BPM contract Long term partnership Relationship platforms and increasingly longer Fixed term 10 years New commercial model mutual structure Annual roll-over, high repeat On offshore delivery Total contract value fixed Contracted revenue plus rate or secured under medium Vanilla products and increasingly Risk transfer evergreen concession contracts of 2-5 years more complex, added value services KPI driven.
Specialist SMEs subcontractors Increasingly secured via Fixed variable pricing.
frameworks in the public sector.
Flexibility and control Expertise in multiple workstreams Financial stability Partnering behaviour Client Specific expertise Benefit from cost effective Scale economics Deep market knowledge selection Benefit from cost efficient shared platforms Referenceability Financial stability criteria shared platforms Expertise in customer analytics.
Best of breed technology and infrastructure.
Scale Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 19 We continually look for changes in sector In the private sector, commercial Central government has reduced spend dynamics across our 11 target markets organisations are facing pressure to through austerity measures but is still which may create a catalyst for potential maintain their competitive position having to seek further transformation outsourcing opportunities.
Our newer by driving down operational costs and change to meet the growing needs of market sectors customer management, introducing new products and services the public sector within ever severe cost defence, justice and emergency services to market faster, while maintaining high constraints.
Outsourcing in all its various are showing significant potential alongside levels of customer service and retention.
models is being used to address these our more established market sectors.
Changing legislation, for example in the challenges, from traditional outsourcing financial services, utilities and banking to transformational partnerships.
The rapid increase in digital sectors, is stimulating increased interest in We anticipate that there may be a pause communication, including the rise in use our customer and administration services in central government new outsourcing of mobile technology and social media, and we are constantly evolving our initiatives during the election period in is having a significant impact on the propositions to ensure that we can meet 2015, but we are currently not seeing any behaviour and expectations of people and these changing requirements.
slowdown in bidding activity across our consequently our public and private sector key government departments of interest.
clients need to adapt the way in which The public sector is facing many similar Local government activity is expected to they communicate and deliver services.
dynamics with ongoing pressure to reduce progress steadily as normal through the Alongside our existing skills, we have budgets while maintaining and adapting election period.
enhanced our digital, behavioural science, frontline services.
Demographic changes, analytics and change management including the ageing population and an capabilities both internally and through increasing number of children in care, are acquisitions to address this need and help also creating some specific challenges for organisations across both sectors to better public sector organisations, particularly meet their customers needs and keep local, health and education authorities and them at the forefront of their markets.
they are increasingly looking to the private sector to find new service solutions.
Defence 3 1 1 Retail, utilities and telecoms previously reported under other private sector.
20 | Capita plc Delivering sustainable, profitable growth We are seeing a high level of activity in One of the key trends in the education Our market drivers the central government market where market is schools moving outside of local In addition to the general trends detailed contracting to private sector partners authority control, giving them autonomy on page 19, there are specific drivers is seen as a well established route to in selecting suppliers for educational and requirements unique to each of our improving value for money and reforming support services.
The Government Government will provide funding for up to is expected to save around 1bn in 180 new free schools, 20 studio schools 20152016 by centralising the purchase and 20 university technical colleges a 2 of common goods and services through year to 2015 16.
This is coupled with 1 the Crown Commercial Service and we continued financial pressure, for example, would also expect to see an increase in the schools budget is due to be cut by a 3 pan-government deals managed by the further 1% in 2015 16, in real terms and Cabinet Office.
reforms to higher education funding are expected to generate annual savings of Local government funding is set to fall by 1 3bn by 2014 15. a further 9% from 25.6bn in 2014 15 to 1 23.5bn in 2015 16 and local authorities Financial pressure in the health sector are therefore becoming increasingly continues to grow with both NHS commercial and open to exploring new organisations and local authorities service delivery models.
The Government seeking efficiency savings.
There is broad is due to allocate 3.8bn into a pooled consensus that structural changes are budget for health and social care services necessary to fundamentally transform 1 to work more closely in local areas and the way in which services are delivered.
this may create demand for specialist The NHS is subject to a quality, skills to support these new challenges.
innovation, productivity, prevention Another trend is the establishment of QIPP programme target of 20bn 4 commissioning councils which are productivity savings by 2014 15 and the focused on insight-driven service strategy extension of the Nicholson Challenge and which tend to be neutral regarding efficiency drive from 20bn by 2014 delivery mechanism.
Additionally, moves by clinical commissioning groups CCGs to procure prime contractors to integrate services for entire clinical pathways and the increased influence that GPs and other clinicians have regarding commissioning decisions for their patients, are driving health providers to look at alternative delivery models.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 21 Police and crime commissioners face the Life and pensions is an increasingly price The retail, utilities and telecoms market dual requirements of increasing police competitive market with aggregators and sector is a highly active area for Capita visibility and reducing costs, with UK direct to customer propositions playing with a number of our major sales wins in police forces required to achieve savings a significant role.
Providers are focused 2013 coming from this sector.
The Independent on growth opportunities and seeking a three sectors, changes in the way in Police Commission has recommended the safe pair of hands for legacy and complex which customers are accessing services is development of a national procurement business.
Firms are seeking guidance on creating significant operational challenges strategy co-ordinated jointly by the recent regulatory developments and for providers.
In retail, increasing Ministry of Justice and Home Office.
how to mitigate the costs of compliance competition from online stores is driving In this context, we see significant potential including the Retail Distribution change in the market with internet sales for collaboration between justice and Review and the EU Gender Directive.
now representing 10% of the market.
emergency services providers and Automatic enrolment into workplace There is also increased recognition that the opportunity to share merge back pension schemes is also increasing costs effective, proactive outbound customer office functions.
There is also increasing for providers which they will look to offset service reduces inbound contact demand for services under the integration through reductions elsewhere.
and management SIAM framework, For utilities, increasing regulation and The highly competitive insurance replacing traditional ICT managed service compliance including the impact of smart industry is demanding providers to bids in some sectors such as central metering is driving the need to improve move swiftly in line with changes in government, local government, justice, both internal efficiency and customer customer behaviour and market trends.
In telecoms, there has been The complex and rapidly evolving a seismic shift in demand and delivery In the defence market, the Ministry of regulatory landscape means that insurers models to meet changing customer Defence MOD plans to upgrade HR, are increasingly focused on improving behaviours.
Providers are recognising that pay, finance and procurement systems by back-office efficiency.
The outsourcing integrated applications and data increase March 2015 and merge its contracting, of transactional functions, such as claims the ability to up-sell and cross-sell purchasing, and finance systems during handling, to specialist third-parties to customers.
The MOD is facing further enables insurers to focus on the delivery of cuts in its core budget for 2013-15 and higher-value services.
Generally across the rest of the private is exploring the role of private sector sector, we are seeing greater emphasis The Banking Reform Bill due to come into organisations to introduce best practice, on customer experience and the role force in early 2014 is likely to significantly drive down costs and improve efficiency.
of digital and social media in improving increase compliance costs for the wider and linking existing channels.
There is a financial services industry, specifically focus on customer retention, with many investment and retail banks.
There is organisations looking to specialist third the potential for outsourcing to play a party providers to deliver improvements role in helping organisations to improve in services.
Analytics are playing operational efficiency and reduce an increasingly vital role in helping overheads.
Retail banks are focusing on organisations employ their resources quality of customer service as a means more effectively and supporting customer of retention and as a differentiator retention and sales.
Recent IT system failures highlight the reliance on outdated legacy technology at a time when online and mobile banking is increasingly important.
