Group and Parent Company Accounting Policies Basis of Accounting other comprehensive income.
IFRS 9 has not yet The consolidated financial statements of the Group been endorsed by the European Union.
and Company have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, IFRIC Other future developments include the International Interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act Accounting Standards Board IASB undertaking a 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
comprehensive review of existing IFRS.
The IASB also The Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom.
plans to issue new standards on leasing, the presentation of other comprehensive income and The following standards and amendments to existing revenue recognition.
The Group will consider the standards have been published and are mandatory for financial impact of these new standards as they are the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after finalised.
The Group has decided not to early adopt in the current year The financial statements have been prepared on a accounts: going concern basis and under the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial Endorsed: instruments including derivatives and investment IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements properties held at fair value through profit and loss.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements The principal accounting policies adopted are set out IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities below.
Where the presentational guidance set out in IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP, IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies, Ventures issued by the Association of Investment Companies Not yet endorsed: AIC in January 2009 is consistent with the IFRS 1 Amendment First-time adoption of IFRS requirements of IFRS, the Directors have sought to IFRS 9 Financial instruments classification and prepare the financial statements on a basis which measurement complies with the recommendations of the SORP.
Comparatives are made up for the nine month period Accounting policies have been consistently applied to 31 December 2012 and therefore may not be other than where new policies have been adopted.
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of Basis of Consolidation these standards and interpretations will have a The consolidated financial statements incorporate the material impact on the financial statements in the financial statements of the Company and entities period of initial application, except for IFRS 9, controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up Financial instruments: classification and to 31 December each year.
This is the first part of a new standard on classification and measurement of financial Investments in subsidiaries in the financial instruments that will replace IAS 39.
IFRS 9 has three statements of the Parent are carried at cost less any measurement categories: amortised cost: fair value provision for impairment made in accordance with through profit and loss: and fair value through other IAS 36, Impairment of assets.
Impairment tests are comprehensive income.
All equity instruments are carried out twice each year concurrent with the still required to be measured at fair value, but fair Groups principal reporting dates.
value movements can be taken to profit or loss or The financial statements of the subsidiaries are other comprehensive income based on an irrevocable prepared at the same reporting date using consistent one-off, instrument by instrument designation.
Control is achieved where the instrument is valued at amortised cost only if the Company has the power to govern the financial and entity is holding it to collect contractual cash flows operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain and the cash flows represent principal and interest: benefits from its activities.
All intra-group otherwise it is at fair value through profit or loss.
transactions, balances, income and expenses are Accordingly, investments classified as available for eliminated on consolidation.
sale in the consolidated balance sheet will have to be classified as financial assets at fair value through Investments in associates are held at fair value as profit or loss or for equities only at fair value through allowed by IAS 28.
56 Report and Accounts December 2013 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Group and Parent Company Accounting Policies Presentation of Income Statement Expenses are allocated to capital where a direct In order to reflect better the activities of an connection with the maintenance or enhancement investment trust company, and in accordance with of the value of the investments can be guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary demonstrated.
Expenses are allocated to revenue information which analyses the consolidated income where there is an indirect connection: statement between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented within the consolidated Investment management fees are considered to income statement and the consolidated statement of be indirect costs and are therefore allocated to comprehensive income.
Additionally, the net revenue revenue.
Performance fees are allocated to capital return is the measure the Directors believe as they arise as a result of the capital performance appropriate in assessing the Companys compliance of the relevant investment portfolio: with certain requirements set out in Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The Group has in place certain incentive arrangements whereby individuals receive Income payments based on investment performance and Dividend income from investments is recognised or share price growth.
The cost of these when the right to receive payment has been arrangements derives principally from the capital established and this is normally the ex-dividend date.
performance and therefore the Directors consider Provision is made for any dividends not expected to it appropriate to allocate such costs to capital: be received.
Expenses which are incidental to the disposal of Where the Group has elected to receive dividends in an investment are deducted from the disposal the form of additional shares rather than cash, the proceeds of the investment: and amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
The excess, if any, in the value of shares Costs incurred in connection with aborted portfolio received over the amount of the cash dividend investment transactions are also allocated to foregone is recognised as a capital gain in the capital.
The following are presented as capital items: UK dividend income is recorded at the amount receivable without any attributable tax credit.
gains and losses on the realisation of investments: Overseas dividend income is shown net of withholding tax under Investment Income.
increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held at the year-end: Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by realised and unrealised gains and losses on reference to the principal outstanding at the effective transactions undertaken to hedge an exposure of a interest rate applicable, which is the rate that capital nature discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net realised and unrealised exchange differences of a carrying amount.
capital nature: Income from investment properties is accounted for expenses, together with the related taxation on an accruals basis as it falls due.
effect, allocated to capital in accordance with the above policies: and Allocation between Capital and Revenue In respect of the analysis between revenue and the cost of purchasing ordinary shares for capital items presented within the consolidated cancellation.
income statement, the statement of comprehensive income and the statement of changes in equity, all Finance Costs expenses and finance costs, which are accounted for Finance costs are accounted for on a simple accruals on an accruals basis, have been presented as revenue basis and are settled at the end of each relevant items except those items listed below: drawing period.
Since these costs are considered to be an indirect cost of maintaining the value of the investments they are allocated in full to revenue.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2013 57 Group and Parent Company Accounting Policies Foreign Currencies The individual financial statements of each Group entity The carrying amount of the deferred tax asset is are presented in the currency of the primary economic reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to environment in which the entity operates, i. e. its the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient functional currency.
For the purpose of the consolidated taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of financial statements, the results and financial position the asset to be recovered.
of each entity are expressed in Pounds Sterling Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are Sterling which is the functional currency of the expected to apply in the period when the liability is Company, and the presentation currency of the Group.
settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is Transactions in currencies other than Sterling are charged or credited in the consolidated income recorded at the rate of exchange prevailing on the dates statement, except when it relates to items charged or of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred monetary items and non-monetary assets and liabilities tax is also dealt with in equity.
that are fair valued and are denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rates prevailing on Investments the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on Investments are recognised and derecognised on the re-translation are included in net profit or loss for the trade date where a purchase or sale is made under a year in respect of those investments which are contract whose terms require delivery within the classified as fair value through profit or loss.
All foreign timeframe established by the market concerned, and exchange gains and losses, except those arising from are initially measured at fair value.
the translation of foreign subsidiaries, are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
In accordance with All of the Groups investments are defined by IFRS as IAS 21, a foreign currency translation reserve has been investments designated at fair value through profit or established in respect of the exchange movements loss FVPL but are also described in these financial arising on consolidation since 31 March 2004. statements as investments held at fair value.
Taxation All investments are designated upon initial recognition The tax expense represents the sum of the tax as held at fair value and, except as noted below, are currently payable and deferred tax.
measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
Fair value is either the bid price or the last traded The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for price, depending on the convention of the exchange the year.
Taxable profit differs from profit before tax on which the investment is quoted.
Investments in as reported in the consolidated income statement externally managed funds are valued at the closing because it excludes items of income or expense that price, the bid price or the single price as appropriate, are taxable or deductible in other years and it further released by the relevant investment manager.
excludes items that are not subject to tax or are not Changes in the fair value of all investments held at deductible for tax purposes.
The Groups liability for fair value are recognised in the consolidated income current tax is calculated using tax rates that have statement as a capital item.
On disposal, realised been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance gains and losses are also recognised in the sheet date.
Transaction costs, including bid-offer spreads, are included within gains Investment trusts which have approval under Section or losses on investments held at fair value.
1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 are not subject to tax on capital gains.
In view of the Companys Foreign exchange gains and losses arising on status as an investment trust, and its intention to investments held at fair value are included within the continue meeting the conditions required to maintain changes in their fair values.
approval for the foreseeable future, the Company has not provided current or deferred tax on any capital gains or losses arising on the revaluation or disposal of investments.
58 Report and Accounts December 2013 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Group and Parent Company Accounting Policies Provisions In respect of unquoted instruments also referred to A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when as private investments, or where the market for a the Group has a constructive or legal obligation as a financial instrument is not active, fair value is result of a past event and it is probable that an established by using valuation techniques, which may outflow of economic benefits will be required to include using recent arms length market transactions settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, between knowledgeable, willing parties: the current provisions are determined by discounting the fair value of another instrument that is substantially expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that the same: and discounted cash flow analysis.
Where reflects current market assessments of the time there is a valuation technique commonly used by value of money and, where appropriate, the risks market participants to price the instrument and that specific to the liability.
technique has been demonstrated to provide reliable Share-based Payments estimates of prices obtained in actual market In accordance with IFRS 2, Share-based Payment, the transactions, that technique may also be utilised.
Group is required to reflect in its income statement and balance sheet the effects of share-based The gains and losses on financial assets designated at payment transactions.
The Group has two share fair value through profit or loss exclude any related settled incentive schemes, the AIS and the SAR Plan, interest income, dividend income and finance cost.
details of which are set out on pages 34 and 35 of the These items are disclosed separately in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Investment properties are measured initially at cost, Any bonus payments in excess of 150,000 awarded including related transaction costs.
After initial under the current AIS are deferred into shares, the recognition at cost, investment properties are carried cost of which is spread over the service period of two at their fair values based on the professional valuation years.
Under the amendments proposed to the AIS, made as of each reporting date.
Valuation surpluses 60% of the amount by which future bonus payments and deficits arising in the year are included in the exceed 100,000 will be deferred into shares, the income statement.
The gain or loss arising on the cost of which will be spread over a three-year period.
disposal of a property is determined as the difference The SAR Plan is an equity-settled scheme under IFRS between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount 2.
All awards are measured at the fair value at grant of the asset at the beginning of the year and is date using a trinomial option valuation model.
The recognised in the income statement.
cost is then recognised through the capital column of the income statement over the service period.
Cash at Bank Cash at bank in the balance sheet comprises cash Shares required to settle the estimated future balances and deposits held at call and short notice liabilities from grants or exercises under both with banks.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on schemes are purchased by an Employee Benefit Trust demand and which form an integral part of the EBT which is consolidated by the Group under SIC Groups cash management are included as a 12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
The cost component of cash and cash equivalents for the of own shares held at the end of the year by the EBT purposes of the cash flow statement.
are reflected in the Groups Own shares reserve on Cash Equivalents the consolidated balance sheet.
Short-term highly liquid investments with original Property, Plant And Equipment maturities of three months or less are also included Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost less as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the accumulated depreciation.
It is calculated by the Group purposes of the cash flow statement.
on a straight line basis by reference to original cost, estimated useful life and residual value.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
The period of estimated useful life for this purpose is between three and four years.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2013 59 Group and Parent Company Accounting Policies Pensions Derivative Financial Instruments JRCM, a wholly-owned subsidiary undertaking, is a Derivative financial instruments, including futures, participating employer in the Groups non-contributory options and other derivative instruments, are stated in funded, defined benefit retirement scheme, which is the balance sheet at fair value.
For other derivatives closed to new members and the assets of which are that are capital in nature, the associated change in held in a trustee administered fund.
value is presented as a capital item in the income statement.
The Group has adopted trade date The Group accounts for its defined benefit retirement accounting.
Accordingly, derivative financial scheme by reference to IAS 19, Employee Benefits.
instruments are recognised on the date the Group For the defined benefit retirement scheme, the cost enters into the relevant contract, and are of benefits accruing during the year in respect of derecognised on the date on which it commits to current and past service is charged to the income their sale.
statement and allocated to revenue.
The expected return on the schemes assets, and the increase in Dividends the present value of the schemes liabilities arising Interim and final dividends are recognised in the year in from the passage of time are also recognised in the which they are paid.
Actuarial gains and losses are Share Capital recognised in the statement of comprehensive Share capital is classified as Equity.
An actuarial valuation of the defined benefit retirement scheme is undertaken every three years Critical Accounting Assumptions and Judgements as at 1 January and is updated as at each principal The preparation of financial statements in conformity reporting date.
The valuation is carried out using the with IFRS requires the use of certain critical projected unit credit method of funding basis.
It also requires income statement also includes costs incurred in management to exercise its judgement in the process respect of defined contribution schemes, comprising of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas the contributions payable in the year.
requiring a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are Other Receivables Other Payables significant to the consolidated financial statements, Other receivables other payables do not carry any are set out below: interest, are short-term in nature and are stated at fair value.
UnquotedInvestments Unquoted investments are valued at managements Bank Borrowings best estimate of fair value in accordance with IFRS Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are having regard to International Private Equity and recorded initially at the proceeds received, net of Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines as recommended direct issue costs and subsequently at fair value.
by the British Venture Capital Association.
The Finance costs, including premiums payable on principles which the Group applies are set out on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are page 58.
The inputs into the valuation methodologies accounted for on an accruals basis in the income adopted include observable historical data such as statement using the effective interest method and earnings or cash flow as well as more subjective data are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to such as earnings forecasts or discount rates.
As a the extent that they are not settled in the year in result of this, the determination of fair value requires which they arise.
60 Report and Accounts December 2013 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Group and Parent Company Accounting Policies  The determination of the pension cost and the defined benefit obligation of the Groups defined benefit pension scheme depends on the selection of certain assumptions, which include the discount rate, inflation rate, salary growth and longevity.
Any changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying amount of the pension obligation.
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year: this is the interest rate that is used to calculate the present value of the estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the pension obligation.
Differences arising from actual experience or future changes in assumptions will be reflected in subsequent accounting periods.
DeferredTaxAsset Management judgement is required in determining the deferred tax assets and liabilities to be recognised in the financial statements.
In particular, judgement is used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should be recognised, with consideration given to the timing and level of future taxable profits.
Share-basedPayments The determination of the fair value of SAR grants was calculated using a trinomial option valuation model.
The assumptions applied by the model are set out in note 26.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2013 61
