NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the period from incorporation on 23 May 2013 to 31 December 2013 2.
Accounting policies continued b Derecognition of financial assets A financial asset in whole or in part is derecognised either: when the Company has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership: or when it has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards and when it no longer has control over the assets or a portion of the asset: or when the contractual right to receive cash flow has expired.
c Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Financial liabilities The Companys financial liabilities consist of financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
a Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost These include trade payables and other short-term monetary liabilities, which are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
b Derecognition of financial liabilities A financial liability in whole or in part is derecognised when the Company has extinguished its contractual obligations, it expires or is cancelled.
Any gain or loss on derecognition is taken to the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Equity The Companys Ordinary Shares are classified as equity and upon issuance the fair value of the consideration received is included in equity.
All transaction costs, including share issue costs which are otherwise chargeable to equity, have been borne by the Investment Manager.
In the event that the Investment Management Agreement terminates, it would become liable for those costs.
For further details please see Note 13.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
Finance income Interest income is recognised on a time apportioned basis using the effective interest method.
Expenses Expenses include legal, accounting, auditing and other fees.
They are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the period in which they are incurred on an accruals basis.
Segmental reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Board of Directors, as a whole.
The key measure of performance used by the Board to assess the Companys performance and to allocate resources is the total return on the Companys Net Asset Value, as calculated under IFRS, and therefore no reconciliation is required between the measure of profit or loss used by the Board and that contained in the Financial Statements.
