NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the period from incorporation on 23 May 2013 to 31 December 2013 14.
Related party transactions continued Eagle II On 13 December 2013, the Company committed $50 million, alongside $100 million from Fund V, into Eagle Energy Exploration, LLC, a Tulsa-based oil and gas company formed to pursue oil and gas exploration and production opportunities in the Mid-Continent region of the USA.
The Company has a right to commit a further $50 million, alongside $100 million from Fund V, in the future.
An initial drawdown of $989,009 was made on 18 December 2013 on this commitment.
Cornerstone Investors Each of the Cornerstone Investors has acquired an indirect economic interest in each of the General Partner and the Investment Manager depending on the size of their commitment and the total issue size, up to an aggregate maximum indirect economic interest of 20 per cent.
in each, for nominal consideration.
These interests entitle the Cornerstone Investors to participate in the economic returns generated by the General Partner, including from the Performance Allocation, and the Investment Manager, which receives the Management Fee.
Each Cornerstone Investor has agreed with the Company and the Joint Bookrunners not to dispose of its Ordinary Shares for a specified period from Admission, subject to certain exclusions as described in paragraph 7.8 of Part VIII Additional information of this Prospectus.
The subscriptions by each of the Cornerstone Investors and REL Coinvestment, LP will be subject to lock-up restrictions for the following specified periods from Admission: in the case of AKRC, Hunt, Casita and McNair, 12 months: in the case of REL Coinvestment, LP, 2 years: and in the case of KFI, the later of the first anniversary of Admission and the date of payment for the second tranche of 5 million Ordinary Shares being made in full which will become payable on or before the second anniversary of Admission.
Financial risk management Financial risk management objectives The Companys investing activities, through its investment in the Partnership, intentionally expose it to various types of risks that are associated with the underlying investee companies of the Partnership.
The Company makes the investment in order to generate returns in accordance with its investment policy and objectives.
The most important types of financial risks to which the Company is exposed are market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the determination of the Companys risk management and sets policy to manage that risk at an acceptable level to achieve those objectives.
The policy and process for measuring and mitigating each of the main risks are described below.
The Investment Manager and the Administrator provide advice to the Company which allows it to monitor and manage financial risks relating to its operations through internal risk reports which analyse exposures by degree and magnitude of risks.
The Investment Manager and the Administrator report to the Board on a quarterly basis.
Categories of financial instruments 2013 $000 Financial assets Investment at fair value through profit or loss: Investment in the Partnership 1,130,051 Loans and receivables: Cash and cash equivalents 11,805 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities: Trade and other payables 1,132 Capital risk management The Company manages its capital to ensure that the Company will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the capital return to shareholders.
The capital structure of the Company consists of investment in the Partnership, cash and issued share capital and retained earnings.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Company may buy back shares or issue new shares.
There are no external capital requirements imposed on the Company.
During the period ended 31 December 2013, the Company had no borrowings other than trade and other payables.
The Company had sufficient cash and cash equivalents to pay these as they fell due.
The Companys investment policy is set out on pages 2 to 4 of the annual report.
Market risk Market risk includes price risk, foreign currency risk and interest rate risk.
a Price risk The underlying investments held by the Partnership present a potential risk of loss of capital to the Partnership and hence to the Company.
The Company invests through the Partnership.
Price risk arises from uncertainty about future prices of underlying financial investments held by the Partnership.
The Partnership is exposed to a variety of risks which may have an impact on the carrying value of the Companys investment in the Partnership.
The Partnerships risk factors are set out in a i to a iii below.
i Not actively traded The Partnerships investments are not traded in an active market but are indirectly exposed to market price risk arising from uncertainties about future values of the investments held see Note 7.
The underlying investments of the Partnership vary as to industry sub-sector, geographic distribution of operations and size, all of which may impact the susceptibility of their valuation to uncertainty.
This risk is managed by an investment strategy that diversifies the investments in terms of geography, financing stage or industry and through careful selection of investments within the specified limits of the investment policy.
The investments are monitored on a regular basis by the Investment Manager.
ii Concentration Concentration in an investment portfolio can have opposing effects on the credit risk of a portfolio.
A low number of investments in a portfolio, or high concentration, reduces risk due to better knowledge and information whilst a higher portfolio concentration in a certain sector of: industry, geographic distribution of operations or size increases sector concentration and the risk of the portfolio.
Conversely a high number of investments and lower concentration can reduce the credit risk of the portfolio but may limit availability of resources and flexibility.
The Company, through the Partnership, intends to invest in the global energy sector, with a particular focus on businesses that engage in oil and gas exploration and production and midstream investments in that sector.
This means that the Company will be exposed to the concentration risk of only making investments in the global energy sector, which concentration risk may further relate to sub-sector, geography, the relative size of an investment or other factors.
Whilst the Company is subject to the investment and diversification restrictions in its investment policy, within those limits, material concentrations of investments may still arise.
The Board and the Investment Manager monitor the concentration of the investment in the Partnership on a quarterly basis to ensure compliance with the investment policy as set out on pages 2 to 4. iii Liquidity The Companys underlying investments through the Partnership are dynamic in nature.
The Partnership will maintain flexibility in funding by keeping sufficient liquidity in cash and cash equivalents which may be invested on a temporary basis in line with the cash management policy as agreed by the Board from time to time.
of the Partnerships financial assets were U. S. treasury bills and cash balances held on deposit with several, A or higher rated, banks.
All of these assets have maturities of less than one year.. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the period from incorporation on 23 May 2013 to 31 December 2013 15.
Financial risk management continued b Foreign currency risk The Company has exposure to foreign currency risk due to the payment of some expenses in Pounds Sterling.
Consequently, the Company is exposed to risks that the exchange rate of its currency relative to other foreign currencies may change in a manner that has an adverse effect on the value of that portion of the Companys assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U. S. Dollar.
As detailed in Note 12, the Company will bear the foreign exchange risk on the 50 million second tranche of the KFI share issue, which will be the movement in the exchange rate between the admission date and when the capital is received.
The following table sets out, in U. S. Dollar, the Companys total exposure to foreign currency risk and the net exposure to foreign currencies of the monetary assets and liabilities: $ Total ASSETS: $000 $000 $000 Non-current assets Investment in the Partnership 1,130,051 1,130,051 Total non-current assets 1,130,051 1,130,051 Current assets Debtors and prepayments 547 6 553 Cash and cash equivalents 4,319 7,486 11,805 Total current assets 4,866 7,492 12,358 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 150 982 1,132 Total current liabilities 150 982 1,132 Total net assets 1,134,767 6,510 1,141,277 The amounts due to affiliates as detailed in Note 11 have been excluded from this analysis as they are not financial instruments.
The Directors do not consider that the foreign currency exchange risk at the balance sheet date to be significant or material and therefore sensitivity analysis for the foreign currency risk has not been provided.
c Interest Rate Risk The Companys exposure to interest rate risk relates to the Companys cash and cash equivalents.
The Company is subject to risk due to fluctuations in the prevailing levels of market interest rates.
Any excess cash and cash equivalents are invested at short-term market interest rates.
As at the date of the statement of financial position the majority of the Companys cash and cash equivalents were held on interest bearing fixed deposit accounts.
The Company has no other interest-bearing assets or liabilities as at the reporting date.
As a consequence, the Company is only exposed to variable market interest rate risk.
Management does not expect any significant change in interest rates that would have a material impact on the financial performance of the Company in the near future, therefore sensitivity analysis for the interest rate risk has not been provided.
31 December 2013 $000 Fixed rate Cash and cash equivalents 7,486 Non-interest bearing Cash and cash equivalents 4,319 Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Liquidity risk Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors.
Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the Company may not be able to settle or meet its obligations on time or at a reasonable price.
The Company adopts a prudent approach to liquidity management and through the preparation of budgets and cash flow forecasts maintains sufficient cash reserves to meet its obligations.
Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that the counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Company.
The carrying value of the investment in the Partnership as at 31 December 2013 was $1,130 million.
Financial assets mainly consist of cash and cash equivalents and investments at fair value through profit or loss.
The Companys risk on liquid funds is reduced because it can only deposit monies with institutions with a minimum credit rating of single A.
The Company mitigates its credit risk exposure on its investment at fair value through profit or loss by the exercise of due diligence on the counterparties of the Partnership, its General Partner and the Investment Manager.
The investment risk is managed by an investment strategy that diversifies the investments in terms of financing stage, industry or time.
The investment objectives, policy and restrictions of the Company are set out on pages 2 to 4.
For so long as the Ordinary Shares are listed on the Official List, no material change may be made to the Companys investment policy other than with the prior approval of both the Shareholders and a majority of the independent directors of the Company, and otherwise in accordance with the Listing Rules.
The table below shows the material cash balances and the credit rating for the counterparties used at the period end date: 31 December 2013 Counterparty Location Rating $000 Royal Bank of Scotland International Limited Guernsey A 11,805 The Companys maximum exposure to loss of capital at the period end is shown below: Carrying Value and Maximum exposure 31 December 2013 $000 Investment at fair value through profit or loss: Limited partnership 1,130,051 Loans and receivables including cash and cash equivalents but excluding prepayments 11,805 Gearing As at the date of these Financial Statements the Company itself has no gearing, however, the Partnership may have indirect gearing through the operations of the underlying investee companies.
