Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements.
For management purposes, the Company is organised into one main operating segment, which invests in one limited partnership.
All of the Companys income is derived from within Guernsey and the Cayman Islands.
All of the Companys non-current assets are located in the Cayman Islands.
Due to the Companys nature, it has no customers.
Critical accounting judgement and estimation uncertainty Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of Financial Statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The area involving a high degree of judgement or complexity or area where assumptions and estimates are significant to the Financial Statements has been identified as the risk of misstatement of the investment in the Partnership in future periods see Note 7.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
The Company makes its investments through the Partnership in which it is the sole limited partner.
The Board has assessed whether the Company has all the elements of control as prescribed by IFRS 10 in relation to the Companys investment in the Partnership and has concluded that although the Company is the sole limited partner it does not control the Partnership but instead has significant influence resulting in its classification as an investment in associate.
The Boards determination that the Companys investment in the Partnership is an associate investment involves a degree of judgement due to the complexity within the wider structure of the Company, the Partnership and the Investment Undertakings see Note 2: Financial assets a i..
The Boards determination that no discount or premium should be applied to the net asset value of the Partnership involves a degree of judgement due to the nature of the Partnerships investments and other assets and liabilities see Note 2: Financial assets a iii..
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
Taxation The Company is exempt from taxation in Guernsey under the provisions of the Income Tax Exempt Bodies Guernsey Ordinance, 2008 and is charged an annual exemption fee of 600.
The Company has made an election to, and currently expects to conduct its activities so as to be treated as a partnership for U. S. federal income tax purposes.
Therefore, the Company expects that it generally will not be liable for U. S. federal income taxes.
Instead, each of the Companys shareholders who are liable to U. S. taxes will take into account its respective share of the Companys items of income, gain, loss and deduction in computing its U. S. federal income tax liability as if such shareholder had earned such income directly, even if no cash distributions are made to the shareholder.
The Cayman Islands at present impose no taxes on profit, income, capital gains or appreciations in value of the Partnership.
There are also currently no taxes imposed in the Cayman Islands by withholding or otherwise on the Company as a limited partner of the Partnership on profit, income, capital gains or appreciations in respect of its partnership interest nor any taxes on the Company as a limited partner of the Partnership in the nature of estate duty, inheritance or capital transfer tax.
Local taxes may apply at the jurisdictional level on profits arising in operating entity investments.
Further withholding taxes may apply on distributions from such operating entity investments.
Based upon the current commitments and investments in Liberty II and Eagle II, the future U. S. tax liability on profits is expected to be in the range of 35 to 41.5 per cent.
