NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the period from incorporation on 23 May 2013 to 31 December 2013 6.
Fair value The level in the fair value hierarchy within which the financial assets or financial liabilities are categorised is determined on the basis of the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are classified in their entirety into only one of the three levels.
The fair value hierarchy has the following levels: Level 1 quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the assets or liabilities, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : Level 3 inputs for the assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
The Companys only financial instrument carried at fair value is its investment in the Partnership which has been classified within Level 3 as it has unobservable inputs and is not traded.
Amounts classified under Level 3 for the period are $1,130 million.
Transfers during the period There have been no transfers between levels.
Due to the nature of the investments, they are always expected to be classified under Level 3.
Valuation techniques The value of the Companys investment in the Partnership is based on the value of the Companys limited partner capital account within the Partnership.
This is based on the components within the Partnership, principally the value of the Partnerships investments in addition to cash and U. S. treasury bills held.
Any fluctuation in the value of the Partnerships investments in addition to cash and U. S. treasury bills held will directly impact on the value of the Companys investment in the Partnership.
In measuring this fair value, the net asset value of the Partnership is adjusted, as necessary, to reflect liquidity, future commitments, and other specific factors of the fund and fund manager.
When valuing the underlying investee companies, the Investment Manager reviews information provided by the underlying investee companies and other business partners and applies IPEV methodologies, to estimate a fair value as at the date of the statement of financial position.
Initially, acquisitions are valued at price of recent investment.
Subsequently, and as appropriate, the Investment Manager values the investments using common industry valuation techniques, including comparable public market valuation, comparable merger and acquisition transaction valuation, and discounted cash flow valuation.
For early stage private investments, Riverstones investment due diligence process includes assumptions about short-term financial results in determining the appropriate purchase price for the investment.
The techniques used in determining the fair value of the Companys investments through the Partnership are selected on an investment by investment basis so as to maximise the use of market based observable inputs.
The Board reviews and considers the fair value arrived at by the Investment Manager before incorporating into the fair value of the Partnership.
The variety of valuation bases adopted, quality of management information provided by the underlying investee companies and the lack of liquid markets for the investments mean that there are inherent difficulties in determining the fair value of these investments that cannot be eliminated.
Therefore the amounts realised on the sale of investments may differ from the fair values reflected in these Financial Statements and the differences may be significant.
Where price of recent investment is determined to be the most appropriate methodology the transactional price will be that of the investment by the Partnership.
The Partnerships investment in Eagle II is carried at the price of recent investment due to the immaturity of the investment, therefore no sensitivity analysis has been prepared.
The Company approves the valuations performed by the Investment Manager and monitors the range of reasonably possible changes in significant observable inputs on a regular basis.
