Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the period from incorporation on 23 May 2013 to 31 December 2013 1.
General information Riverstone Energy Limited is a company limited by shares, which was incorporated on 23 May 2013 in Guernsey with an unlimited life and registered with the Commission as a Registered Closed-ended Collective Investment Scheme pursuant to the POI Law.
It has been listed on the London Stock Exchange since 29 October 2013.
The registered office of the Company is Heritage Hall, PO Box 225, Le Marchant Street, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 4HY, Channel Islands.
The Company makes its investments through the Partnership, a Cayman Islands registered exempted limited partnership, in which the Company is the sole limited partner.
The principal place of business of the Partnership is the Cayman Islands.
Both the Company and the Partnership are subject to the Investment Management Agreement with the Investment Manager, a company registered in the Cayman Islands.
The Partnership invests alongside Private Riverstone Funds in all Qualifying Investments in which the Private Riverstone Funds participate.
These funds are managed and advised by affiliates of the Investment Manager, and therefore all of these parallel investments are considered to be related party transactions.
Further detail of these investments is provided in Note 14.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation The Financial Statements for the period ended 31 December 2013 have been prepared in accordance with EU Adopted IFRSs and with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
The Company has early adopted the Investment Entity amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 which define investment entities and provide consolidation exemptions for them together with changed disclosure requirements as described below.
Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 The Investment Entities standard is a recently issued standard, and was endorsed by the EU on 20 November 2013, with an effective date of 1 January 2014.
The Company has early adopted this standard for the period from incorporation to 31 December 2013.
The standard introduced an exception to the principle that all subsidiaries shall be consolidated.
The amendments define an investment entity and require a parent entity that is an investment entity to measure its subsidiaries at fair value through profit or loss, in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, instead of consolidating those subsidiaries.
The Company meets the definition of an investment entity on the basis of the following criteria.
a the Company obtains funds from multiple investors for the purpose of providing those investors with investment management services: b the Company commits to its investors that its business purpose is to invest funds solely for returns from capital appreciation, investment income, or both: and c the Company measures and evaluates the performance of substantially all of its investments on a fair value basis.
To determine that the Company meets the definition of an investment entity, further consideration is given to the characteristics of an investment entity that are demonstrated by the Company.
