Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements.
On 29 October 2013, the Company issued 71,032,057 Ordinary Shares of no par value at 10 per Ordinary Share in an initial public offering.
Details of the issue were set out in the Prospectus dated 24 September 2013.
The Company has one class of Ordinary Shares.
The issued nominal value of the Ordinary Shares represents 100 per cent.
of the total issued nominal value of all share capital.
Under the Companys Articles of Incorporation, on a show of hands, each Shareholder present in person or by proxy has the right to one vote at general meetings.
On a poll, each Shareholder is entitled to one vote for every share held.
Shareholders are entitled to all dividends paid by the Company and, on a winding up, providing the Company has satisfied all of its liabilities, the shareholders are entitled to all of the surplus assets of the Company.
The Ordinary Shares have no right to fixed income.
KFI, one of the Cornerstone Investors in the Company, pays for and acquires its Ordinary Shares in two equal tranches of 50 million.
The first tranche was paid on Admission at which time 5 million Ordinary Shares were issued to KFI.
The second tranche will become payable upon the earlier of i such time as the Company has invested or committed 50 per cent.
of the aggregate net proceeds of the Issue, calculated using KFIs total subscription monies: and ii the second anniversary of Admission.
At this time, a further 5 million Ordinary Shares will be issued to KFI.
An upfront two year financing charge equal to 1.5 per cent.
of the unpaid subscription monies of 50 million, calculated on an annual basis, therefore equal to 1.5 million $2.5 million, was payable by KFI at the time the first tranche became due for payment shortly prior to Admission.
If the second tranche becomes payable prior to the second anniversary of Admission, a portion of the financing charge will be repaid to KFI at the time the second tranche of subscription monies is paid such portion to be calculated on a pro rata basis by reference to the date the second tranche is payable.
The Company and KFI are party to an Off-Market Acquisition Agreement, dated 23 September 2013, pursuant to which, upon the failure by KFI to pay the second tranche of subscription monies when requested to do so by the Company in accordance with its Cornerstone Subscription Agreement, the Company may elect to force a sale of, or compulsorily repurchase, such Ordinary Shares as equates in value to the second tranche of subscription monies which is unpaid valued by reference to the then market price of the Ordinary Shares for nil consideration.
KFI has the right to pay the second tranche of subscription monies to the Company at any time after Admission, and prior to the due date for payment.
The share capital will be issued in Pounds Sterling and therefore the Company bears the foreign exchange risk of the transaction.
The terms of the Off-Market Acquisition Agreement, which is governed by Guernsey law, were approved by special resolution of the Company dated 23 September 2013.
Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities are potential future cash outflows where the likelihood of payment is considered more than remote but is not considered probable or cannot be measured reliably.
Formation and initial expenses The formation and initial expenses of the Company as at 31 December 2013 in the amount of $22.9 million have been paid in full by the Investment Manager.
However, if the Investment Management Agreement is terminated by the Company on or before the seventh anniversary of Admission other than for a material breach by the Investment Manager attributable to its fraud the Company will be required to reimburse the Investment Manager in respect of the formation and initial expenses of the Company and the costs and the expenses of the Issue to the full extent that such costs and expenses were borne by the Investment Manager.
At this time, the Directors consider the likelihood of the Investment Management Agreement being terminated by the Company to be remote.
