Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the period from incorporation on 23 May 2013 to 31 December 2013 1.
General information Riverstone Energy Limited is a company limited by shares, which was incorporated on 23 May 2013 in Guernsey with an unlimited life and registered with the Commission as a Registered Closed-ended Collective Investment Scheme pursuant to the POI Law.
It has been listed on the London Stock Exchange since 29 October 2013.
The registered office of the Company is Heritage Hall, PO Box 225, Le Marchant Street, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 4HY, Channel Islands.
The Company makes its investments through the Partnership, a Cayman Islands registered exempted limited partnership, in which the Company is the sole limited partner.
The principal place of business of the Partnership is the Cayman Islands.
Both the Company and the Partnership are subject to the Investment Management Agreement with the Investment Manager, a company registered in the Cayman Islands.
The Partnership invests alongside Private Riverstone Funds in all Qualifying Investments in which the Private Riverstone Funds participate.
These funds are managed and advised by affiliates of the Investment Manager, and therefore all of these parallel investments are considered to be related party transactions.
Further detail of these investments is provided in Note 14.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation The Financial Statements for the period ended 31 December 2013 have been prepared in accordance with EU Adopted IFRSs and with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
The Company has early adopted the Investment Entity amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 which define investment entities and provide consolidation exemptions for them together with changed disclosure requirements as described below.
Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 The Investment Entities standard is a recently issued standard, and was endorsed by the EU on 20 November 2013, with an effective date of 1 January 2014.
The Company has early adopted this standard for the period from incorporation to 31 December 2013.
The standard introduced an exception to the principle that all subsidiaries shall be consolidated.
The amendments define an investment entity and require a parent entity that is an investment entity to measure its subsidiaries at fair value through profit or loss, in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, instead of consolidating those subsidiaries.
The Company meets the definition of an investment entity on the basis of the following criteria.
a the Company obtains funds from multiple investors for the purpose of providing those investors with investment management services: b the Company commits to its investors that its business purpose is to invest funds solely for returns from capital appreciation, investment income, or both: and c the Company measures and evaluates the performance of substantially all of its investments on a fair value basis.
To determine that the Company meets the definition of an investment entity, further consideration is given to the characteristics of an investment entity that are demonstrated by the Company.. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the period from incorporation on 23 May 2013 to 31 December 2013 2.
Accounting policies continued The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
New and revised standards At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these Financial Statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IAS 32 Offsetting of Financial Instruments Intended to clarify existing application issues relating to the offsetting rules and reduce the level of diversity in current practice effective 1 January 2014.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments reflects the first phase of the IASBs work on the replacement of IAS 39 and applies to classification and measurement of financial assets as defined in IAS 39.
The Company is currently assessing the full impact of this standard and it is not practicable to quantify the effect as at the date of the publication of these Financial Statements.
The effective implementation date is not yet determined but is not expected to be earlier than 1 January 2017.
The Company has not early adopted any other standards, amendments and interpretations that are not effective.
Foreign currencies The functional currency of the Company is U. S. Dollars reflecting the primary economic environment in which the Company operates, that being the exploration and production and midstream energy sectors, where most transactions are expected to take place in U. S. Dollars.
The Company has chosen U. S. Dollars as its presentation currency for financial reporting purposes.
Transactions during the period, including purchases and sales of investments, income and expenses are translated into U. S. Dollars at the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than U. S. Dollars are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a currency other than U. S. Dollars are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a currency other than U. S. Dollars are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
Foreign currency transaction gains and losses on financial instruments classified as at fair value through profit or loss are included in profit or loss in the Statement of Comprehensive Income as part of the Net gain or loss on investments at fair value through profit or loss.
Exchange differences on other financial instruments are included in profit or loss in the Statement of Comprehensive Income as Net foreign exchange gains losses.
Going concern The Company has invested $1,130 million of the issue proceeds into the Partnership, retaining $11.8 million.
This amount is adequate to meet the Companys liabilities as they fall due over the going concern horizon.
The Partnership has $930.5 million of uncommitted cash and U. S. treasury bills and has no material going concern risk.
In light of the above the Directors are satisfied that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Companys Statement of Financial Position when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are only offset and the net amount reported in the statement of financial position and statement of comprehensive income when there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and the Company intends to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and liability simultaneously.
Financial assets When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The Company does not have any available for sale or held to maturity financial assets.
Purchases or sales of financial assets made by the Partnership that require delivery of assets within a time frame established by regulation or convention in the market place regular way purchases are recognised on the trade date, i. e. the date that the Partnership commits to purchase or sell the asset.
a Investments at fair value through profit or loss i.
Classification The Companys investment in the Partnership has been classified as an investment in associate as the Company has significant influence over the Partnership.
In accordance with the exemption within IAS 28 Investments in Associates, the Company does not account for its investment in the Partnership using the equity method.
Instead, the Company has elected to measure its investment in the Partnership at fair value through profit or loss.
Recognition Investments made by the Company in the Partnership are recognised on the day they are called.
Measurement Subsequent to initial recognition the investment in the Partnership is measured at fair value.
The Directors base the fair value of the investment in the Partnership on the value of its limited partnership capital account received from the General Partner.
The Investment Managers assessment of fair value of investments held by the Partnership, through Investment Undertakings, is determined in accordance with IPEV Valuation Guidelines.
It is the opinion of the Directors, that the IPEV valuation methodology used in deriving a fair value is generally not different from the fair value requirements of IFRS 13.
The Directors have considered whether a discount or premium should be applied to the net asset value of the Partnership.
In view of the recent investment in the Partnership and the nature of the Partnerships assets, being principally cash and U. S. treasury bills, no adjustment to the net asset value of the Partnership has been made see Note 4.
In measuring this fair value, the net asset value of the Partnership is adjusted, as necessary, to reflect liquidity, future commitments, and other specific factors of the Partnership and Investment Manager.
Fair value estimation A summary of the more relevant aspects of IPEV valuations is set out below: Marketable Listed Securities where an active market exists for the security, the value is stated at the bid price on the last trading day in the period.
Marketability discounts are not generally applied unless there is some contractual, governmental or other legally enforceable restriction preventing realisation at the reporting date.
Unlisted Investments are carried at such fair value as the Investment Manager considers appropriate given the performance of each investee company and after taking account of the effect of dilution, the exercise of ratchets, options or other incentive schemes.
Methodologies used in arriving at the fair value include prices of recent investment, earnings multiples, net assets, discounted cash flows analysis and industry valuation benchmarks.
Valuations may be derived by reference to observable valuation measures for comparable companies or transactions for example, multiplying a key performance metric of the investee company such as EBITDA by a relevant valuation multiple observed in the range of comparable companies or transactions, adjusted for differences between the investment and the referenced comparable.
Privately held investments may also be valued at cost for a period of time after an acquisition as the best indicator of fair value.
