Glossary of terms Arrears - the aggregate of contractual payments due on a debt that have Bull flattener - a flattening of the yield curve in which long term rates are not been met by the borrower.
A loan or other financial asset is said to be decreasing faster than short term rates.
'in arrears' when payments have not been made.
Buy-to-let mortgages - mortgages to customers for the purchase of Asset-backed commercial paper ABCP - a form of asset-backed residential property as a rental investment.
security generally issued by a commercial paper conduit.
Capital requirements regulation CRR - see CRD IV.
Asset-backed securities ABS - securities that represent interests in specific portfolios of assets.
They are issued by a structured entity Central counterparty CCP - an intermediary between a buyer and a following a securitisation.
The underlying portfolios commonly comprise seller generally a clearing house.
residential or commercial mortgages but can include any class of asset that yields predictable cash flows.
Payments on the securities depend Certificates of deposit CDs - bearer negotiable instruments primarily on the cash flows generated by the assets in the underlying pool acknowledging the receipt of a fixed term deposit at a specified interest and other rights designed to assure timely payment, such as guarantees rate.
Collateralised debt obligations, collateralised loan obligations, commercial mortgage backed securities Collateralised debt obligations CDOs - asset-backed securities for and residential mortgage backed securities are all types of ABS.
which the underlying asset portfolios are debt obligations: either bonds collateralised bond obligations or loans collateralised loan obligations Asset quality AQ band - probability of default banding for all or both.
The credit exposure underlying synthetic CDOs derives from counterparties on a scale of 1 to 10. credit default swaps.
The CDOs issued by an individual vehicle are usually divided in different tranches: senior tranches rated AAA, Assets under management - assets managed by the Group on behalf of mezzanine tranches AA to BB, and equity tranches unrated.
are borne first by the equity securities, next by the junior securities, and finally by the senior securities: junior tranches offer higher coupons Back-testing - statistical techniques that assess the performance of a interest payments to compensate for their increased risk.
model, and how that model would have performed had it been applied in the past.
Collateralised loan obligations CLOs - asset-backed securities for which the underlying asset portfolios are loans, often leveraged loans.
Basel II - the capital adequacy framework issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in June 2006 in the form of the International Collectively assessed loan impairment provisions - impairment loss Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards.
provisions in respect of impaired loans, such as credit cards or personal loans, that are below individual assessment thresholds.
Such provisions Basel III - in December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking are established on a portfolio basis, taking account of the level of arrears, Supervision issued final rules: Basel III: A global regulatory framework security, past loss experience, credit scores and defaults based on for more resilient banks and banking systems and Basel III: International portfolio trends.
framework for liquidity risk measurement, standards and monitoring.
Commercial mortgage backed securities CMBS - asset-backed Basis point - one hundredth of a per cent i. e. 0.01 per cent.
100 basis securities for which the underlying asset portfolios are loans secured on points is 1 per cent.
Used when quoting movements in interest rates or commercial real estate.
Commercial paper CP - unsecured obligations issued by a corporate or Bear steepener - a steepening of the yield curve caused by long-term a bank directly or secured obligations asset-backed CP, often issued rates increasing faster than short term rates.
through a commercial paper conduit, to fund working capital.
Maturities typically range from two to 270 days.
However, the depth and reliability of BIPRU - the prudential sourcebook for banks, building societies and some CP markets means that issuers can repeatedly roll over CP investment firms.
The part of the Financial Conduct Authority's FCA issuance and effectively achieve longer term funding.
CP is issued in a Handbook that sets out detailed prudential requirements for the banks wide range of denominations and can be either discounted or interestthat they regulate.
Commercial paper conduit - a structured entity that issues commercial paper and uses the proceeds to purchase or fund a pool of assets.
The commercial paper is secured on the assets and is redeemed either by further commercial paper issuance, repayment of assets or liquidity drawings.
549 Glossary of terms Commercial real estate - freehold and leasehold properties used for Credit derivative product company CDPC - a structured entity that sells business activities.
Commercial real estate includes office buildings, credit protection under credit default swaps or certain approved forms of industrial property, medical centres, hotels, retail stores, shopping insurance policies.
Sometimes they can also buy credit protection.
centres, agricultural land and buildings, warehouses, garages etc.
CDPCs are similar to monoline insurers.
However, unlike monoline insurers, they are not regulated as insurers.
Common Equity Tier 1 capital - the highest quality form of regulatory capital under Basel III comprising common shares issued and related Credit derivatives - contractual agreements that provide protection share premium, retained earnings and other reserves excluding the cash against a credit event on one or more reference entities or financial flow hedging reserve, less specified regulatory adjustments.
The nature of a credit event is established by the protection buyer and protection seller at the inception of a transaction, and such events Constant currency - reported results for the current reporting period are include bankruptcy, insolvency or failure to meet payment obligations compared to results for comparative periods retranslated at exchange when due.
The buyer of the credit derivative pays a periodic fee in return rates for the current period.
for a payment by the protection seller upon the occurrence, if any, of a credit event.
Credit derivatives include credit default swaps, total return Contractual maturity - the date in the terms of a financial instrument on swaps and credit swap options.
which the last payment or receipt under the contract is due for settlement.
Credit enhancements - techniques that improve the credit standing of Core Tier 1 capital - called-up share capital and eligible reserves plus financial obligations: generally those issued by a structured entity in a equity non-controlling interests, less intangible assets and other securitisation.
External credit enhancements include financial guarantees regulatory deductions.
and letters of credit from third-party providers.
Internal enhancements include excess spread - the difference between the interest rate received Core Tier 1 capital ratio - Core Tier 1 capital as a percentage of riskon the underlying portfolio and the coupon on the issued securities: and weighted assets.
 - on securitisation, the value of the underlying portfolio is greater than the securities issued.
Cost:income ratio - operating expenses as a percentage of total income.
Credit grade - a rating that represents an assessment of the Counterparty credit risk - the risk that a counterparty defaults before the creditworthiness of a customer.
It is a point on a scale representing the maturity of a derivative or sale and repurchase contract.
In contrast to probability of default of a customer.
non-counterparty credit risk, the exposure to counterparty credit risk varies by reference to a market factor e. g. interest rate, exchange rate, Credit risk - the risk of financial loss due to the failure of a customer, or asset price.
counterparty, to meet its obligation to settle outstanding amounts.
Coverage ratio - impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired Credit risk mitigation - reducing the credit risk of an exposure by loans.
application of techniques such as netting, collateral, guarantees and credit derivatives.
Covered bonds - debt securities backed by a portfolio of mortgages that are segregated from the issuer's other assets solely for the benefit of the Credit valuation adjustment CVA - the CVA is the difference between holders of the covered bonds.
the risk-free value of a portfolio of trades and its market value, taking into account the counterpartys risk of default.
It represents the market value CRD IV - the European Union has implemented the Basel III capital of counterparty credit risk, or an estimate of the adjustment to fair value proposals through the Capital Requirements Regulation CRR and the that a market participant would make to reflect the creditworthiness of its Capital Requirements Directive CRD, collectively known as CRD IV.
CRD IV was implemented on 1 January 2014.
The European Banking Authoritys technical standards are still to be finalised through adoption by Currency swap - an arrangement in which two parties exchange specific the European Commission and implemented within the UK.
principal amounts of different currencies at inception and subsequently interest payments on the principal amounts.
Often, one party will pay a Credit default swap CDS - a contract where the protection seller fixed rate of interest, while the other will pay a floating rate though there receives premium or interest-related payments in return for contracting to are also fixed-fixed and floating-floating arrangements.
At the maturity of make payments to the protection buyer upon a defined credit event in the swap, the principal amounts are usually re-exchanged.
relation to a reference financial asset or portfolio of financial assets.
Credit events usually include bankruptcy, payment default and rating Customer accounts - money deposited with the Group by counterparties downgrades.
other than banks and classified as liabilities.
They include demand, savings and time deposits: securities sold under repurchase agreements: and other short term deposits.
Deposits received from banks are classified as deposits by banks.
550 Glossary of terms Debit valuation adjustment DVA - an adjustment made by an entity to Economic capital - an internal measure of the capital required by the the valuation of OTC derivative liabilities to reflect within fair value the Group to support the risks to which it is exposed.
Economic profit - the difference between the return on shareholders Debt securities - transferable instruments creating or acknowledging funds and the cost of that capital.
Economic profit is usually expressed as indebtedness.
They include debentures, bonds, certificates of deposit, a percentage.
The holder of a debt security is typically entitled to the payment of principal and interest, together with other Effective interest rate method - the effective interest method is a method contractual rights under the terms of the issue, such as the right to of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability receive certain information.
Debt securities are generally issued for a or group of financial assets or liabilities and of allocating the interest fixed term and redeemable by the issuer at the end of that term.
Debt income or interest expense over the expected life of the asset or liability.
securities can be secured or unsecured.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash flows to the instrument's initial carrying amount.
Calculation of Debt securities in issue - unsubordinated debt securities issued by the the effective interest rate takes into account fees payable or receivable Group.
They include commercial paper, certificates of deposit, bonds and that are an integral part of the instrument's yield, premiums or discounts medium-term notes.
on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and transaction costs.
All contractual terms of a financial instrument are considered when Deferred tax asset - income taxes recoverable in future periods as a estimating future cash flows.
result of deductible temporary differences temporary differences between the accounting and tax base of an asset or liability that will result Encumbrance - a interest in an asset held by another party.
in tax deductible amounts in future periods and the carry-forward of tax Encumbrance usually impacts the transferability of the asset and can losses and unused tax credits.
restrict its free use until the encumbrance is removed.
Deferred tax liability - income taxes payable in future periods as a result Equity risk - the risk of changes in the market price of the equities or of taxable temporary differences temporary differences between the equity instruments arising from positions, either long or short, in equities accounting and tax base of an asset or liability that will result in taxable or equity-based financial instruments.
Eurozone - the 17 European Union countries that have adopted the euro: Defined benefit obligation - the present value of expected future Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, payments required to settle the obligations of a defined benefit plan Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Malta, The Netherlands, Portugal, Slovakia, resulting from employee service.
Defined benefit plan scheme - pension or other post-retirement benefit Expected loss EL - expected loss represents the anticipated loss on an plan other than a defined contribution plan.
It is determined by multiplying probability of default, loss given default and exposure at default and can be calculated Defined contribution plan scheme - pension or other post-retirement at individual, credit facility, customer or portfolio level.
benefit plan where the employer's obligation is limited to its contributions to the fund.
Exposure - a claim, contingent claim or position which carries a risk of financial loss.
Deposits by banks - money deposited with the Group by banks and recorded as liabilities.
They include money-market deposits, securities Exposure at default EAD - an estimate of the extent to which the bank sold under repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased and other will be exposed under a specific facility, in the event of the default of a short term deposits.
Deposits received from customers are recorded as counterparty.
FICO score - a credit score calculated using proprietary software Derivative - a contract or agreement whose value changes with changes developed by the Fair Isaac Corporation in the US from a consumer's in an underlying index such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit profile.
The scores range between 300 and 850 and are used in share prices or indices and which requires no initial investment or an credit decisions made by banks and other providers of credit.
initial investment that is smaller than would be required for other types of contracts with a similar response to market factors.
The principal types of Financial Conduct Authority FCA - the statutory body responsible for derivatives are: swaps, forwards, futures and options.
conduct of business regulation and supervision of UK authorised firms from 1 April 2013.
The FCA also has responsibility for the prudential Discontinued operation - a component of the Group that either has been regulation of firms that do not fall within the PRAs scope.
disposed of or is classified as held for sale.
A discontinued operation is either: a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations or part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations: or a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
551 Glossary of terms Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS - the UK's statutory Impairment allowance - see Loan impairment provisions.
fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial services firms.
It pays compensation if a firm is unable to meet its obligations.
The FSCS Impairment losses - a for impaired financial assets measured at funds compensation for customers by raising management expenses amortised cost, impairment losses - the difference between carrying levies and compensation levies on the financial services industry.
value and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the asset's original effective interest rate - are recognised in profit or loss First second lien - a lien is a charge such as a mortgage held by one and the carrying amount of the financial asset reduced by establishing a party, over property owned by a second party, as security for payment of provision allowance b for impaired available-for-sale financial assets, some debt, obligation, or duty owed by that second party.
The holder of a the cumulative loss that had been recognised directly in equity is first lien takes precedence over all other encumbrances on that property removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss as an impairment i. e. second and subsequent liens.
Forbearance - forbearance takes place when a concession is made on Individual liquidity guidance ILG - guidance from the PRA on a firm's the contractual terms of a loan in response to a customers financial required quantity of liquidity resources and funding profile.
Individually assessed loan impairment provisions - impairment loss Forward contract - a contract to buy or sell a specified amount of a provisions for individually significant impaired loans assessed on a casephysical or financial commodity, at an agreed price, at an agreed future by-case basis, taking into account the financial condition of the date.
counterparty and any guarantor and the realisable value of any collateral held.
Fully loaded Basel III basis - capital ratios based on the rules that will apply at the end of the Basel III transition period.
Interest rate swap - a contract under which two counterparties agree to exchange periodic interest payments on a predetermined monetary Futures contract - a contract which provides for the future delivery or principal, the notional amount.
acceptance of delivery of some type of financial instrument or commodity under terms established at the outset.
Futures differ from forward Interest spread - the difference between the gross yield and the interest contracts in that they are traded on recognised exchanges and rarely rate paid on average interest-bearing liabilities.
result in actual delivery: most contracts are closed out prior to maturity by acquisition of an offsetting position.
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP - the Groups own assessment, as part of Basel II requirements, of its risks, how it G10 - the Group of Ten comprises the eleven industrial countries intends to mitigate those risks and how much current and future capital is Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, necessary having considered other mitigating factors.
Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States that have agreed to participate in the International Monetary Funds IMFs Internal funding of trading business - the internal funding of the trading General Arrangements to Borrow.
book comprises net banking book financial liabilities that fund financial assets in the Groups trading portfolios.
Interest payable on these Government Sponsored Enterprises GSEs - a group of financial financial liabilities is charged to the trading book.
services corporations created by the US Congress.
Their function is to improve the efficiency of capital markets and to overcome statutory and International Accounting Standards Board IASB - the independent other market imperfections which otherwise prevent funds from moving standard-setting body of the IFRS Foundation.
Its members are easily from suppliers of funds to areas of high loan demand.
They include responsible for the development and publication of International Financial the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and the Federal National Reporting Standards IFRSs and for approving Interpretations of IFRS Mortgage Association.
as developed by the IFRS Interpretations Committee.
Gross yield - the interest rate earned on average interest-earning assets International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA master i. e. interest income divided by average interest-earning assets.
agreement - a standardised contract developed by ISDA for bilateral derivatives transactions.
The contract grants legal rights of set-off for Haircut - a downward adjustment to collateral value to reflect its nature, derivative transactions with the same counterparty.
any currency or maturity mismatches between a credit risk mitigant and the underlying exposure to which it is being applied.
Investment grade - generally represents a risk profile similar to a rating of BBBBaa3 or better, as defined by independent rating agencies.
Hedge funds - pooled investment vehicles that are not widely available to the public: their assets are managed by professional asset managers Key management - directors of RBSG and members of the Group who participate in the performance of the fund.
Impaired loans - all loans for which an impairment provision has been Latent loss provisions - loan impairment provisions held against established: for collectively assessed loans, impairment loss provisions impairments in the performing loan portfolio that have been incurred as a are not allocated to individual loans and the entire portfolio is included in result of events occurring before the balance sheet date but which have impaired loans.
not been identified as impaired at the balance sheet date.
552 Glossary of terms Level 1 - level 1 fair value measurements are derived from quoted prices Market risk - the risk of loss arising from fluctuations in interest rates, unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the credit spreads, foreign currency rates, equity prices, commodity prices entity can access at the measurement date.
and other risk-related factors such as market volatilities that may lead to a reduction in earnings, economic value or both.
Level 2 - level 2 fair value measurements use inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or Master netting agreement - an agreement between two counterparties liability, either directly or indirectly.
that have multiple derivative contracts with each other that provides for the net settlement of all contracts through a single payment, in a single Level 3 - level 3 fair value measurements use one or more unobservable currency, in the event of default on, or termination of, any one contract.
inputs for the asset or liability.
Medium term notes MTNs - debt securities usually with a maturity of five Leverage ratio - a measure prescribed under Basel III.
It is the ratio of tier to ten years, but the term may be less than one year or as long as 50 1 capital to total exposures.
Total exposures include on-balance sheet years.
They can be issued on a fixed or floating coupon basis or with an items, off-balance sheet items and derivatives, and generally follow the exotic coupon: with a fixed maturity date non-callable or with embedded accounting measure of exposure.
call or put options or early repayment triggers.
MTNs are generally issued as senior unsecured debt.
Leveraged finance - funding leveraged finance provided to a business resulting in an overall level of debt in relation to cash flow that exceeds Monoline insurers monolines - entities that specialise in providing credit that which would be considered usual for the business or for the industry protection against the notional and interest cash flows due to the holders in which it operates.
Leveraged finance is commonly employed to of debt instruments in the event of default.
This protection is typically in achieve a specific, often temporary, objective: to make an acquisition, to the form of derivatives such as credit default swaps.
effect a buy-out or to repurchase shares.
Mortgage-backed securities - asset-backed securities for which the Liquidity and funding risk - the risk that the Group is unable to meet its underlying asset portfolios are loans secured on property.
See financial liabilities when they fall due.
Residential mortgage backed securities and Commercial mortgage backed securities.
Liquidity coverage ratio LCR - the ratio of the stock of high quality liquid assets to expected net cash outflows over the following 30 days.
High Mortgage servicing rights - the rights of a mortgage servicer to collect quality liquid assets should be unencumbered, liquid in markets during a mortgage payments and forward them, after deducting a fee, to the time of stress and, ideally, central bank eligible.
Loan:deposit ratio - the ratio of loans and advances to customers net of Negative equity mortgages - mortgages where the value of the property provision for impairment losses and excluding reverse repurchase mortgaged is less than the outstanding balance on the loan.
agreements to customer deposits excluding repurchase agreements.
Net interest income - the difference between interest receivable on Loan impairment provisions - loan impairment provisions are established financial assets classified as loans and receivables or available-for-sale to recognise incurred impairment losses on a portfolio of loans classified and interest payable on financial liabilities carried at amortised cost.
as loans and receivables and carried at amortised cost.
It has three components: individually assessed loan impairment provisions, Net interest margin - net interest income as a percentage of average collectively assessed loan impairment provisions and latent loss interest-earning assets.
Net stable funding ratio NSFR - the ratio of available stable funding to Loan-to-value ratio - the amount of a secured loan as a percentage of the required stable funding over a one year time horizon, assuming a appraised value of the security e. g. the outstanding amount of a stressed scenario.
Available stable funding includes items such as equity mortgage loan as a percentage of the property's value.
capital, preferred stock with a maturity of over one year and liabilities with an assessed maturity of over one year.
London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR - the benchmark interest rate at which banks can borrow funds from other banks in the London interbank Non-performing loans - loans classified as Risk elements in lending and market.
They have a 100% probability of default and have been assigned an AQ10 internal credit grade.
Loss given default LGD - an estimate of the amount that will not be recovered by the Group in the event of default, plus the cost of debt Operational risk - the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed collection activities and the delay in cash recovery.
processes, people, systems or from external events.
553 Glossary of terms Option - an option is a contract that gives the holder the right but not the Probability of default PD - the likelihood that a customer will fail to make obligation to buy or sell a specified amount of the underlying physical or full and timely repayment of credit obligations over a one year time financial commodity, at a specific price, at an agreed date or over an horizon.
Options can be exchange-traded or traded over-thecounter.
Prudential Regulation Authority PRA - the statutory body responsible, from 1 April 2013, for the prudential supervision of banks, building Over-the-counter OTC derivatives - derivatives with tailored terms and societies, insurers and a small number of significant investment firms in conditions negotiated bilaterally, in contrast to exchange traded the UK.
The PRA is a subsidiary of the Bank of England.
derivatives that have standardised terms and conditions.
Regular way purchase or sale - a purchase or sale of a financial asset Own credit adjustment OCA - the effect of the Groups own credit under a contract whose terms require delivery of the asset within the time standing on the fair value of financial liabilities.
frame established generally by regulation or convention in the marketplace concerned.
Past due - a financial asset such as a loan is past due when the counterparty has failed to make a payment when contractually due.
Regulatory capital - the amount of capital that the Group holds, determined in accordance with rules established by the PRA for the Pillar 1 - the part of Basel II that sets out the process by which regulatory consolidated Group and by local regulators for individual Group capital requirements should be calculated for credit, market and companies.
Repurchase agreement Repo - see Sale and repurchase agreements.
Pillar 2 - the part of Basel II that sets out the process by which a bank should review its overall capital adequacy and the processes under which Residential mortgage - a loan to purchase a residential property where the supervisors evaluate how well financial institutions are assessing their the property forms collateral for the loan.
The borrower gives the lender a risks and take appropriate actions in response to the assessments.
lien against the property and the lender can foreclose on the property if the borrower does not repay the loan per the agreed terms.
Also known Pillar 3 - the part of Basel II that sets out the information banks must as a home loan.
disclose about their risks, the amount of capital required to absorb them, and their approach to risk management.
The aim is to strengthen market Residential mortgage backed securities RMBS - asset-backed discipline.
securities for which the underlying asset portfolios are residential mortgages.
Position risk requirement - a capital requirement applied to a position treated under BIPRU 7 Market risk as part of the calculation of the Retail loans - loans made to individuals rather than institutions.
The loans market risk capital requirement.
may be for car purchases, home purchases, medical care, home repair, holidays and other consumer uses.
Potential future exposure - is a measure of counterparty risk credit risk.
It is calculated by evaluating existing trades done against the possible Return on equity - profit attributable to ordinary and B shareholders market prices in future during the lifetime of the transactions.
divided by average shareholders equity as a percentage.
Potential problem loans PPL - loans for which an impairment event has Reverse repurchase agreement Reverse repo - see Sale and taken place but no impairment loss is expected.
This category is used for repurchase agreements.
advances which are not past due 90 days or revolving credit facilities where identification as 90 days overdue is not feasible.
Risk appetite - an expression of the maximum level of risk that the Group is prepared to accept to deliver its business objectives.
Private equity investments - equity investments in operating companies not quoted on a public exchange.
Capital for private equity investment is Risk asset ratio RAR - total regulatory capital as a percentage of riskraised from retail or institutional investors and used to fund investment weighted assets.
strategies such as leveraged buyouts, venture capital, growth capital, distressed investments and mezzanine capital.
Risk elements in lending REIL - impaired loans and accruing loans which are contractually overdue 90 days or more as to principal or interest.
554 Glossary of terms Risk-weighted assets RWAs - assets adjusted for their associated risks Stressed value-at-risk SVaR - a VaR measure using historical data from using weightings established in accordance with the Basel Capital Accord a one year period of stressed market conditions.
For the purposes of as implemented by the PRA.
Certain assets are not weighted but calculating regulatory SVaR, a time horizon of ten trading days is deducted from capital.
assumed at a confidence level of 99%.
refer to Value-at-risk definition below.
Sale and repurchase agreements - in a sale and repurchase agreement one party, the seller, sells a financial asset to another party, the buyer, at Structured credit portfolio SCP - a portfolio of certain of the Groups the same time the seller agrees to reacquire and the buyer to resell the illiquid assets - principally CDO super senior positions, negative basis asset at a later date.
From the seller's perspective such agreements are trades and monoline exposures - held within Non-Core division.
repurchase agreements repos and from the buyer's reverse repurchase agreements reverse repos.
Structured entity SE - an entity that has been designed such that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the Securitisation - a process by which assets or cash flows are transformed entity, for example when any voting rights relate to administrative tasks into transferable securities.
The underlying assets or cash flows are only and the relevant activities are directed by means of contractual transferred by the originator or an intermediary, typically an investment arrangements.
SEs are usually established for a specific, limited purpose, bank, to a structured entity which issues securities to investors.
Asset they do not carry out a business or trade and typically have no securitisations involve issuing debt securities asset-backed securities employees.
They take a variety of legal forms - trusts, partnerships and that are backed by the cash flows of income-generating assets ranging companies - and fulfil many different functions.
from credit card receivables to residential mortgage loans.
Structured notes - securities that pay a return linked to the value or level Settlement balances - payables and receivables that result from of a specified asset or index.
Structured notes can be linked to equities, purchases and sales of financial instruments recognised on trade date.
interest rates, funds, commodities and foreign currency.
Asset settlement balances are amounts owed to the Group in respect of sales and liability settlement balances are amounts owed by the Group in Subordinated liabilities - liabilities which, in the event of insolvency or respect of purchases.
liquidation of the issuer, are subordinated to the claims of depositors and other creditors of the issuer.
Sovereign exposures - exposures to governments, ministries, departments of governments and central banks.
Super senior CDO - the most senior class of instrument issued by a CDO vehicle.
They benefit from the subordination of all other instruments, Standardised approach - a method used to calculate credit risk capital including AAA rated securities, issued by the CDO vehicle.
requirements under Pillar 1 of Basel II.
In this approach the risk weights used in the capital calculation are determined by regulators.
For Supervisory slotting approach - a method of calculating regulatory capital, operational risk, capital requirements are determined by multiplying three specifically for lending exposures in project finance and income years historical gross income by a percentage determined by the producing real estate, where the PD estimates do not meet the minimum regulator.
The percentage ranges from 12 to 18%, depending on the type IRB standards.
Under this approach, the bank classifies exposures from of underlying business being considered.
1 to 5, where 1 is strong and 5 is default.
Specific risk-weights are assigned to each classification.
Standstill - is an agreement, usually for a specified period of time, not to enforce the Banks rights as a result of a customer breaching the terms Tier 1 capital - Core Tier 1 capital plus other Tier 1 securities in issue, and conditions of their facilities.
This is a concession to the customer.
A less material holdings in financial companies.
standstill is most commonly used in a complex restructuring of a companys debts, where a group of creditors agree to delay enforcement Tier 1 capital ratio - Tier 1 capital as a percentage of risk-weighted action to give the company time to gather information and formulate a assets.
strategy with a view to establishing a formal restructuring.
Tier 2 capital - qualifying subordinated debt and other Tier 2 securities in Stress testing - a technique used to evaluate the potential effects on an issue, eligible collective impairment allowances, unrealised  financial condition of an exceptional but plausible event sale equity gains and revaluation reserves less certain regulatory and or movement in a set of financial variables.
Unaudited - financial information that has not been subjected to the audit procedures undertaken by the Group's auditors to enable them to express an opinion on the Group's financial statements.
555 Glossary of terms US Federal Agencies - are independent bodies established by the US Wholesale funding - wholesale funding comprises Deposits by banks, Government for specific purposes such as the management of natural Debt securities in issue and Subordinated liabilities.
resources, financial oversight or national security.
A number of agencies, including, the Government National Mortgage Association, issue or Write-down - a reduction in the carrying value of an asset to record a guarantee publicly traded debt securities.
decline in its fair value or value in use.
Value-at-risk VaR - a technique that produces estimates of the potential Wrong-way risk - the risk of loss when the risk factors driving the loss in the market value of a portfolio over a specified time period at a exposure to a counterparty or customer are positively correlated with the given confidence level.
creditworthiness of that counterparty i. e. the size of the exposure increases at the same time as the risk of the counterparty or customer being unable to meet that obligation, increases.
556 EDTF recommendations The Enhanced Disclosure Taskforce EDTF, established by the Financial Stability Board, published its report Enhancing the Risk Disclosures of Banks in October 2012.
The report suggests improvements to address the quality, comparability and transparency of risk disclosures in areas of risk governance, capital adequacy, liquidity and funding, credit risk and market risk.
The Group implemented the majority of the EDTF recommendations in its 2012 Annual Report and Accounts and Pillar 3 Report and the remainder in its 2013 reports.
The table below sets out the EDTF recommendations and the related locations in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts and Pillar 3 Report.
Page reference Report & Pillar 3 Risk type Recommendation Accounts 1, 174-364 General 1 Present all risk information together.
Where this is not practicable, provide an index.
557 548-556 9 2 Risk terminology, risk measures and key parameter values used.
211, 213, 215 176-177 Risk governance and risk 5 Summarise risk management organisation, processes and key functions.
management 184-186 6 Risk culture and risk appetite.
strategies business model 8-9, 11-19 7 Key risks arising from business models and activities.
194, 212 329 193-194 9 Capital adequacy and risk- 9 Pillar 1 minimal capital requirements.
197-198, 205 weighted assets 10 Composition of capital and reconciliation between accounting and regulatory balance sheet.
202-204 9 13 Risk-weighted assets RWAs and business activities.
207-208 9 15 Credit risk in the banking book for major portfolios.
210-214 Liquidity 18 Liquid assets and their management.
217, 220-222 20 Contractual maturity of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments.
433, 472 216-220 21 Funding strategy including key sources.
320 Market risk 22 Linkages the balance sheet and market risk portfolios.
323 23 Significant trading and non-trading market risk factors.
324-328 24 Model limitations, assumptions and validation procedures 329 25 Stress testing and scenario analysis.
269-278, 206 9 Credit risk 26 Credit risk exposures, including linkage to balance sheet.
242-251 27 Policies for impaired loans and forbearance.
299-316 28 Flow statements for impaired loans and allowance for loan losses.
241, 296-299 9 29 Counterparty credit risk that arises from derivatives transactions.
189-191 Other risks 31 Other risk types.
354-364 4-5, 22 32 Discussion of publicly known risk events.
