Additional information 509 Financial summary 519 Exchange rates 520 Supervision 520 Description of property and equipment 521 Major shareholders 521 Material contracts 523 Risk factors 508 Additional information Financial summary The Group's financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Selected data under IFRS for each of the last five years are presented below.
2 Includes gain on redemption of own debt of 175 million 2012 - 454 million: 2011 - 255 million: 2010 - 553 million: 2009 - 3,790 million.
3 Includes own credit adjustments of 120 million loss 2012 - 4,649 million loss: 2011 - 1,914 million gain: 2010 - 242 million gain: 2009 - 97 million loss.
4 Includes Payment Protection Insurance costs of 900 million 2012 - 1,110 million: 2011 - 850 million, Interest Rate Hedging Products redress and related costs of 550 million 2012 - 700 million and regulatory and legal actions of 2,394 million 2012 - 381 million.
5 Includes integration and restructuring costs of 656 million 2012 - 1,415 million: 2011 - 1,021 million: 2010 - 1,012 million: 2009 - 1,276 million.
6 Includes amortisation of purchased intangible assets of 153 million 2012 - 177 million: 2011 - 222 million: 2010 - 369 million: 2009 - 272 million.
7 Includes write-down of goodwill of 1,059 million 2012 - 18 million: 2011 - 80 million: 2010 - 1 million: 2009 - 296 million.
8 Includes gains on pensions curtailment of 2,148 million in 2009.
9 Includes write-down of other intangible assets of 344 million 2012 - 106 million.
10 Includes sovereign debt impairment of 1,099 million and related interest rate hedge adjustments of 169 million in 2011.
2 Return on average total assets represents loss profit attributable to ordinary and B shareholders as a percentage of average total assets.
3 Return on average owners equity represents loss profit attributable to equity owners expressed as a percentage of average owners equity.
4 Return on average ordinary and B shareholders' equity represents loss profit attributable to ordinary and B shareholders expressed as a percentage of average ordinary and B shareholders' equity.
5 For this purpose, earnings consist of income before tax and non-controlling interests, plus fixed charges less the unremitted income of associates share of profits less dividends received.
Fixed charges consist of total interest expense, including or excluding interest on deposits and debt securities in issue, as appropriate, and the proportion of rental expense deemed representative of the interest factor one third of total rental expenses.
510 Additional information Analysis of loans and advances to customers The following table analyses loans and advances to customers excluding reverse repos, before impairment provisions by remaining maturity, geographical location of office area and type of customer.
Variable rate credit extended to the Groups corporate and commercial customers includes bullet and instalment loans, finance lease agreements and overdrafts: interest is generally charged at a margin over a benchmark rate such as LIBOR or base rate.
Interest on variable rate retail loans may also be based on LIBOR or base rate: other variable rate retail lending is charged at variable interest rates set by the Group such as its mortgage standard variable rate in the UK.
511 Additional information Financial summary continued Loan impairment provisions For a discussion of the factors considered in determining the amount of provisions, refer to the provisions policy on page 381 and Critical accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty on pages 386 to 389.
The following table shows the movements in loan impairment provisions.
2 Includes closing provisions against loans and advances to banks - see table below.
4 For the purpose of these ratios, closing provisions and charge relating to loans and advances to banks are excluded.
The following table shows additional information in respect of loan impairment provisions.
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 m m m m m Loan impairment provisions at end of year Customers 25,153 21,136 19,760 18,055 17,126 Banks 63 114 123 127 157 25,216 21,250 19,883 18,182 17,283 Average loans and advances to customers gross 509,937 541,588 578,057 610,131 821,155 As a % of average loans and advances to customers during the year Total customer provisions charged to income statement 1.6% 1.0% 1.3% 1.5% 1.6% Amounts written-off net of recoveries - customers 0.8% 0.7% 0.7% 0.9% 0.8% Analysis of closing customer loan impairment provisions The following table analyses customer loan impairment provisions by geographical area and type of UK customer.
Analysis of recoveries The following table analyses recoveries of amounts written-off by geographical area and type of UK customer.
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 m m m m m UK Manufacturing 1 1 4 2 1 Construction 1 10 6 1 Finance 1 2 Service industries and business activities 21 16 10 7 14 Property 5 33 8 4 Residential mortgages 6 9 6 3 Personal lending 48 93 111 128 99 Finance leases and instalment credit 2 4 10 3 57 Total UK 78 164 158 151 176 Overseas 178 177 369 260 223 Total recoveries 256 341 527 411 399 514 Additional information Risk elements in lending Risk elements in lending REIL comprises impaired loans and accruing loans past due 90 days or more as to principal or interest.
Impaired loans are all loans including loans subject to forbearance for which an impairment provision has been established: for collectively assessed loans, impairment loss provisions are not allocated to individual loans and the entire portfolio is included in impaired loans.
Accruing loans past due 90 days or more comprise loans past due 90 days where no impairment loss is expected and those awaiting individual assessment.
A latent loss provision is established for the latter.
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 m m m m m Impaired loans 1 UK 17,480 18,412 15,576 15,738 13,572 Overseas 19,691 20,074 23,171 19,963 21,453 Total 37,171 38,486 38,747 35,701 35,025 Accruing loans which are contractually overdue 90 days or more as to principal or interest UK 1,962 2,007 1,698 2,374 2,224 Overseas 259 634 400 523 1,000 Total 2,221 2,641 2,098 2,897 3,224 Total risk elements in lending 39,392 41,127 40,845 38,598 38,249 Closing provisions for impairment as a % of total risk elements in lending 64% 52% 49% 47% 45% Risk elements in lending as a % of gross lending to customers excluding reverse repos 3 9.5% 9.1% 8.6% 7.4% 5.4% Notes: 1 The write-off of impaired loans affects the closing provisions for impairment as a % of total risk elements in lending the coverage ratio.
The coverage ratio reduces if the loan written off carries a higher than average provision and increases if the loan written off carries a lower than average provision.
2 Impaired loans at 31 December 2013 include 7,687 million 2012 - 6,009 million of loans subject to forbearance granted during the year.
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 m m m m m Gross income not recognised but which would have been recognised under the original terms of impaired loans UK 571 665 636 579 625 Overseas 696 940 964 830 1,032 1,267 1,605 1,600 1,409 1,657 Interest on impaired loans included in net interest income UK 196 255 235 216 230 Overseas 195 221 249 239 178 391 476 484 455 408 Potential problem loans Potential problem loans PPL are loans for which an impairment event has taken place but no impairment loss is expected.
This category is used for advances which are not past due 90 days or revolving credit facilities where identification as 90 days overdue is not feasible.
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 m m m m m Potential problem loans 789 807 739 633 1,009 Both REIL and PPL are reported gross and take no account of the value of any security held which could reduce the eventual loss should it occur, nor of any provision marked.
Therefore impaired assets which are highly collateralised, such as mortgages, will have a low coverage ratio of provisions held against the reported impaired balance.
515 Additional information Financial summary continued Forbearance The table below shows loans granted forbearance during the year.
These loans are unimpaired: either the loan was performing before and after the granting of forbearance or the loan was non-performing before but subsequently transferred to the performing book.
Loans with impairment provisions subject to forbearance continue to be reported as impaired loans.
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 m m m m m Loans granted forbearance 7,901 11,196 7,674 5,758 2,698 Notes: 1 Wholesale loans subject to forbearance include only those arrangements above thresholds set individually by the divisions, ranging from nil to 3 million.
2 For 2013, wholesale loans subject to forbearance were 4,305 million refer to page 244 and secured retail loans subject to forbearance were 3,596 million refer to page 248.
Unsecured retail loans subject to forbearance are not included.
The balance of unsecured retail loans subject to forbearance amounts to 272 million.
Cross border exposures Cross border exposures are loans and advances including finance leases and instalment credit receivables and other monetary assets, such as debt securities, including non-local currency claims of overseas offices on local residents.
The Group monitors the geographical breakdown of these exposures based on the country of domicile of the borrower or guarantor of ultimate risk.
Cross border exposures exclude exposures to local residents in local currencies.
The table below sets out the Groups cross border exposures greater than 0.5% of the Groups total assets.
None of these countries have experienced repayment difficulties that have required restructuring of outstanding debt.
Over 3 Over 6 months months Within but within but within Over 3 months 6 months 12 months 12 months Total 2013 m m m m m UK based companies and branches Certificates of deposit 671 39 537 65 1,312 Other time deposits 21,575 1,776 2,579 3,505 29,435 Overseas based companies and branches Certificates of deposit 899 3 10 1 913 Other time deposits 8,427 2,337 1,760 1,252 13,776 31,572 4,155 4,886 4,823 45,436 Short-term borrowings Short-term borrowings comprise repurchase agreements, borrowings from financial institutions, commercial paper CP and certificates of deposit CDs.
Derivative collateral received from financial institutions is excluded from the table below, as are certain long-term borrowings.
2 Excludes Federal Home Loan Banks long-term borrowings of 2 billion at 31 December 2013 2012 and 2011 - 1 billion, 2013 average of 1 billion 2012 and 2011 - 1 billion.
Balances are generally based on monthly data.
Average interest rates during the year are computed by dividing total interest expense by the average amount borrowed.
Average interest rates at year end are average rates for a single day and as such may reflect one-day market distortions, which may not be indicative of generally prevailing rates.
518 Additional information Other contractual cash obligations The table below summarises the Group's other contractual cash obligations by payment date.
While the Group has given commitments to provide these funds, some facilities may be subject to certain conditions being met by the counterparty.
The Group does not expect all facilities to be drawn, and some may lapse before drawdown.
Exchange rates Except as stated, the following tables show, for the dates or periods indicated, the Noon Buying Rate in New York for cable transfers in sterling as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
2 The rates used by the Group for translating US dollars into sterling in the preparation of its financial statements.
519 Additional information Supervision Anti-money laundering, anti-terrorism and economic sanctions United Kingdom regulations are a major focus of the US government for financial In April 2013, the Financial Services Authority FSA was replaced by two institutions and are rigorously enforced by the US government agencies.
new regulators: the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
At that point, the PRA became the The Group's US bank and non-bank subsidiaries and the Royal Bank's consolidated supervisor of the Group.
The PRA, an operationally US branches are also subject to supervision and regulation by a variety independent subsidiary of the Bank of England, is responsible for of other US regulatory agencies.
RBS Citizens N. A. is supervised by the promoting the safety and soundness of systemically important financial Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which is charged with the institutions in the UK.
The FCA's overall objective is to ensure financial regulation and supervision of nationally chartered banks.
This is supported by its operational objectives of: Citizens N. A. owns CCO Investments Services Corp. a US broker dealer securing an appropriate degree of protection for consumers: protecting subject to regulation and supervision by the US Securities and Exchange and enhancing the integrity of the UK financial system: and promoting Commission SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority effective competition in the interests of consumers.
FINRA with respect to its securities activities.
Citizens Bank of Pennsylvania is subject to the regulation and supervision of the US As at 31 December 2013, 16 companies in the Group, spanning a range Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Pennsylvania Department of financial services sectors banking, insurance and investment of Banking.
Both banks are subject to supervision and regulation by the business, were authorised to conduct financial activities in the UK.
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau CFPB.
UK authorised banks in the Group include The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, National Westminster Bank Plc, Coutts & Co and Ulster Bank RBS Citizens Financial Group, Inc. is under the supervision of the Limited.
Wholesale activities, other than Group Treasury activities, are Federal Reserve as a bank holding company.
The Royal Bank's New concentrated in the Group's Markets, International Banking and UK York branch is supervised by the New York State Department of Corporate Banking divisions, and are undertaken under the names of The Financial Services and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and its Royal Bank of Scotland plc and National Westminster Bank Plc.
UK retail Connecticut branch is supervised by the Connecticut Department of banking activities are managed by the UK Retail division and by Ulster Banking.
Both branches are also subject to supervisory oversight by the Bank Limited in Northern Ireland.
The banking service in the Republic of Federal Reserve Bank of Boston.
Ireland is provided by Ulster Bank Ireland Limited, which is supervised by the Central Bank of Ireland.
The Group's primary US broker dealer, RBS Securities Inc. RBSSI, formerly known as Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc. is also subject to Investment management business is principally undertaken by regulation and supervision by the SEC and FINRA with respect to its companies in the Wealth division, including Coutts & Co, Adam & securities activities.
The futures activities of RBSSI are subject to Company Investment Management Limited, and in the Markets and regulation and oversight by the US Commodity Futures Trading International Banking divisions, through RBS Asset Management Limited Commission and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange Group-owned and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
The Group is subject to extensive regulations that impose obligations on Other jurisdictions financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and The Group operates in over 45 countries through a network of branches, controls to ensure compliance with the rules and regulations to which local banks and non-bank subsidiaries and these activities are subject to they are subject.
supervision in most cases by a local regulator or central bank.
United States Description of property and equipment The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc RBSG is both a bank holding The Group operates from a number of locations worldwide, principally in company and a financial holding company within the meaning of the US the UK.
At 31 December 2013, the Royal Bank and NatWest had 608 and Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.
As such, it is subject to the 1,392 retail branches, respectively, in the UK.
Ulster Bank has a footprint regulation and supervision of the Board of Governors of the Federal of 214 branches and an extensive network of business banking offices Reserve System the Federal Reserve.
Among other things, the across Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
US Retail & Group's direct and indirect activities and investments in the United States Commercial had 1,366 retail banking offices including in-store branches are limited to those that are 'financial in nature' or 'incidental' or covering Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Massachusetts, Michigan, New 'complementary' to a financial activity, as determined by the Federal Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island Reserve.
The Group is also required to obtain the prior approval of the and Vermont.
A substantial majority of the UK branches are owned by the Federal Reserve before acquiring directly or indirectly, the ownership or Royal Bank, NatWest and their subsidiaries or are held under leases with control of more than 5% of any class of the voting shares of any US bank unexpired terms of over 50 years.
The Group's principal properties or holding company.
Under current Federal Reserve policy, the Group is include its headquarters at Gogarburn, Edinburgh, its principal offices in required to act as a source of financial strength for its US bank London at 135 and 280 Bishopsgate and the Drummond House subsidiaries.
Among other things, this source of strength obligation could administration centre located at South Gyle, Edinburgh.
require the Group to inject capital into any of its US bank subsidiaries if any of them became undercapitalised.
Total capital expenditure on premises excluding investment properties, computers and other equipment in the year ended 31 December 2013 was 571 million 2012 - 801 million: 2011 - 820 million.
520 Additional information Major shareholders B Share Acquisition and Contingent Capital Agreement In December 2008, The Solicitor for the Affairs of Her Majesty's Treasury On 26 November 2009, the company and HM Treasury entered into the HM Treasury acquired 22,854 million ordinary shares representing Acquisition and Contingent Capital Agreement pursuant to which HM 57.9% of the company's issued ordinary share capital.
"During 2009, HM Treasury subscribed for the initial B shares and the Dividend Access Treasury acquired a further 16,791 million ordinary shares raising their Share the ""Acquisitions"" and agreed the terms of HM Treasury's holding to 70.3% of the company's issued ordinary share capital."
"subscription the Contingent Subscription for an additional 8 billion in aggregate in the form of further B shares the ""Contingent B shares"", In December 2009, HM Treasury acquired 51 billion B shares in the which will be issued on the same terms as the initial B shares."
The company representing the entire issued B share capital.
As a result of the Acquisitions were subject to the satisfaction of various conditions, ordinary share sub-division and consolidation which took place in June including the company having obtained the approval of its shareholders in 2012, HM Treasurys holding in the companys ordinary shares became relation to the Acquisitions.
3,964 million ordinary shares of 1 each.
At 31 December 2013, HM Treasurys holding in the companys ordinary shares was 63.9%.
The company and HM Treasury further agreed the terms of the 8 billion Contingent Subscription of the Contingent B shares in the Acquisition and As far as the company is aware, there have been no significant changes Contingent Capital Agreement.
For a period of five years from 22 in the percentage ownership of major shareholders of the company's December 2009 or, if earlier, until the occurrence of a termination event ordinary, B and preference shares during the three years ended 26 or until the companys decision with PRA formerly FSA consent to February 2014.
"All shareholders within a class of the company's shares terminate such Contingent Subscription the ""Contingent Period"", if the have the same voting rights."
Core Tier 1 ratio of the company fell below five per cent and if certain other conditions were met HM Treasury would be committed to As at 31 December 2013, almost all of the company's US$ denominated subscribe for the Contingent B shares in no fewer than two tranches of 6 preference shares and American Depository Shares representing billion and 2 billion or such smaller amounts as the company and HM ordinary shares were held by shareholders registered in the US.
All other Treasury may agree.
Any unused portion of the 8 billion could be shares were predominantly held by shareholders registered outside the subscribed in one or more further tranches.
On December 16, 2013, the company announced that, having received Material contracts approval from the PRA, it had terminated the 8 billion Contingent The company and its subsidiaries are party to various contracts in the Subscription.
The Group was able to cancel the Contingent Subscription ordinary course of business.
Material contracts include the following: as a result of the actions announced in the second half of 2013 to further strengthen its capital position.
Consortium and Shareholders Agreement CSA On 28 May 2007, Fortis Bank Nederland, the company, Santander and On entering into the Contingent Subscription in 2009, the company RFS Holdings entered into the CSA.
Fortis Bank Nederland acceded to recognised the present value of the annual fees payable under the the CSA on 26 July 2007.
On 3 October 2008, the Dutch State acquired agreement 1,208 million as a liability and debited a contingent capital Fortis Bank Nederland.
On 24 December 2008 the Dutch State acceded reserve within equity.
Following termination of the Contingent to the CSA following its acquisition of the shares held by Fortis Bank Subscription, the outstanding final annual fee of 320 million will no Nederland in RFS Holdings pursuant to a Deed of Accession entered into longer be payable.
The balance sheet liability for this fee has been between RFS Holdings, the company, Fortis Bank Nederland, Santander extinguished with a corresponding entry to equity.
On 1 April 2010 the CSA was restated.
It was the subject of a further amendment on 18 July 2011.
On 7 November 2012, The company gave certain representations and warranties to HM Stichting Administratiekantoor Beheer Financile Instellingen the Treasury on the date of the Acquisition and Contingent Capital Foundation acceded to the CSA as amended and restated as a Agreement, on the date the circular was posted to shareholders, on the shareholder following its acquisition of the shares held by the Dutch State first date on which all of the conditions precedent were satisfied, or in RFS Holdings pursuant to a Deed of Accession entered into between waived, and on the date of the Acquisitions.
RFS Holdings, the company, Santander, the Dutch State and the Foundation.
The Dutch State remains a party to the CSA.
The CSA as The company agreed to reimburse HM Treasury for its expenses incurred amended and restated governs the relationships amongst the parties in connection with the Acquisitions.
thereto in relation to the acquisition by RFS Holdings of ABN AMRO now RBS Holdings N. V..
The CSA as amended and restated details, inter The company agreed to a number of undertakings, including with respect alia, the equity interests in RFS Holdings, the governance of RFS to: i restrictions on the payment of dividends or other distributions on, Holdings, the arrangements for the transfer of certain ABN AMRO and the redemption of, certain securities: ii expectations regarding the businesses, assets and liabilities to the Dutch State previously Fortis repurchase of the B shares by the company: iii negotiating in good faith Bank Nederland, the company and Santander, further funding to maintain the status of the B shares and Dividend Access Share as obligations of the Dutch State, the company and Santander where Core Tier 1 capital: and iv restrictions in relation to the company's share funding is required by regulatory authorities in connection with the ABN premium account.
AMRO businesses, the allocation of taxes and conduct of tax affairs and the steps that the Dutch State, the company and Santander expect to take to enable the company to become the sole shareholder of RFS Holdings.
"521 Additional information Material contracts continued The State Aid Commitment Deed also provides that if the European HM Treasury has agreed to waive its statutory pre-emption rights arising Commission adopts a decision that the UK Government must recover any out of the B shares and the Dividend Access Share in respect of any State Aid a ""Repayment Decision"" and the recovery order of the future issue of equity securities by the company other than B shares and Repayment Decision has not been annulled or suspended by the Court of has agreed to vote its B shares and the Dividend Access Share, as First Instance now the General Court or the European Court of Justice, applicable, in favour of each special resolution to disapply its prethen the Group must repay HM Treasury any aid ordered to be recovered emption rights under the B shares and or the Dividend Access Share under the Repayment Decision."
then held by HM Treasury every time they arise in respect of any such future issue.
The pre-emption rights arising out of the B shares and the The State Aid Commitment Deed also provides for the Group's Dividend Access Share have also been disapplied in the Articles of undertakings in respect of State Aid to be modified in certain limited Association.
However, HM Treasury has undertaken that it will not, without the consent of the Group, agree modifications to the Group's HM Treasury has agreed that it shall not be entitled to exercise its option undertakings with respect to State Aid which are significantly more to convert B shares into ordinary shares to the extent that it holds more onerous to the Group than those granted in order to obtain the State Aid than 75 per cent of the ordinary shares of the company or to the extent approval.
that the exercise of such option would result in it holding more than 75 per cent of the ordinary shares of the company.
The Group is currently in discussions with HM Treasury and the European Commission in relation to certain amendments to the terms of HM Treasury has agreed that it shall not be entitled to vote the B shares the State Aid approval and therefore expects to enter into a new version or the Dividend Access Share to the extent that votes cast on such B of the State Aid Commitment Deed in the near future shares and the Dividend Access Share, together with any other votes which HM Treasury is entitled to cast in respect of any ordinary shares State Aid Costs Reimbursement Deed held by or on behalf of HM Treasury, would exceed 75 per cent of the Under the State Aid Costs Reimbursement Deed, the Group has agreed total votes eligible to be cast on a resolution proposed at a general to reimburse HM Treasury for fees, costs and expenses associated with meeting of the company.
the State Aid and State Aid approval.
For as long as it is a substantial shareholder of the company within the Sale of RBS England & Wales and NatWest Scotland branch based meaning of the UKLA's Listing Rules, HM Treasury has undertaken not business to vote on related party transaction resolutions at general meetings and On 27 September 2013, the Group agreed a 600 million pre-IPO to direct that its affiliates do not so vote.
investment with a consortium of investors led by Corsair Capital and Centerbridge Partners, in relation to its RBS England and Wales and State Aid Commitment Deed NatWest Scotland branch based business which centres around 314 As a result of the State Aid granted to the company, it was required to branches in the UK.
Following completion of the operational and legal work with HM Treasury to submit a State Aid restructuring plan to the separation of the business into a standalone bank to be branded Williams European Commission, which was then approved under the State Aid & Glyn, an exercise that is already well underway, the Group will pursue rules.
The company agreed a series of measures which supplemented an Initial Public Offering IPO.
The pre-IPO investment took the form of a the measures in the company's strategic plan.
600 million bond, which was issued by the Royal Bank on 21 October 2013, which will be exchangeable for a significant minority interest in The Group entered into a State Aid Commitment Deed with HM Treasury Williams & Glyn at the time of IPO.
The bond will convert into Williams & which provides that the Group will comply or procure compliance with Glyn shares at the IPO price, subject to a minimum ownership level which these measures and behavioural commitments.
The Group agreed to do will be linked to the tangible book value of Williams & Glyn prior to the all acts and take all measures to ensure HM Treasury's compliance with IPO, and in any case no more than a stake of 49%.
To the extent the its obligations under any European Commission decision approving State maximum ownership level is reached, the bond will be partially redeemed Aid to the Group.
in cash such that the investors will receive a total value of 600 million of cash and shares at the IPO price.
At the IPO, subject to RBSG's consent, the investors will have the option to acquire up to 10% additionally at the IPO price, subject to their pro forma ownership being no more than 49% in aggregate.
The Royal Bank Markets division provided a 270 million secured financing package to the investor-consortium in relation to the investment.
522 Additional information Risk factors Since the end of Q3 2013, the Group has been conducting a review of its Set out below are certain risk factors which could adversely affect the activities which has resulted in additional changes to the Groups Group's future results, its financial condition and prospects and cause strategic goals.
It is now intended to further simplify and downsize the them to be materially different from what is expected.
The factors Group with an increased focus on service to its customers.
As part of discussed below and elsewhere in this report should not be regarded as simplifying the Group, the current divisional structure will be replaced by a complete and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and three new customer segments, covering Personal & Business, uncertainties facing the Group.
Commercial & Private Banking and Corporate & Institutional Banking.
As part of this reorganisation of the business, the intention will be to remain The Groups ability to implement its new strategic plan and achieve its in businesses where the Group can be number one for its customers.
For capital goals depends on the success of the Group's plans to refocus on those businesses where that is not the case, the Group will either fix, its core strengths and the timely divestment of RBS Citizens close or dispose of such businesses.
This reorganisation, together with Since the beginning of the global economic and financial crisis in 2008 investment in technology and more efficient support functions are and as a result of the changed global economic outlook, the Group has intended to deliver significant improvements in the Groups Return on been engaged in a financial and core business restructuring which has Equity and costs: income ratio in the longer term.
been focused on achieving appropriate risk-adjusted returns under these changed circumstances, reducing reliance on wholesale funding and Implementation of the Groups new strategic plan will require significant lowering exposure to capital-intensive businesses.
A key part of the restructuring of the Group at the same time that it will also be restructuring programme announced in February 2009 was to run down implementing structural changes to comply with the Financial Services and sell the Groups non-core assets and businesses with a continued Banking Reform Act 2013 the Banking Reform Act 2013 and its ringreview of the Groups portfolio to identify further disposals of certain nonfencing requirements.
The level of structural change intended to be core assets and businesses.
Assets identified for this purpose and implemented within the Group over the medium term taken together with allocated to the Groups Non-Core division totalled 258 billion, excluding the overall scale of change to make the Group a smaller, more focused derivatives, at 31 December 2008.
By 31 December 2013, this total had financial institution, are likely to be disruptive and increase operational reduced to 28.0 billion 31 December 2012 - 57.4 billion, excluding risks for the Group.
There can be no assurance that the Group will be derivatives, as further progress was made in business disposals and able to successfully implement this new strategy together with other portfolio sales during the course of 2013.
This balance sheet reduction changes required of the Group in the time frames contemplated or at all.
programme has been implemented alongside the disposals under the State Aid restructuring plan approved by the EC.
During 2012 the Group The Groups ability to dispose of businesses, including RBS Citizens and implemented changes to its wholesale banking operations, including the the EC mandated branch divestment now known as Williams & Glyn, and reorganisation of its wholesale businesses and the exit and downsizing of assets and the price achieved for such disposals will be dependent on selected existing activities including cash equities, corporate banking, prevailing economic and market conditions, which remain volatile.
As a equity capital markets, and mergers and acquisitions.
result there is no assurance that the Group will be able to sell or run down as applicable the businesses it has planned to sell or exit or asset During Q3 2013, the Group worked with HM Treasury as part of its portfolios it is seeking to sell either on favourable economic terms to the assessment of the merits of creating an external bad bank to hold Group or at all.
Material tax or other contingent liabilities could arise on certain assets of the Group.
Although the review concluded that the the disposal or run-down of assets or businesses and there is no establishment of an external bad bank was not in the best interests of assurance that any conditions precedent agreed will be satisfied, or all stakeholders, the Group committed to take a series of actions to consents and approvals required will be obtained in a timely manner, or further fide-risk its business and strengthen its capital position.
There is consequently a risk that the Group may fail to complete such disposals within time frames envisaged by the Group, its regulators These actions include: and the EC.
The formation of the Capital Resolution Group CRG, which is made up of four pillars: exiting the assets in RBS Capital Resolution The Group may be exposed to deteriorations in businesses or portfolios RCR, delivering the initial public offerings IPO for both RBS being sold between the announcement of the disposal and its completion, Citizens and Williams & Glyn and optimising the Groups shipping which period may be lengthy and may span many months.
In addition, business: the Group may be exposed to certain risks, including risks arising out of ongoing liabilities and obligations, breaches of covenants, The creation of RCR to manage the run-down of problem assets, representations and warranties, indemnity claims, transitional services which totalled 29 billion at the end of 2013, with the goal of arrangements and redundancy or other transaction related costs.
removing 55-70% of these assets over the next two years with a clear aspiration to remove all these assets from the balance sheet in The occurrence of any of the risks described above could negatively three years: and affect the Groups ability to implement its new strategic plan and achieve its capital targets and could have a material adverse effect on the Lifting the Groups capital targets including by: Groups business, results of operations, financial condition and cash accelerating the divestment of RBS Citizens, the Groups US flows.
There can also be no assurance that if the Group is able to banking subsidiary, with a partial IPO now planned for 2014, and execute its strategic plan that the new strategy will ultimately be full divestment of the business intended by the end of 2016: and successful or beneficial to the Group.
intensifying management actions to reduce risk weighted assets.
523 Additional information Risk factors continued The Group may be required to increase provisions in relation to ongoing The Group is subject to political risks legal proceedings, investigations and governmental and regulatory The Group and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc RBS or the Royal matters.
In Q4 2013, the Group booked a 1.9 billion provision to cover Bank, its principal operating subsidiary, are both headquartered and various claims and conduct related matters affecting Group companies, incorporated in Scotland.
The Scottish Government is holding a primarily those related to mortgage-backed securities and securities referendum in September 2014 on the question of Scottish independence related litigation, following recent third party litigation settlements and from the UK.
Although the outcome of such referendum is uncertain, regulatory decisions.
It also increased its provision for Payment subject to any mitigating factors, the uncertainties resulting from an Protection Insurance redress and related costs by an additional 465 affirmative vote in favour of independence would be likely to significantly million for a cumulative provision of 3.1 billion.
The provision for Interest impact the Groups credit ratings and could also impact the fiscal, Rate Hedging Products redress and administration costs was also monetary, legal and regulatory landscape to which the Group is subject.
increased to be a cumulative provision of 1.25 billion at 31 December Were Scotland to become independent, it may also affect Scotlands 2013.
Significant increases in provisions may harm the Groups status in the EU.
The occurrence of any of the impacts above could reputation and may have an adverse effect on the Groups financial significantly impact the Groups costs and would have a material adverse condition and results of operations.
effect on the Groups business, financial condition, results of operations The Group, like many other financial institutions, has come under greater and prospects.
regulatory scrutiny in recent years and expects that environment to The Group is subject to a number of legal, regulatory and governmental continue for the foreseeable future, particularly as it relates to compliance actions and investigations.
Unfavourable outcomes in such actions and with historical, new and existing corporate governance, employee investigations could have a material adverse effect on the Groups compensation, conduct of business, anti-money laundering and antioperating results or reputation terrorism laws and regulations, as well as the provisions of applicable The Groups operations are diverse and complex, and it operates in legal sanctions programmes.
Past or current failure to comply with any one or and regulatory environments that expose it to potentially significant more of these laws or regulations could have a significant adverse effect litigation, regulatory and governmental investigations and other regulatory on the Groups reputation, financial condition and results of operations.
As a result, the Group has recently settled a number of legal and The Group could fail to attract or retain senior management, which may regulatory investigations and is, and may in the future be, involved in a include members of the Board, or other key employees, and it may suffer number of legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations in the UK, if it does not maintain good employee relations the EU, the US and other jurisdictions.
The Groups ability to implement its strategy and its future success The Group is involved in ongoing class action litigation, investigations into depends on its ability to attract, retain and remunerate highly skilled and qualified personnel, including its senior management, which include foreign exchange trading and rate setting activities, continuing LIBOR related litigation and investigations, securitisation and securities related directors and other key employees, competitively with its peers.
This litigation, and anti-money laundering, sanctions, mis-selling and cannot be guaranteed, particularly in light of heightened regulatory compliance related investigations, in addition to a number of other oversight of banks and heightened scrutiny of, and in some cases matters.
In respect of the LIBOR and other trading rate-related restrictions placed upon, management and employee compensation investigations, the Group reached settlements on 6 February 2013 with arrangements, in particular those in receipt of Government support such the Financial Services Authority, the Commodity Futures Trading as the Group.
Association and the United States Department of Justice and on 4 In addition to the effects of such measures on the Groups ability to retain December 2013 with the EC.
In addition, the Group and the Royal Bank senior management and other key employees, the marketplace for skilled reached a settlement with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve personnel is more competitive, which means the cost of hiring, training System, the New York State Department of Financial Services and the and retaining skilled personnel may continue to increase.
The failure to Office of Foreign Assets Control with respect to the Royal Banks attract or retain a sufficient number of appropriately skilled personnel historical compliance with US economic sanction regulations outside the could place the Group at a significant competitive disadvantage and United States.
The Group continues to cooperate with these and other prevent the Group from successfully implementing its strategy, which governmental and regulatory authorities in connection with ongoing could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition investigations and the probable outcome is that it will incur additional and results of operations.
financial penalties which may be material.
During 2013 the Group replaced its Group Chief Executive, Group Legal, governmental and regulatory proceedings and investigations are Finance Director and Chief Risk Officer and its newly appointed Group subject to many uncertainties, and their outcomes, including the timing Finance Director October 2013 resigned and a search for a new Group and amount of fines or settlements, which may be material, are often Finance Director is continuing.
The Groups changing strategy, difficult to predict, particularly in the early stages of a case or particularly with respect to its Markets business and recently announced investigation.
Adverse regulatory proceedings or adverse judgments in disposition of RBS Citizens, has led to the exodus of talented staff.
The litigation could result in restrictions or limitations on the Groups lack of continuity of senior management and the loss of important operations or have a significant effect on the Groups reputation, results personnel within the Group could have an adverse impact on the of operations and capital position.
It is expected that the Group will implementation of the Groups strategic objectives and regulatory continue to have a material exposure to legacy litigation and regulatory commitments.
matter proceedings in the medium term.
For more detail on certain of the Groups ongoing legal, governmental and regulatory proceedings, see pages 474 to 482.
524 Additional information In addition, certain of the Groups employees in the UK, continental These and other changes to the competitive landscape could adversely Europe and other jurisdictions in which the Group operates are affect the Groups business, margins, profitability, financial condition and represented by employee representative bodies, including trade unions.
Engagement with its employees and such bodies is important to the Group and a breakdown of these relationships could adversely affect the The Groups businesses and performance can be negatively affected by Groups business, reputation and results.
actual or perceived global economic and financial market conditions The Groups businesses and performance are affected by local and Operational risks are inherent in the Groups businesses global economic conditions, perceptions of those conditions and future Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed economic prospects.
The outlook for the global economy over the near to internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
The medium-term is for steady growth.
Prospects for the UK and the US in Group has complex and geographically diverse operations and 2014 are the strongest among the G7.
The outlook for Ireland is operational risk and losses can result from internal and external fraud, improving but remains challenging.
Risks to growth and stability stem errors by employees or third parties, failure to document transactions mainly from continued imbalances among and within countries and properly or to obtain proper authorisation, failure to comply with from uncertainty about how economies will respond as the extraordinary applicable regulatory requirements and conduct of business rules monetary policy measures implemented during the crisis are unwound.
including those arising out of anti-bribery, anti-money laundering and The Groups businesses and performance are also affected by financial anti-terrorism legislation, as well as the provisions of applicable sanctions market conditions.
Capital and credit markets around the world have programmes, equipment failures, business continuity and data security been relatively stable since 2012.
Although the risk of sovereign default system failures, natural disasters or the inadequacy or failure of systems relating to certain EU member states diminished during 2013, a number and controls, including those of the Groups suppliers or counterparties.
of EU countries including the UK had their credit ratings downgraded, and Although the Group has implemented risk controls and loss mitigation the lingering risk of a sovereign default continues to pose a threat to actions, and substantial resources are devoted to developing efficient capital and credit markets.
In addition, in response to actions of central procedures, to identify and rectify weaknesses in existing procedures and banks, in particular the US Federal Reserves actions with respect to to train staff, it is not possible to be certain that such actions have been or tapering of its debt purchase program, there have been short periods of will be effective in controlling each of the operational risks faced by the rapid movements in interest rates and significant sharp falls on equity Group.
Ineffective management of operational risks could have a material markets and further market volatility is likely as tapering continues.
adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition and results of operations.
Challenging economic and market conditions create a difficult operating environment for the Groups businesses, which is characterised by: The Group operates in markets that are highly competitive and its business and results of operations may be adversely affected reduced activity levels, additional write-downs and impairment The competitive landscape for banks and other financial institutions in the charges and lower profitability, especially in combination with UK, the US and throughout the rest of Europe is subject to rapid change regulatory changes or action of market participants, which either and recent regulatory and legal changes are likely to result in new market alone or collectively may restrict the ability of the Group to access participants and changed competitive dynamics in certain key areas, funding and liquidity: such as in retail banking in the UK.
The competitive landscape in the UK will be particularly influenced by the UK governments implementation of central bank actions to engender economic growth which have the recommendations on competition included in the final report of the resulted in a prolonged period of low interest rates constraining, Independent Commission on Banking ICB, including ring-fencing and through margin compression and low returns on assets, the interest other customer protection measures addressed in the Banking Reform income earned on the Groups interest earning assets: and Act 2013 which became law in the United Kingdom on 18 December 2013 and will be implemented through secondary legislation due to be the risk of increased volatility in yields and asset valuations as completed by May 2015.
In order to compete effectively, certain financial central banks start accelerate the process of tightening or unwinding institutions may seek to consolidate their businesses or assets with other historically unprecedented loose monetary policy or extraordinary parties.
This consolidation, in combination with the introduction of new measures.
The resulting environment of uncertainty for the market entrants into the markets in which the Group operates is likely to increase and consumers will lead to challenging trading and market competitive pressures on the Group.
In addition, certain competitors may have stronger and more efficient operations, including better IT systems allowing them to implement In particular, should economic recovery stagnate, particularly in the innovative technologies for delivering services to their customers, and Groups key markets, or the scope and severity of the adverse economic may have access to lower cost funding and or be able to attract deposits conditions currently experienced by a number of EU member states and on more favourable terms than the Group.
Furthermore, the Groups elsewhere worsen, the risks faced by the Group would be exacerbated.
competitors may be better able to attract and retain clients and key Developments relating to the current economic conditions and the risk of employees, which may have a negative impact on the Groups relative a return to a volatile financial environment, including those discussed performance and future prospects.
In addition, recent and future above, could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, disposals and restructurings by the Group and the compensation financial condition, results of operations and prospects.
structure and restrictions imposed on the Group may also have an impact on its ability to compete effectively.
525 Additional information Risk factors continued The Group and its UK bank subsidiaries are subject to the provisions of The Group has significant exposure to a weakening of the nascent the Banking Act 2009, as amended by the Banking Reform Act 2013, economic recovery in Europe which includes special resolution powers including nationalisation and In Europe, countries such as Ireland, Italy, Greece, Portugal and Spain bail-in have been particularly affected by the recent macroeconomic and Under the Banking Act 2009, substantial powers have been granted to financial conditions.
Although the risk of sovereign default continued to HM Treasury, the Bank of England and the Prudential Regulation decline in 2013 due to the continuing actions of the European Central Authority PRA and Financial Conduct Authority FCA together, the Bank ECB and the EU, the risk of default remains and yields on the Authorities as part of a special resolution regime.
These powers enable sovereign debt of many EU member states have remained well above the Authorities to deal with and stabilise certain deposit-taking UK pre-crisis levels.
This default risk raises concerns, and the possibility incorporated institutions that are failing, or are likely to fail, to satisfy the remains that the contagion effect spreads to other EU economies, threshold conditions within the meaning of section 41 of the Financial including the UK economy, that the euro could be abandoned as a Services and Markets Act 2000 FSMA, which are the conditions that a currency by one or more countries that have already adopted its use, or relevant entity must satisfy in order to obtain its authorisation to perform in an extreme scenario, that the abandonment of the euro could result in regulated activities.
The special resolution regime consists of three the dissolution of the European Monetary Union EMU.
This would lead stabilisation options: i transfer of all or part of the business of the to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more EMU relevant entity and or the securities of the relevant entity to a private member states.
sector purchaser, ii transfer of all or part of the business of the relevant entity to a bridge bank wholly owned by the Bank of England and iii The effects on the UK, European and global economies of any potential temporary public ownership nationalisation of the relevant entity.
If HM dissolution of the EMU, exit of one or more EU member states from the Treasury decides to take the Group into temporary public ownership EMU and the redenomination of financial instruments from the euro to a pursuant to the powers granted under the Banking Act 2009, it may take different currency, are impossible to predict fully.
However, if any such various actions in relation to any securities without the consent of holders events were to occur they would likely: of the securities.
result in significant market dislocation: Among the changes introduced by the Banking Reform Act 2013, the Banking Act 2009 is amended to insert a bail-in option as part of the heighten counterparty risk: powers of the UK resolution authority which option will come into force on such date as shall be stipulated by HM Treasury.
The bail-in option will result in downgrades of credit ratings for European borrowers, giving be introduced as an additional power available to the Bank of England to rise to increases in credit spreads and decreases in security values: enable it to recapitalise a failed institution by allocating losses to its shareholders and unsecured creditors in a manner that seeks to respect disrupt and adversely affect the economic activity of the UK and the hierarchy of claims in liquidation.
The bail-in option includes the other European markets: and power to cancel a liability, to modify the form of a liability including the power to convert a liability from one form to another or to provide that a adversely affect the management of market risk and in particular contract under which the institution has a liability is to have effect as if a asset and liability management due, in part, to redenomination of specified right had been exercised under it, each for the purposes of financial assets and liabilities and the potential for mismatch.
reducing, deferring or cancelling the liabilities of the bank under resolution, as well as to transfer a liability.
The Banking Reform Act 2013 The occurrence of any of these events would have a material adverse is consistent with the range of tools that Member States will be required effect on the Groups financial condition, results of operations and to make available to their resolution authorities under the Recovery and prospects.
Resolution Directive RRD, although since the RRD remains in draft form, there can be no assurance that the bail-in option added under the The Group has significant exposure to private sector and public sector Banking Reform Act will not need to change to comply with the RRD.
customers and counterparties in the eurozone at 31 December 2013 principally Ireland 39.8 billion, Germany 31.1 billion, The The Group is subject to a variety of risks as a result of implementing the Netherlands 25.9 billion, France 23.8 billion, Spain 11.2 billion State Aid restructuring plan and Italy 7.1 billion.
The Groups private and public sector exposures The Group was required to obtain State Aid approval for the aid given to in the eurozone have been, and may in the future be, affected by credit the Group by HM Treasury as part of the placing and open offer losses and restructuring of their terms, principal, interest and maturity.
In undertaken by the Group in December 2008, the issuance to HM 2011, this included an impairment loss of 1.1 billion in respect of its Treasury of 25.5 billion of B shares in the capital of the Group which are, holding of Greek government bonds.
The public sector exposure subject to certain terms and conditions, convertible into ordinary shares in comprises exposure to central and local governments and deposits with the share capital of the Group and a contingent commitment by HM central banks.
At 31 December 2013, the Groups eurozone government Treasury which has now been terminated to subscribe for up to an debt exposure amounted to 15.9 billion largely AFS and HFT debt additional 8 billion of B Shares if certain conditions are met in addition to securities exposure including aggregate exposure of 2.8 billion to the Groups participation in the Asset Protection Scheme APS which Ireland, Spain, Italy, Portugal Greece and Cyprus largely net HFT debt has now been terminated.
In that context, as part of the terms of the securities exposure to Italy and Spain.
State Aid approval, the Group, together with HM Treasury, agreed the terms of a restructuring plan.
526 Additional information The Group is subject to a variety of risks as a result of implementing the The implementation of the State Aid restructuring plan may also result in State Aid restructuring plan, including required asset disposals.
In disruption to the retained business and give rise to significant strain on particular, the Group agreed to undertake a series of measures including management, employee, operational and financial resources, impacting the disposal of a number of businesses now completed, the disposal of customers and employees and giving rise to separation costs which could Direct Line Group DLG and the disposal of the Royal Bank branchbe substantial.
based business in England and Wales and the National Westminster Bank Plc NatWest branches in Scotland, along with the direct and other The implementation of the State Aid restructuring plan may result in the small and medium-size enterprise SME customers and certain midemergence of one or more new viable competitors or a material corporate customers across the UK.
The initial sale of 34.7% of DLG strengthening of one or more of the Groups existing competitors in the through an IPO was completed in October 2012, with further sales in Groups markets.
The effect of this on the Groups future competitive March and September 2013 reducing the Groups stake to 28.5% at yearposition, revenues and margins is uncertain and there could be an end, marking the continuation of the Groups disposal strategy as part of adverse effect on the Groups operations and financial condition and its its on-going delivery against EU-mandated commitments.
In respect of business generally.
the Royal Bank and NatWest branch-based business, the divestment process continues to progress following the withdrawal of its original The occurrence of any of the risks described above could have a material buyer in October 2012 and a pre-IPO investment by a consortium of adverse effect on the Groups business, results of operations, financial investors was announced in September 2013.
The Group is currently in condition, capital position and competitive position.
discussions with HM Treasury and the EC in relation to certain matters, including the potential retirement of the Dividend Access Share.
HM Treasury or UK Financial Investments Limited UKFI on its behalf may be able to exercise a significant degree of influence over the Group There is no assurance that the price that the Group receives or has and any proposed offer or sale of its interests may affect the price of received for any assets sold pursuant to the State Aid restructuring plan securities issued by the Group will be or has been at a level the Group considers adequate or which it The UK Government, through HM Treasury, currently holds 63.9% of the could obtain in circumstances in which the Group was not required to sell issued ordinary share capital of the Group.
On 22 December 2009, the such assets in order to implement the State Aid restructuring plan or if Group issued 25.5 billion of B Shares to the UK Government.
The B such sale were not subject to the restrictions contained in the terms Shares are convertible, at the option of the holder at any time, into thereof.
Further, if the Group fails to complete any of the required ordinary shares.
The UK Government has agreed that it shall not disposals within the agreed timeframes for such disposals, or fails to exercise the rights of conversion in respect of the B Shares if and to the negotiate extensions in respect of such disposals, under the terms of the extent that following any such conversion it would hold more than 75% of State Aid approval, a divestiture trustee may be empowered to conduct the total issued shares in the Group.
Any breach of this agreement could the disposals, with the mandate to complete the disposal at no minimum result in the delisting of the Group from the Official List of the UK Listing price.
Authority and potentially other exchanges where its securities are currently listed and traded.
HM Treasury or the UKFI on its behalf may Furthermore, if the Group is unable to comply with the terms of the State sell all or a part of the ordinary shares that it owns at any time.
Any offers Aid approval, it could constitute a misuse of aid.
In circumstances where or sale of a substantial number of ordinary shares or securities the EC doubts that the Group is complying with the terms of the State Aid convertible or exchangeable into ordinary shares by or on behalf of HM approval, it may open a formal investigation.
At the conclusion of any Treasury, or an expectation that it may undertake such an offer or sale, such investigation, if the EC decided that there had been misuse of aid, it could negatively affect prevailing market prices for securities issued by could issue a decision requiring HM Treasury to recover the misused aid, the Group.
which could have a material adverse impact on the Group.
In addition, UKFI manages HM Treasurys shareholder relationship with In implementing the State Aid restructuring plan, the Group has lost, and the Group and, although HM Treasury has indicated that it intends to will continue to lose, existing customers, deposits and other assets both respect the commercial decisions of the Group and that the Group will directly through sale and potentially through the impact on the rest of the continue to have its own independent board of directors and Groups business arising from implementing the State Aid restructuring management team determining its own strategy, should its current plan and the potential for realising additional associated revenues and intentions change, HM Treasurys position as a majority shareholder and margins that it otherwise might have achieved in the absence of such UKFIs position as manager of this shareholding means that HM disposals.
Treasury or UKFI may be able to exercise a significant degree of influence over, among other things, the election of directors and The disposal of Global Merchant Services and RBS Sempra appointment of senior management, dividend policy, remuneration policy, Commodities reduced the Groups assets by approximately 13.0 billion or limiting the Groups operations.
The manner in which HM Treasury or and 2.4 billion, respectively based on total assets immediately prior to UKFI exercises HM Treasurys rights as majority shareholder could give disposal.
The quantum of assets and deposits that would be included in rise to conflict between the interests of HM Treasury and the interests of a divestment of the Royal Bank branch-based business in England and other shareholders.
The Board has a duty to promote the success of the Wales and the NatWest branches in Scotland is not certain.
However, at Group for the benefit of its members as a whole.
31 December 2013, this business included approximately 19.4 billion of assets, 23.2 billion of deposits and two million customers.
527 Additional information Risk factors continued Since 1 January 2014, the Group has been required to comply with the The Group is subject to other global risks requirements of CRD IV, the EBAs RTSs and ITSs and the PRAs Policy By virtue of the Groups global presence, the Group is exposed to risks Statement PS 7 13 Strengthening capital standards: implementing CRD arising out of geopolitical events, such as the existence of trade barriers, IV, feedback and final rules.
The Group must also operate by reference the implementation of exchange controls and other measures taken by to the capital and leverage requirements set out by the PRA in its sovereign governments that can hinder economic or financial activity supervisory statement SS3 13 issued in November 2013 which is levels.
Furthermore, unfavourable political, military or diplomatic events, applicable to the eight major UK banks and building societies.
armed conflict, pandemics and terrorist acts and threats, and the response to them by governments could also adversely affect levels of The provisions of PS7 13 embody PRA requirements to accelerate the economic activity and have an adverse effect upon the Groups business, introduction and phasing in of certain transitional provisions of CRD IV.
financial condition and results of operations.
The policy statement also sets out the intent of the PRA in respect of capital buffers as well as the approach to so-called Pillar 2 risks.
By their The Groups business performance could be adversely affected if its nature, Pillar 2A risks, which contribute to the scaling of the Groups capital is not managed effectively or as a result of changes to capital Individual Capital Guidance from the PRA, can include risks which the adequacy and liquidity requirements Group considers would only materialise at the point of non-viability, an Effective management of the Groups capital is critical to its ability to example being pension obligation risk.
PS7 13 does not recognise this operate its businesses, and to pursue its strategy of returning to distinction and requires that Pillar 2A risks are met by at least 56% of standalone strength.
The Group is required by regulators in the UK, the CET1 by 1 January 2015.
US and other jurisdictions in which it undertakes regulated activities to maintain adequate capital resources.
The maintenance of adequate The Banking Reform Act 2013, implementing the ICB recommendations, capital is also necessary for the Groups financial flexibility in the face of will introduce mechanisms requiring systemically important UK banks and continuing turbulence and uncertainty in the global economy and building societies to hold loss-absorbing capacity, in addition to the specifically in its core UK, US and European markets.
capital held to satisfy their capital requirements under CRD IV as implemented by the PRA.
These requirements, as well as other The Basel Committee on Banking Supervisions package of reforms to recommendations of the ICB, are to be established through secondary the regulatory capital framework raises the quantity and quality of capital legislation and are expected to be phased in between 2015 and 2019. required to be held by a financial institution with an emphasis on The US Federal Reserve has also recently adopted new rules relating to Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 capital and introduces an additional how it will regulate the US operations of foreign banking operations such requirement for both a capital conservation buffer and a countercyclical as the Group that may affect the capital requirements of the Groups buffer to be met with CET1 capital.
The Basel Committee also has operations in the US.
As the implementation of the ICB recommendations proposed that global systemically important banks GSIBs be subject to is the subject of secondary legislation not yet adopted and the Federal an additional CET1 capital requirement, depending on a banks systemic Reserve has only recently adopted its final rules, the Group cannot importance.
The Group has been identified by the Financial Stability predict the impact such rules will have on the Groups overall capital Board FSB as a GSIB.
The FSB list of GSIBs is updated annually, requirements or how they will affect the Groups compliance with based on new data and changes to methodology.
The November 2013 applicable capital and loss absorbency requirements.
update placed the Group in the second from bottom bucket of GSIBs, subjecting it to more intensive oversight and supervision and requiring to To the extent the Group has estimated the indicative impact that CRD IV have additional loss absorption capacity of 1.5% in CET1, to be phased rules may have on its risk-weighted assets and capital ratios, such in from the beginning of 2016. estimates are preliminary and subject to uncertainties and may change.
In particular, the estimates assume mitigating actions will be taken by the The Basel III rules are dependent on local implementation.
The EU Group such as deleveraging of legacy positions and securitisations, legislative package of proposals to implement the changes with a new including RCR as well as other actions being taken to fide-risk market and Directive and Regulation collectively known as CRD IV was finalised in counterparty exposures, which may not occur as anticipated, in a timely June 2013 paving the way for implementation of Basel III in the EU from manner, or at all.
1 January 2014, subject to a number of transitional provisions and clarifications.
A number of the requirements introduced under CRD IV will The Basel Committee changes and other future changes to capital be further supplemented through the Regulatory and Implementing adequacy and liquidity requirements in the European Union, the UK, the Technical Standards RTSs ITSs produced by the European Banking US and in other jurisdictions in which the Group operates, including any Authority EBA which are not yet finalised.
The EU rules deviate from the application of increasingly stringent stress case scenarios by the Basel III rules in certain aspects e. g. in imposing an additional systemic regulators in the UK, the US and other jurisdictions in which the Group risk buffer, and provide national flexibility to apply more stringent undertakes regulated activities, may require the Group to raise additional prudential requirements than set in the EU or Basel framework.
Tier 1 including CET1 and Tier 2 capital by way of further issuances of securities, and may result in existing Tier 1 and Tier 2 securities issued by the Group ceasing to count towards the Groups regulatory capital, either at the same level as at present or at all.
528 Additional information The requirement to raise additional CET1 capital, which could be Rating agencies continue to evaluate the rating methodologies applicable mandated by the Groups regulators, could have a number of negative to UK and European financial institutions and any change in such rating consequences for the Group and its shareholders, including impairing the agencies methodologies could materially adversely affect the credit Groups ability to pay dividends on, or make other distributions in respect ratings of Group companies.
Any further reductions in the long-term or of, ordinary shares and diluting the ownership of existing shareholders of short-term credit ratings of RBSG or one of its principal subsidiaries the Group.
If the Group is unable to raise the requisite Tier 1 and Tier 2 particularly the Royal Bank would increase its borrowing costs, require capital, it may be required to reduce further the amount of its riskthe Group to replace funding lost due to the downgrade, which may weighted assets or total assets and engage in the disposal of core and include the loss of customer deposits, and may also limit the Groups other non-core businesses, which may not occur on a timely basis or access to capital and money markets and trigger additional collateral achieve prices which would otherwise be attractive to the Group.
requirements in derivatives contracts and other secured funding arrangements.
At 31 December 2013, a simultaneous one notch longAt 31 December 2013, the Groups Tier 1 and Core Tier 1 capital ratios term and associated short-term downgrade in the credit ratings of RBSG were 13.1% and 10.9%, respectively, calculated in accordance with PRA and the Royal Bank by the three main ratings agencies would have requirements.
On a fully loaded Basel III basis, the Groups equivalent required the Group to post estimated additional collateral of 10 billion, CET1 ratio was 8.6%.
The Group continues to target a fully loaded Basel without taking account of mitigating action by management.
III CET1 ratio of approximately 11% by the end of 2015 and to be at 12% or above by the end of 2016.
The Groups ability to achieve such targets Any downgrade in the UK Governments credit ratings could adversely will turn on a number of factors, including the implementation of the affect the credit ratings of Group companies and may have the effects Groups strategy which calls for a significant downsizing of the Group in noted above.
In December 2012, Standard & Poors placed the UKs AAA part through the sale of RBS Citizens in the U. S. See Forward looking credit rating on credit watch, with negative outlook and, in February 2013, Statements and The Groups ability to implement its new strategic plan Moodys downgraded the UKs credit rating one notch to Aa1.
Credit and achieve its capital goals depends on the success of the Groups ratings of RBSG, the Royal Bank, The Royal Bank of Scotland N. V. RBS plans to refocus on its core strengths and the timely divestment of RBS N. V., Ulster Bank Limited and RBS Citizens are also important to the Citizens.
Group when competing in certain markets, such as over-the-counter derivatives.
As a result, any further reductions in RBSGs long-term or Any change that limits the Groups ability to manage effectively its short-term credit ratings or those of its principal subsidiaries could balance sheet and capital resources going forward including, for adversely affect the Groups access to liquidity and its competitive example, reductions in profits and retained earnings as a result of writeposition, increase its funding costs and have a material adverse impact downs or otherwise, increases in risk-weighted assets, regulatory on the Groups earnings, cash flow and financial condition.
changes, actions by regulators, delays in the disposal of certain key assets or the inability to syndicate loans as a result of market conditions, The Groups ability to meet its obligations including its funding a growth in unfunded pension exposures or otherwise, to implement its commitments depends on the Groups ability to access sources of capital plan or to access funding sources, could have a material adverse liquidity and funding effect on its financial condition and regulatory capital position.
Liquidity risk is the risk that a bank will be unable to meet its obligations, including funding commitments, as they fall due.
This risk is inherent in The Groups borrowing costs, its access to the debt capital markets and banking operations and can be heightened by a number of factors, its liquidity depend significantly on its and the UK Governments credit including an over reliance on a particular source of wholesale funding ratings including, for example, short-term and overnight funding, changes in The credit ratings of RBSG, RBS and other Group members have been credit ratings or market-wide phenomena such as market dislocation and subject to change and may change in the future, which could impact their major disasters.
Credit markets worldwide, including interbank markets, cost of, access to and sources of financing and liquidity.
A number of UK have experienced severe reductions in liquidity and term-funding during and other European financial institutions, including RBSG, the Royal prolonged periods in recent years.
Although credit markets continued to Bank and other Group members, have been downgraded multiple times improve during 2013 in part as a result of measures taken by central during the last three years in connection with rating methodology banks around the world, including the ECB, and the Groups overall changes, a review of systemic support assumptions incorporated into liquidity position remained strong, certain European banks, in particular bank ratings and the likelihood, in the case of UK banks, that the UK from the peripheral countries of Spain, Portugal, Greece, Italy and Government is more likely in the future to make greater use of its Ireland, remained reliant on central banks as one of their principal resolution tools to allow burden sharing with debt holders.
Most recently sources of liquidity.
Although the measures taken by Central Banks have credit ratings of RBSG, the Royal Bank and other Group members were had a positive impact, the risk of volatility returning to the global credit downgraded in connection with the Groups creation of RCR, coupled markets remains.
with concerns about execution risk, litigation risk and the potential for conduct related fines.
Furthermore, subject to any mitigating factors, uncertainties resulting from an affirmative vote in favour of Scottish independence would be likely to have a negative impact on the credit ratings of RBSG and the Royal Bank.
529 Additional information Risk factors continued The regulatory capital treatment of certain deferred tax assets recognised The market perception of bank credit risk has changed significantly as a by the Group depends on there being no adverse changes to regulatory result of the financial crisis and banks that are deemed by the market to requirements be riskier have had to issue debt at a premium.
Any uncertainty regarding While there was no restriction on the recognition of deferred tax assets at the perception of credit risk across financial institutions may lead to 31 December 2013, the Capital Requirements Regulation, which took reductions in levels of interbank lending and associated term maturities effect from 1 January 2014, requires the deduction in full from CET1 and may restrict the Groups access to traditional sources of funding or capital of deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability and do not increase the costs of accessing such funding.
The ability of the Groups arise from temporary differences for example, deferred tax assets regulator to bail-in senior debt which may be exercised as soon as either related to trading losses.
Other deferred tax assets which rely on future the provisions of the Banking Reform Act 2013 are implemented through profitability and arise from temporary differences are subject to a secondary legislation or the RRD comes into effect, may also increase threshold test and only the amount in excess of the threshold is deducted investors perception of risk and hence affect the availability and cost of from CET1 capital.
The PRA has not adopted the transitional provisions funding for the Group.
in relation to the change in the treatment of deferred tax assets and therefore the threshold deduction has the potential to impact CET1 The Groups liquidity and funding management focuses, among other capital from 1 January 2014. things, on maintaining a diverse and appropriate funding strategy for its assets in line with the Groups wider strategic plan.
The Group has, at Each of the Groups businesses is subject to substantial regulation and times, been required to rely on shorter-term and overnight funding with a oversight.
Significant regulatory developments and changes in the consequent reduction in overall liquidity, and to increase its recourse to approach of the Groups key regulators has had and is likely to continue liquidity schemes provided by central banks.
Such schemes require the to have a material adverse effect on how the Group conducts its business pledging of assets as collateral and changes to asset valuations or and on its results of operations and financial condition eligibility criteria can negatively impact the available assets and reduce The Group is subject to extensive financial services laws, regulations, available liquidity access particularly during periods of stress when such corporate governance requirements, administrative actions and policies lines may be needed most.
Although conditions have improved, there in each jurisdiction in which it operates.
Many of these have been have been recent periods where corporate and financial institution changing and are subject to further change, particularly in the current counterparties have reduced their credit exposures to banks and other regulatory and market environment, where there have been financial institutions, limiting the availability of these sources of funding.
unprecedented levels of government intervention including Under certain circumstances, the Group may need to seek funds from nationalisations and injections of government capital, changes to the alternative sources potentially at higher costs than has previously been regulations governing financial institutions and reviews of the industry, in the case, and or with higher collateral or may be required to consider the UK, in many other European countries, the US and at the EU level.
disposals of other assets not previously identified for disposal to reduce As a result of the environment in which the Group operates, increasing its funding commitments.
regulatory focus in certain areas and ongoing and possible future changes in the financial services regulatory landscape including The Group relies on customer deposits to meet a considerable portion of requirements imposed by virtue of the Groups participation in its funding and it has targeted maintaining a loan to deposit ratio of government or regulator-led initiatives, the Group is facing greater around 100%.
The level of deposits may fluctuate due to certain factors regulation and scrutiny in the UK, the US and other countries in which it outside the Groups control, such as a loss of confidence, increasing operates including in relation to compliance with anti-bribery, anti-money competitive pressures for retail customer deposits or the encouraged or laundering, anti-terrorism and other similar sanctions regimes.
mandated repatriation of deposits by foreign wholesale or central bank depositors, which could result in a significant outflow of deposits within a Although it is difficult to predict with certainty the effect that all of the short period of time.
An inability to grow, or any material decrease in, the recent regulatory changes, developments and heightened levels of public Groups deposits could, particularly if accompanied by one of the other and regulatory scrutiny will have on the Group, the enactment of factors described above, have a material adverse impact on the Groups legislation and regulations in the UK and the EU, the other parts of ability to satisfy its liquidity needs.
Europe in which the Group operates and the US such as the bank levy and Banking Reform Act 2013 in the UK, the RRD and CRD IV or the The occurrence of any of the risks described above could have a material Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in the US adverse impact on the Groups financial condition and results of has resulted in increased capital and liquidity requirements, changes in operations.
other regulatory requirements and increased operating costs and has impacted, and will continue to impact, products offerings and business models.
The Group may not be able to meet increased capital requirements by reducing lending which could result in the Group being obliged to continue to deploy capital in less profitable areas than it might otherwise have chosen.
Such changes may also result in an increased number of regulatory investigations and proceedings.
Any of these developments could have an impact on how the Group conducts its business, applicable authorisations and licences, the products and services it offers, its reputation, the value of its assets, and a material adverse effect on its funding costs and its results of operations and financial condition.
530 Additional information Areas in which, and examples of where, governmental policies, Changes in laws, rules or regulations, or in their interpretation or regulatory and accounting changes and increased public and regulatory enforcement, or the implementation of new laws, rules or regulations, scrutiny could have an adverse impact some of which could be material including contradictory laws, rules or regulations by key regulators in on the Group include those set out above as well as the following: different jurisdictions, may have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition and results of operations.
In addition, the monetary, fiscal, interest rate and other policies of central banks uncertainty and lack of international regulatory coordination as enhanced and other governmental or regulatory bodies: supervisory standards are developed and implemented may adversely affect the Groups ability to engage in effective business, capital and risk requirements to separate retail banking from investment banking: management planning.
restrictions on proprietary trading and similar activities within a The Group is subject to a number of regulatory initiatives which may commercial bank and or a group which contains a commercial bank: adversely affect its business.
The Independent Commission on Bankings final report on competition and structural reforms in the UK banking restructuring certain of the Groups non-retail banking activities in industry has been substantially adopted by the UK Government through jurisdictions outside the UK in order to satisfy local capital, liquidity the passage of the Banking Reform Act 2013.
In addition other proposals and other prudential requirements: to ring fence certain business activities and the US Federal Reserves proposal for applying US capital, liquidity and enhanced prudential the design and potential implementation of government mandated standards to certain of the Groups US operations together with the UK recovery, resolution or insolvency regimes: reforms could require structural changes to the Groups business.
Any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on the Group.
the imposition of government imposed requirements and or related The UK Government published a White Paper on Banking Reform in fines and sanctions with respect to lending to the UK SME market September 2012, outlining proposed structural reforms in the UK banking and larger commercial and corporate entities and residential industry.
The measures proposed were drawn in large part from the mortgage lending: recommendations of the ICB, which was appointed by the UK Government in June 2010.
The ICB published its final report to the requirements to operate in a way that prioritises objectives other Cabinet Committee on Banking Reform on 12 September 2011, which set than shareholder value creation: out the ICBs views on possible reforms to improve stability and competition in UK banking.
The final report made a number of changes to financial reporting standards including accounting recommendations, including in relation to i promotion of competition, ii standards, corporate governance requirements, corporate increased loss absorbency including bail-in and iii the implementation structures and conduct of business rules: of a ring-fence of retail banking operations.
the imposition of restrictions on the Groups ability to compensate its The measures in relation to the promotion of competition are already senior management and other employees: largely in process, including the development of an industry mechanism to make it easier for customers to switch their personal current accounts regulations relating to, and enforcement of, anti-bribery, anti-money to a different provider, which was introduced in September 2013. laundering, anti-terrorism or other similar sanctions regimes: Bail-in mechanisms, will, if used, affect the rights of creditors, including rules relating to foreign ownership, expropriation, nationalisation and holders of senior and subordinated bonds, and shareholders in the event confiscation of assets: of the implementation of a resolution scheme or an insolvency and could thereby materially affect the price of such securities.
Such mechanics are other requirements or policies affecting the Groups profitability, being implemented through the Banking Reform Act 2013 and will also be such as the imposition of onerous compliance obligations, further part of the RRD.
The implementation of a ring-fence of retail banking restrictions on business growth, product offering, capital, liquidity or operations is also included in the Banking Reform Act 2013.
The Banking pricing: Reform Act 2013 provides primary enabling legislation in the short term with a view to completing the legislative framework for the ring-fence of the introduction of, and changes to, taxes, levies or fees applicable retail banking operations by May 2015, requiring compliance as soon as to the Groups operations such as the imposition of a financial practicable thereafter and setting a final deadline for full implementation transaction tax and changes in tax rates that reduce the value of by 2019. deferred tax assets : and the regulation or endorsement of credit ratings used in the EU whether issued by agencies in EU member states or in other countries, such as the US.
531 Additional information Risk factors continued As a result of the adoption of the ring-fence proposals in the UK and the The impact of any final legislation on the Group is difficult to estimate with potential adoption of the other proposals described above, major changes any precision at this stage.
The Statutory Instruments setting out the to the Groups corporate structure, its business activities conducted in the scope of the ring-fence required by the Banking Reform Act 2013 are UK and the US and potentially other jurisdictions where the Group currently under discussion and final versions are expected to be operates, as well as changes to the Groups business model, are likely to published at some point in the summer of 2014.
The PRA will have be required.
The changes include ring-fencing certain core banking responsibility for drawing up the ring-fencing rules which will impact on activities in the UK from other activities of the Group as well as the governance and operation of the ring-fenced bank.
It is understood restructuring other operations within the Group in order to comply with that the first consultation on the PRA rules will commence around the these proposed new rules and regulations.
The proposals, when adopted, summer of 2014.
It is also likely that ring-fencing certain of the Groups are expected to take an extended period of time to put into place, to be operations would require significant restructuring with the possible costly to implement and may lack harmonisation, all of which could have transfer of large numbers of customers between legal entities.
Ringa material adverse effect on the Groups structure, reputation, results of fencing is also likely to entail changes to the structure of the Groups operations, financial condition and prospects.
existing pension arrangements, so as to ensure that any ring-fenced and non-ring-fenced banks that may eventually be established should not be The Group is subject to resolution procedures under current and liable for each others pension liabilities.
Any such changes could result in proposed resolution and recovery schemes which may result in various additional costs and increased operational risks.
It is possible that such actions being taken in relation to any securities of the Group, including ring-fencing, by itself, or taken together with the impact of other proposals the write off, write-down or conversion of the Groups securities contained in this legislation and other EU legislation that will apply to the As a result of its status as a GSIFI and in accordance with current and Group could have a material adverse effect on the Groups structure and proposed resolution and recovery schemes and the Prudential Standards on the viability of certain businesses, in addition to the Groups results of issued by the PRA on 19 December 2013 on recovery and resolution operations, financial conditions and prospects.
planning, the Group was required to meet certain resolution planning requirements contemplating its possible failure by the end of 2012 and On 29 January 2014, the EC published proposals on structural measures 2013 and will be required to meet others in 2014.
The Group made the to improve the resilience of EU credit institutions which included potential required submissions in 2012 to the Financial Services Authority FSA separation of certain trading activities from retail banking operations.
The now the PRA and its US business made their required submissions to proposal currently contemplates that member states having already the Federal Reserve and the FDIC in H1 2013 and further submissions implemented ring-fencing legislation, such as the UK, may apply for a will be required to be made in 2014.
Similar to other major financial derogation from the separation of trading activities provisions included in institutions, both the Group and its key subsidiaries remain engaged in a the proposals if they can satisfy the EC that such local legislation meets constructive dialogue on resolution and recovery planning with key the objectives and requirements set out in the EU proposal.
The timeline national regulators and other authorities.
The Prudential Standards envisaged under the proposals would be the effective separation of other issued by the PRA may evolve over time to ensure continued consistency trading activities to apply as of 1 July 2018. with the Financial Stability Boards FSB recommendations and the technical standards and guidelines produced by the European Banking Under the US Federal Reserves new rules which change how it Authority to implement the RRD.
regulates the US operations of large foreign banking groups the FBO Rules, foreign banking organisations with total global consolidated In addition to the powers provided by the Banking Act 2009, as amended assets of $50 billion or more Large FBOs and Large FBOs with total by the Banking Reform Act 2013, that include a bail-in power which could US assets of $50 billion or more excluding assets of US branches and be implemented prior to January 2015, resolution powers will also be agencies of a Large FBOs foreign banks and certain other US included in the RRD.
The EU Member States, the European Parliament subsidiaries will have to create a separately capitalised top-tier US and the EC reached a political agreement as announced on 12 intermediate holding company IHC that would hold all US bank and December 2013 on the RRD which remains subject to technical non-bank subsidiaries.
The IHC would be subject to US capital, liquidity finalisation and formal approval by the co-legislators and current and other enhanced prudential standards on a consolidated basis.
expectations are that the RRD will be finalised during the second quarter Among other things, an IHC will be subject to the same US risk based of 2014.
The draft RRD includes a bail-in tool, which would give the and leverage capital standards that apply to a US bank holding company.
relevant supervisory authorities the power to write down or write off claims including debt securities issued by the Group and its subsidiaries The imposition of US capital, liquidity and other enhanced prudential of certain unsecured creditors of a failing institution and or to convert standards, including capital planning and stress testing requirements, on certain debt claims to equity.
Except for the general bail-in tool, which is an IHC of a Large FBO such as the Group that is subject to home country now expected to be implemented by 1 January 2016, it is currently capital standards on a group-wide consolidated basis would likely give contemplated that the measures set out in the draft RRD including the rise to challenging organisational and compliance issues and could make power of authorities to write off or convert Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 it more difficult to manage capital and liquidity efficiently on a global, instruments will be implemented with effect from 1 January 2015. consolidated basis.
The foregoing is only one example of issues that the Group may confront as a result of the application of the FBO Rules to its US operations.
532 Additional information Such bail-in mechanism, which is anticipated to be consistent with the In addition, in June 2012 and more recently in November 2013, computer powers granted under the Banking Reform Act 2013, pursuant to which system failures prevented NatWest, RBS and Ulster Bank customers losses would be imposed on shareholders and, as appropriate, creditors from accessing accounts in both the UK and Ireland.
Ongoing issues including senior creditors of the Group through write-down or relating to the failure continued for several months, requiring the Group to conversion into equity of liabilities including debt securities would be set aside a provision for compensation to customers who suffered losses used to recapitalise and restore the Group to solvency as well as other as a result of the system failure, in addition to other related costs.
See options, including those as set forth in the Banking Act 2009, as amended page 451.
The vulnerabilities of the Groups IT systems are due to the by the Banking Reform Act 2013, following the recommendations of the complexity of the Groups IT infrastructure attributable in part to ICB.
The methods for implementation of any resolution and recovery overlapping multiple legacy systems acquired through the Groups scheme remain the subject of significant debate, particularly for GSIFIs acquisitions and resulting gaps in how the IT systems operate, and with complex cross border activities.
Such debate includes whether the  in IT infrastructure in the past, creating bail-in tool may be exercised through a single point of entry at the holding challenges in recovering from system breakdowns.
company or at various levels of the corporate structure of a GSIFI.
The Groups operations have inherent reputational risk The potential impacts of these resolution and recovery powers may Reputational risk, meaning the risk of brand damage and or financial loss include the total loss of value of securities issued by the Group and, in due to a failure to meet stakeholders expectations of the Groups addition for debt holders, the possible conversion into equity securities, conduct and performance, is inherent in the Groups business.
and under certain circumstances the inability of the Group to perform its Stakeholders include customers, investors, rating agencies, employees, obligations under its securities.
As these resolution and recovery suppliers, government, politicians, regulators, special interest groups, measures remain subject to further implementation both at the European consumer groups, media and the general public.
Brand damage can be and UK level, changes may be made in the course of the legislative detrimental to the business of the Group in a number of ways, including process, which may affect their impact on the Group and securities its ability to build or sustain business relationships with customers, low issued by the Group.
staff morale, regulatory censure or reduced access to, or an increase in the cost of, funding.
In particular, negative public opinion resulting from The Groups operations are highly dependent on its information the actual or perceived manner in which the Group conducts its business technology systems activities, the Groups financial performance, the level of direct and The Groups operations are dependent on the ability to process a very indirect government support or actual or perceived practices in the large number of transactions efficiently and accurately while complying banking and financial industry may adversely affect the Groups ability to with applicable laws and regulations where it does business.
The proper keep and attract customers and, in particular, corporate and retail functioning of the Groups payment systems, financial and sanctions depositors.
Modern technologies, in particular online social networks and controls, risk management, credit analysis and reporting, accounting, other broadcast tools which facilitate communication with large audiences customer service and other information technology systems, as well as in short time frames and with minimal costs, may significantly enhance the communication networks between its branches and main data and accelerate the impact of damaging information and allegations.
The processing centres, are critical to the Groups operations.
Critical system Group cannot ensure that it will be successful in avoiding damage to its failure, any prolonged loss of service availability or any material breach of business from reputational risk, which may result in a material adverse data security, particularly involving confidential customer data, could effect on the Groups financial condition, results of operations and cause serious damage to the Groups ability to service its clients, could prospects.
result in significant compensation costs, could breach regulations under which the Group operates and could cause long-term damage to the The Group may suffer losses due to employee misconduct Groups business and brand.
The Groups businesses are exposed to risk from potential noncompliance with policies, employee misconduct or negligence and fraud, For example, failure to protect the Groups operations from cyber-attacks which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or could result in the loss of customer data or other sensitive information.
financial harm to the Group.
In recent years, a number of multinational During 2013, the Group experienced a number of IT failures following a financial institutions, including the Group, have suffered material losses series of deliberate attacks which temporarily prevented RBS, RBS due to the actions of employees.
It is not always possible to deter Citizens and NatWest customers from accessing their accounts or employee misconduct and the precautions the Group takes to prevent making payments.
The Bank of England, the FCA and HM Treasury have and detect this activity may not always be effective.
identified cyber security as a systemic risk to the UK financial sector and highlighted the need for financial institutions to improve resilience to cyber-attacks.
In addition to meeting the requirements of the Bank of Englands programme of work to improve and test financial institutions resilience to cyber-attacks due to be completed during the first quarter of 2014, the Group expects greater regulatory engagement on cyber security in the future.
Although the Group has been implementing remedial actions to improve its resilience to the increasing intensity and sophistication of cyber-attacks, the Group expects to be the target of continued attacks in the future and there can be no assurance that the Group will be able to prevent all threats.
533 Additional information Risk factors continued In these circumstances, the Group could be obliged, or may choose, to The Groups earnings and financial condition have been, and its future make additional contributions to the schemes.
Given the recent economic earnings and financial condition may continue to be, materially affected and financial market difficulties and the risk that such conditions may by depressed asset valuations resulting from poor market conditions occur again over the near and medium term, the Group could experience Severe market events have resulted in the Group recording large writeincreasing pension deficits or be required or elect to make further downs on its credit market exposures in recent years.
Any deterioration in contributions to its pension schemes and such deficits and contributions economic and financial market conditions or continuing weak economic could be significant and have an adverse impact on the Groups results of growth could lead to further impairment charges and write-downs.
The most recent tri-annual funding Moreover, market volatility and illiquidity and the assumptions, valuation, at 31 March 2010 was agreed during 2011.
It showed the value judgements and estimates in relation to such matters that may change of liabilities exceeded the value of assets by 3.5 billion at 31 March over time and may ultimately not turn out to be accurate make it difficult 2010, a ratio of assets to liabilities of 84%.
to value certain of the Groups exposures, for example, the assets included in the CRG.
Valuations in future periods, reflecting, among In order to eliminate this deficit, the Group has been and will continue to other things, the then prevailing market conditions and changes in the pay additional contributions each year over the period 2011 until 2018. credit ratings of certain of the Groups assets, may result in significant Contributions started at 375 million per annum in 2011, increased to changes in the fair values of the Groups exposures, including in respect 400 million per annum in 2013 and will further increase from 2016 of exposures, such as credit market exposures, for which the Group has onwards in line with price inflation.
These contributions are in addition to previously recorded write-downs.
In addition, the value ultimately realised the regular annual contributions of around 200 million for on-going by the Group may be materially different from the current or estimated fair accrual of benefits as well as contributions to meet the expenses of value.
As part of the Groups strategy it has materially reduced the size of running the schemes.
its balance sheet mainly through the sale and run-off of non-core assets.
Certain of the Groups assets that were part of its Non-Core division The Banking Reform Act 2013 will require banks to ring-fence specific together with additional assets identified as part of a HM Treasury review, activities principally retail and small business deposits from certain other form part of CRG as of 1 January 2014.
In connection with the activities.
Ring-fencing is likely to entail changes to the structure of the establishment of CRG, the Group has indicated its clear aspiration to Groups existing defined benefit pension schemes, which could affect remove the vast majority, if not all of these assets within three years assessments of the schemes deficits.
Such assessments may also be which has led to increased impairments of 4.5 billion which were affected by other measures introduced in the Banking Reform Act 2013, recognised in Q4 2013.
Despite these impairments, these assets may be including the categorisation of deposits eligible for compensation under difficult to sell and could be subject to further write-downs or, when sold, the Financial Services Compensation Scheme as preferential debts.
Any of these factors could require the Group to recognise further significant write-downs or realise increased impairment charges, The financial performance of the Group has been, and continues to be, which may have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, materially affected by counterparty credit quality and deteriorations could results of operations and capital ratios.
In addition, steep falls in arise due to prevailing economic and market conditions and legal and perceived or actual asset values have been accompanied by a severe regulatory developments reduction in market liquidity, as exemplified by losses in recent years The Group has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, arising out of asset-backed collateralised debt obligations, residential and risks arising from actual or perceived changes in credit quality and mortgage-backed securities and the leveraged loan market.
In dislocated the recoverability of monies due from borrowers and counterparties are markets, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as inherent in a wide range of the Groups businesses.
In particular, the effective as they are in normal market conditions due in part to the Group has significant exposure to certain individual counterparties in decreasing credit quality of hedge counterparties.
weakened business sectors and geographic markets and also has concentrated country exposure in the UK, the US and across the rest of The Group may be required to make further contributions to its pension Europe principally Germany, The Netherlands, Ireland and France at schemes if the value of pension fund assets is not sufficient to cover 31 December 2013 credit risk assets in the UK were 320.0 billion, in potential obligations North America 96.1 billion and in Western Europe excluding the UK The Group maintains a number of defined benefit pension schemes for 104.3 billion : and within certain business sectors, namely personal past and a number of current employees.
Pension risk is the risk that the finance, financial institutions, shipping and commercial real estate at 31 assets of the Groups various defined benefit pension schemes which are December 2013 personal finance lending amounted to 177.1 billion, long-term in nature do not fully match the timing and amount of the lending to financial institutions was 91.0 billion, lending against ocean schemes liabilities, as a result of which the Group is required or chooses going vessels was 8.6 billion and commercial real estate lending was to make additional contributions to the schemes.
The Group expects its exposure to the UK to increase liabilities vary with changes to long-term interest rates, inflation, proportionately as its business becomes more concentrated in the UK, pensionable salaries and the longevity of scheme members as well as with exposures generally being reduced in other parts of its business as it changes in applicable legislation.
The schemes assets comprise continues to implement its strategy.
investment portfolios that are held to meet projected liabilities to the The credit quality of the Groups borrowers and counterparties is scheme members.
Risk arises from the schemes because the value of impacted by prevailing economic and market conditions and by the legal these asset portfolios, returns from them and any additional future and regulatory landscape in their respective markets.
contributions to the schemes, may be less than expected and because there may be greater than expected increases in the estimated value of the schemes liabilities.
534 Additional information A further deterioration in economic and market conditions or changes to Changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit spreads, bond, legal or regulatory landscapes could worsen borrower and counterparty equity and commodity prices, basis, volatility and correlation risks and credit quality and also impact the Groups ability to enforce contractual other market factors have significantly affected and will continue to affect security rights.
In addition, the Groups credit risk is exacerbated when the Groups business and results of operations the collateral it holds cannot be realised or is liquidated at prices not Some of the most significant market risks the Group faces are interest sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure that rate, foreign exchange, credit spread, bond, equity and commodity prices is due to the Group, which is most likely to occur during periods of and basis, volatility and correlation risks.
Changes in interest rate levels illiquidity and depressed asset valuations, such as those experienced in or extended periods of low interest rates such as experienced over the recent years.
This has been particularly the case with respect to large past several years, yield curves which remain depressed and spreads parts of the Groups commercial real estate portfolio.
Any such losses may affect the interest rate margin realised between lending and could have an adverse effect on the Groups results of operations and borrowing costs, the effect of which may be heightened during periods of financial condition.
Changes in currency rates, particularly in the sterling-US dollar and sterling-euro exchange rates, affect the value of assets, Concerns about, or a default by, one financial institution could lead to liabilities, income and expenses denominated in foreign currencies and significant liquidity problems and losses or defaults by other financial the reported earnings of the Groups non-UK subsidiaries and may affect institutions, as the commercial and financial soundness of many financial the Groups reported consolidated financial condition or its income from institutions may be closely related as a result of credit, trading, clearing foreign exchange dealing.
For accounting purposes, the Group values and other relationships.
Even the perceived lack of creditworthiness of, or some of its issued debt, such as debt securities, at the current market questions about, a counterparty may lead to market-wide liquidity price.
Factors affecting the current market price for such debt, such as problems and losses for, or defaults by, the Group.
This systemic risk the credit spreads of the Group, may result in a change to the fair value may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, of such debt, which is recognised in the income statement as a profit or clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges with which the loss.
Group interacts on a daily basis, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups access to liquidity or could result in losses The performance of financial markets affects bond, equity and commodity which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial prices, which has caused, and may in the future cause, changes in the condition, results of operations and prospects.
value of the Groups investment and trading portfolios.
As part of its ongoing derivatives operations, the Group also faces significant basis, In certain jurisdictions in which the Group does business, particularly volatility and correlation risks, the occurrence of which are also impacted Ireland, additional constraints have been imposed in recent years on the by the factors noted above.
ability of certain financial institutions to complete foreclosure proceedings in a timely manner or at all, including as a result of interventions by While the Group has implemented risk management methods to mitigate certain states and local and national governments.
and control these and other market risks to which it is exposed, it is difficult to predict with accuracy changes in economic or market These constraints have lengthened the time to complete foreclosures, conditions and to anticipate the effects that such changes could have on increased the backlog of repossessed properties and, in certain cases, the Groups financial performance and business operations.
have resulted in the invalidation of purported foreclosures.
The value or effectiveness of any credit protection that the Group has The EU, the ECB, the International Monetary Fund and various national purchased depends on the value of the underlying assets and the authorities have proposed and implemented certain measures intended financial condition of the insurers and counterparties to address systemic financial stresses in the Eurozone, including the The Group has credit exposure arising from over-the-counter derivative creation of a European Banking Union which, through a Single Resolution contracts, mainly credit default swaps CDSs, and other credit Mechanism SRM will apply the substantive rules of bank recovery and derivatives, each of which are carried at fair value.
The fair value of these resolution set out in the RRD.
Current expectations are that the RRD, CDSs, as well as the Groups exposure to the risk of default by the which is intended to provide supervisory authorities with common tools underlying counterparties, depends on the valuation and the perceived and powers to address banking crises pre-emptively in order to safeguard credit risk of the instrument against which protection has been bought.
financial stability and minimise taxpayers exposure to losses, will be Many market counterparties have been adversely affected by their finalised early in 2014.
The effectiveness of these and other actions exposure to residential mortgage linked and corporate credit products, proposed and implemented at both the EU and national level to address whether synthetic or otherwise, and their actual and perceived systemic stresses in the Eurozone is not assured.
If the financial condition of these The trends and risks affecting borrower and counterparty credit quality counterparties or their actual or perceived creditworthiness deteriorates, have caused, and in the future may cause, the Group to experience the Group may record further credit valuation adjustments on the credit further and accelerated impairment charges, increased repurchase protection bought from these counterparties under the CDSs.
The Group demands, higher costs, additional write-downs and losses for the Group also recognises any fluctuations in the fair value of other credit and an inability to engage in routine funding transactions.
Any such adjustments or fair value changes may have a material adverse impact on the Groups financial condition and results of operations.
535 Additional information Risk factors continued In certain circumstances, the data for individual financial instruments or In the UK and in other jurisdictions, the Group is responsible for classes of financial instruments utilised by such valuation models may not contributing to compensation schemes in respect of banks and other be available or may become unavailable due to prevailing market authorised financial services firms that are unable to meet their conditions.
In such circumstances, the Groups internal valuation models obligations to customers require the Group to make assumptions, judgements and estimates to In the UK, the Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS was establish fair value, which are complex and often relate to matters that established under the FSMA and is the UKs statutory fund of last resort are inherently uncertain.
These assumptions, judgements and estimates for customers of authorised financial services firms.
The FSCS can pay will need to be updated to reflect changing facts, trends and market compensation to customers if a firm is unable or likely to be unable, to conditions.
The resulting change in the fair values of the financial pay claims against it and may be required to make payments either in instruments has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect connection with the exercise of a stabilisation power or in exercise of the on the Groups earnings and financial condition.
bank insolvency procedures under the Banking Act 2009.
The FSCS is The Groups results could be adversely affected in the event of goodwill funded by levies on firms authorised by the FCA, including the Group.
In impairment the event that the FSCS raises funds from the authorised firms, raises The Group capitalises goodwill, which is calculated as the excess of the those funds more frequently or significantly increases the levies to be cost of an acquisition over the net fair value of the identifiable assets, paid by such firms, the associated costs to the Group may have an liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Acquired goodwill is adverse impact on its results of operations and financial condition.
In recognised initially at cost and subsequently at cost less any addition, the RRD will require the establishment of national resolution accumulated impairment losses.
As required by IFRS, the Group tests funds, which will require ex ante levies on banks and investment firms to goodwill for impairment annually, or more frequently when events or ensure that the resolution tools contemplated by the RRD can be applied circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
involves comparing the recoverable amount the higher of the value in To the extent that other jurisdictions where the Group operates have use and fair value less cost to sell of an individual cash generating unit introduced or plan to introduce similar compensation, contributory or with its carrying value.
At 31 December 2013, the Group carried goodwill reimbursement schemes such as in the US with the Federal Deposit of 10.1 billion on its balance sheet.
The value in use and fair value of the Insurance Corporation, the Group may make further provisions and may Groups cash generating units are affected by market conditions and the incur additional costs and liabilities, which may have an adverse impact performance of the economies in which the Group operates.
Where the on its financial condition and results of operations.
Group is required to recognise a goodwill impairment, it is recorded in the Groups income statement, although it has no effect on the Groups The value of certain financial instruments recorded at fair value is regulatory capital position.
Any significant write-down of goodwill could determined using financial models incorporating assumptions, have a material adverse effect on the Groups results of operations.
judgements and estimates that may change over time or may ultimately not turn out to be accurate The recoverability of certain deferred tax assets recognised by the Group Under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, the Group depends on the Groups ability to generate sufficient future taxable profits recognises at fair value: i financial instruments classified as held-forIn accordance with IFRS, the Group has recognised deferred tax assets trading or designated as at fair value through profit or loss: ii financial on losses available to relieve future profits from tax only to the extent that assets classified as available-for-sale: and iii derivatives.
it is probable that they will be recovered.
The deferred tax assets are quantified on the basis of current tax legislation and accounting standards Generally, to establish the fair value of these instruments, the Group and are subject to change in respect of the future rates of tax or the rules relies on quoted market prices or, where the market for a financial for computing taxable profits and allowable losses.
Failure to generate instrument is not sufficiently active, internal valuation models that utilise sufficient future taxable profits or changes in tax legislation or accounting observable market data.
standards may reduce the recoverable amount of the recognised deferred tax assets.
In April 2011, the UK Government commenced a staged reduction in the rate of UK corporation tax from 28% to 23% over a four-year period and further rate reductions were announced in 2012 and 2013 which will lead to a corporation tax rate of 20% by April 2015.
Such changes in the applicable tax rates will reduce the recoverable amount of the recognised deferred tax assets.
