Shareholder information 538 Financial calendar 538 Shareholder enquiries 539 Analyses of ordinary shareholders 540 Trading market 543 Dividend history 544 Taxation for US Holders 547 Exchange controls 547 Memorandum and Articles of Association 547 Incorporation and registration 548 Abbreviations and acronyms 549 Glossary of terms 557 EDTF recommendations 558 Index 561 Important addresses 561 Principal offices 537 Shareholder information Financial calendar Dividends Annual General Meeting 25 June 2014 Payment dates RBS Conference Centre Cumulative preference shares 30 May and 31 December 2014 RBS Gogarburn Edinburgh EH12 1HQ Non-cumulative preference shares 31 March, 30 June, 30 September and 31 December 2014 Ex-dividend date Interim results 1 August 2014 Cumulative preference shares 30 April 2014 Record date Cumulative preference shares 2 May 2014 For further information on the payment of dividends, see page 543.
Shareholder enquiries Braille and audio Strategic report with additional information Shareholdings in the company may be checked by visiting the Shareholders requiring a Braille or audio version of the Strategic report Shareholder centre section of our website, rbs.
You will need the with additional information should contact the Registrar on 44 0 870 shareholder reference number printed on your share certificate or tax 702 0135. voucher to gain access to this information.
ShareGift Listed below are the most commonly used features on the website: The company is aware that shareholders who hold a small number of shares may be retaining these shares because dealing costs make it holding enquiry - view balances, values, history, payments and uneconomical to dispose of them.
ShareGift, the charity share donation reinvestments: scheme, is a free service operated by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation registered charity 1052686 to enable shareholders to donate shares to address change - change your registered address: charity.
e-Comms sign-up - choose to receive email notification when your Donating your shares in this way will not give rise to either a gain or a shareholder communications become available instead of paper loss for UK capital gains tax purposes and you may be able to reclaim UK communications: income tax on gifted shares.
Further information can be obtained from HM Revenue & Customs.
outstanding payments - reissue any uncashed payments using our online replacement service: and Should you wish to donate your shares to charity in this way you should contact ShareGift for further information: downloadable forms - including stock transfer and change of address forms.
ShareGift, The Orr Mackintosh Foundation 17 Carlton House Terrace, London SW1Y 5AH You may also check your shareholding by contacting our Registrar: Telephone: 44 0 20 7930 3737 Website:www.
org Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZZ Telephone: 44 0 870 702 0135 Fax: 44 0 870 703 6009 Website: www.
co. uk contactus 538 Shareholder information Share fraud warning Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have contact scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or nondetails on the Register or you are told they are out of date.
existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an upfront payment.
While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at way you will probably lose your money.
uk scams Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised firm you contact you out of the blue with an offer to buy or sell shares.
will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Do not get into a conversation, note the name of the person and firm contacting you and then end the call.
Think about getting independent financial and professional advice before you hand over any money.
Check the Financial Services Register at www.
uk to see if the person and firm contacting you is authorised by the FCA.
Remember if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.
Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, copying Report a scam its website or giving you false contact details.
If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams, where you can find out Use the firms contact details listed on the Register if you want to more about investment scams.
You can also call the FCA Consumer call it back.
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
"Analyses of ordinary shareholders Number of shares At 31 December 2013 Shareholdings - millions % Individuals 200,686 123.9 2.0 Banks and nominee companies 11,988 6,013.2 96.9 Investment trusts 105 3.8 0.1 Insurance companies 111 0.4 - Other companies 1,014 18.0 0.3 Pension trusts 25 0.9 - Other corporate bodies 89 42.8 0.7 214,018 6,203.0 100.0 Range of shareholdings: 1 - 1,000 184,830 46.6 0.8 1,001 - 10,000 27,384 62.5 1.0 10,001 - 100,000 1,152 31.2 0.5 100,001 - 1,000,000 437 150.4 2.4 1,000,001 - 10,000,000 172 544.7 8.8 10,000,001 and over 43 5,367.6 86.5 214,018 6,203.0 100.0 539 Shareholder information Trading market Non-cumulative dollar preference shares On 26 March 1997, 8 February 1999, 30 September 2004, 26 August 2004, 19 May 2005, 9 November 2005, 25 May 2006, 27 December 2006, 28 June 2007, 27 September 2007 and 4 October 2007, the company issued the following series of American Depository Shares ADSs representing noncumulative dollar preference shares of the company, in the United States, of which the following were outstanding at 31 December 2013: 6,255,408 Series F ""Series F ADSs"" representing 6,255,408 non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series F: 9,687,654 Series H ""Series H ADSs"" representing 9,687,654 non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series H: 30,027,877 Series L ""Series L ADSs"" representing 30,027,877 non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series L: 23,125,869 Series M Series M ADSs representing 23,125,869 non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series M: 22,113,160 Series N ""Series N ADSs"" representing 22,113,160 non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series N: 9,883,307 Series P ""Series P ADSs"" representing 9,883,307 non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series P: 20,646,938 Series Q ""Series Q ADSs"" representing 20,646,938 non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series Q: 10,163,932 Series R ""Series R ADSs"" representing 10,163,932 non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series R: 26,449,040 Series S ""Series S ADSs"" representing 26,449,040 non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series S: 51,245,839 Series T ""Series T ADSs"" representing 51,245,839 non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series T: and 10,130 Series U ""Series U ADSs"" representing 10,130 non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series U."
Each of the respective ADSs set out above represents the right to receive PROs one corresponding preference share, and is evidenced by an American In August 2001, the company issued US$1.2 billion perpetual regulatory Depository Receipt ADR and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, tier one securities PROs in connection with a public offering in the a subsidiary of NYSE Euronext NYSE.
The PROs are listed on the NYSE.
The ADRs evidencing the ADSs above were issued pursuant to Deposit ADSs representing ordinary shares Agreements, among the company, The Bank of New York, as depository, In October 2007, the company listed ADSs, each representing one and all holders from time-to-time of ADRs issued thereunder.
Currently, ordinary share nominal value 25p each or a right to receive one ordinary there is no non-United States trading market for any of the share, and evidenced by an ADR or uncertificated securities, on the non-cumulative dollar preference shares.
All of the non-cumulative dollar NYSE.
The ADSs were issued in connection with the company's bid for preference shares are held by the depository, as custodian, in bearer the outstanding share capital of ABN AMRO Holding N. V.. With effect form.
from 7 November 2008, the ratio of one ADS representing one ordinary share changed to one ADS representing 20 ordinary shares.
In May 2010, the Group redeemed certain subordinated debt securities and equity preference shares in exchange for cash or senior debt, At the Annual General Meeting on 30 May 2012, shareholders approved resulting in the number of securities in issue reducing to the amounts a sub-division and consolidation of the Groups ordinary shares which shown above.
resulted in new ordinary shares of 100 pence each being admitted to trading in London and New York with effect from 6 June 2012.
The ratio At 31 December 2013, there were 54 registered shareholders of Series F of one ADS representing 20 ordinary shares changed to one ADS ADSs, 34 registered shareholders of Series H ADSs, 21 registered representing two ordinary shares with effect from 6 June 2012.
As at 31 shareholders of Series L ADSs, 6 registered shareholders of Series M December 2013, 30.6 million ADSs were outstanding.
ADSs, 13 registered shareholders of Series N ADSs, 24 registered shareholders of Series P ADSs, 9 registered shareholders of Series Q The ADSs described above were issued pursuant to a Deposit ADSs, 3 registered shareholders of Series R ADSs, 1 registered Agreement, among the company, The Bank of New York Mellon, as shareholder of Series S ADSs, 18 registered shareholders of Series T depository, and all owners and holders from time to time of ADSs issued ADSs and 1 registered shareholder of Series U ADSs.
The ordinary shares of the company are listed and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
All ordinary shares are deposited with the principal London office of The Bank of New York Mellon, as custodian for the depository.
540 Shareholder information The following table shows, for the periods indicated, the high and low sales prices for each of the outstanding ADSs representing non-cumulative dollar preference shares and PROs, as reported on the NYSE or NASDAQ.
541 Shareholder information Trading market continued Ordinary shares The following table shows, for the periods indicated, the high and low sales prices for the company's ordinary shares, as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange.
Following the sub-division and one-for-ten consolidation of ordinary shares, which took effect in June 2012, prices prior to that date were restated accordingly.
ADSs The following table shows, for the periods indicated, the high and low sales prices for the company's ordinary ADSs, as reported on the NYSE composite tape.
On 25 February 2014, the closing price of the ordinary ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange was $12.05.
On 26 November 2009, RBS entered into a State Aid Commitment Deed On 4 May 2012, RBS determined that it was in a position to recommence with HM Treasury containing commitments and undertakings that were payments on RBS Group instruments.
In June 2013 RBS Holdings N. V. designed to ensure that HM Treasury was able to comply with the resumed payments on its hybrid capital instruments.
Future coupons and dividends on hybrid capital instruments will only be paid subject to, and in commitments to be given by it to the European Commission for the purposes of obtaining approval for the State aid provided to RBS.
As part accordance with, the terms of the relevant instruments.
of these commitments and undertakings, RBS agreed not to pay For further information, see Note 7 on the consolidated accounts.
discretionary coupons and dividends on its existing hybrid capital instruments for a period of two years.
This period commenced on 30 April 2010 for RBS Group instruments and ended on 30 April 2012: the two Ordinary dividends The company has not paid an ordinary dividend since 2007.
In 2008, the year deferral period for RBS Holdings N. V. instruments commenced on 1 April 2011 and ended on 1 April 2013. company issued new ordinary shares by way of a capitalisation issue rather than paying an interim dividend.
543 Shareholder information Taxation for US Holders Ordinary shares, ordinary ADSs and preference ADSs The following discussion summarises certain US federal and UK tax Taxation of dividends consequences of the ownership and disposition of ordinary shares, ADSs For the purposes of the Treaty, the Estate Taxation Treaty and the US representing ordinary shares ordinary ADSs, ADSs representing nonInternal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended the Code, US Holders of cumulative dollar preference shares preference ADSs or PROs by a ordinary ADSs and preference ADSs should be treated as owners of the beneficial owner that is a citizen or resident of the United States or that respective ordinary shares and the non-cumulative dollar preference otherwise will be subject to US federal income tax on a net income basis shares underlying such ADSs.
in respect of the ordinary shares, ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs a US Holder.
This summary assumes that a US Holder is The US Treasury has expressed concerns that parties to whom holding ordinary shares, ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs, as depositary receipts are released before shares are delivered to the applicable, as capital assets.
This summary does not address the tax depositary, or intermediaries in the chain of ownership between US consequences to a US Holder i that is resident in the UK for UK tax holders and the issuer of the security underlying the depositary receipts, purposes, ii that carries on a trade, profession or vocation through a may be taking actions that are inconsistent with the claiming of foreign branch, agency or permanent establishment in the UK in connection with tax credits for US holders of depositary receipts.
Such actions would also which their ordinary shares, ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs be inconsistent with the claiming of the favourable US tax rates are held, used or acquired, or iii generally, that is a corporation which applicable to dividends received by certain non-corporate US holders alone or together with one or more associated companies, controls, described below.
Accordingly, the availability of the favourable tax rates directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of the company, nor for dividends received by certain non-corporate US holders could be does this summary address all of the tax consequences to US Holders affected by actions taken by such parties or intermediaries.
subject to special rules, such as certain financial institutions, dealers or traders in securities who use a mark-to-market method of tax accounting, The company is not required to withhold UK tax at source from dividend persons holding ordinary shares, ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or payments it makes or from any amount including any amounts in respect PROs as part of a hedging transaction, straddle, wash sale, conversion of accrued dividends distributed by the company.
US Holders who are transaction or integrated transaction or persons entering into a not resident in the UK and who do not carry on a trade, profession or constructive sale with respect to such securities, persons liable for the vocation in the UK through a branch, agency or permanent establishment alternative minimum tax or the Medicare contribution tax on net in connection with which their ordinary shares, ordinary ADSs or investment income, persons whose functional currency for US federal preference ADSs are held, used or acquired will not be subject to UK tax income tax purposes is not the US dollar, entities classified as in respect of any dividends received on the relevant shares or ADSs.
partnerships for US federal income tax purposes, tax-exempt entities, persons that own or are deemed to own 10% or more of the voting stock Distributions by the company other than certain pro-rata distributions of of the company.
ordinary shares or rights to receive such shares will constitute foreign source dividend income for US federal income tax purposes to the extent The statements and practices set forth below regarding US and UK tax paid out of the current or accumulated earnings and profits of the laws, including the US UK double taxation convention relating to income company, as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
Because and capital gains which entered into force on 31 March 2003 the the company does not maintain calculations of its earnings and profits Treaty and the US UK double taxation convention relating to estate and under US federal income tax principles, it is expected that distributions gift taxes the Estate Taxation Treaty, are based on those laws and will be reported to US Holders as dividends.
Payments will not be eligible practices as in force and as applied in practice on the date of this report.
for the dividends-received deduction generally allowed to corporate US This summary is not exhaustive of all possible tax considerations and holders.
holders are advised to satisfy themselves as to the overall tax consequences, including specifically the consequences under US federal, Subject to applicable limitations that vary depending upon a US Holders state, local and other laws, and possible changes in taxation law, of the particular circumstances and the discussion above regarding concerns acquisition, ownership and disposition of ordinary shares, ordinary ADSs, expressed by the US Treasury, dividends paid to certain non-corporate preference ADSs or PROs by consulting their own tax advisers.
US Holders may be taxable at the favourable rates applicable to longterm capital gain.
Non-corporate US Holders should consult their own tax The following discussion assumes that the company was not for the advisers to determine whether they are subject to any special rules that taxable year ended 31 December 2013, and will not become in the limit their ability to be taxed at these favourable rates.
foreseeable future, a passive foreign investment company see Passive Foreign Investment Company PFIC considerations on page 547.
544 Shareholder information Dividends will be included in a US Holders income on the date of the US Estate and gift tax Holders or in the case of ADSs, the depositarys receipt of the dividend.
Subject to the discussion of the Estate Tax Treaty in the following The amount of any dividend paid in pounds sterling to be included in paragraph, ordinary shares, ordinary ADSs or preference ADSs income by a US Holder will be the US dollar amount calculated by beneficially owned by an individual may be subject to UK inheritance tax reference to the relevant exchange rate in effect on the date of such subject to exemptions and reliefs on the death of the individual or in receipt regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into US certain circumstances, if such shares or ADSs are the subject of a gift dollars.
If the dividend is converted into US dollars on the date of receipt, including a transfer at less than market value by such individual.
the US Holder generally should not be required to recognise foreign Inheritance tax is not generally chargeable on gifts to individuals made currency gain or loss in respect of the dividend income.
If the amount of more than seven years before the death of the donor.
Ordinary shares, such dividend is converted into US dollars after the date of receipt, the ordinary ADSs or preference ADSs held by the trustees of a settlement US Holder may have foreign currency gain or loss.
may also be subject to UK inheritance tax.
Special rules apply to such settlements.
Taxation of capital gains A US Holder that is not resident in the UK will not normally be liable for An ordinary share, an ordinary ADS or a preference ADS beneficially UK tax on capital gains realised on the disposition of an ordinary share, owned by an individual, whose domicile is determined to be the United an ordinary ADS or a preference ADS unless at the time of the disposal, States for purposes of the Estate Tax Treaty and who is not a national of in the case of a corporate US Holder, such US Holder carries on a trade the UK, will not be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individuals death in the UK through a permanent establishment or, in the case of any other or on a lifetime transfer of such share or ADS, except in certain cases US Holder, such US Holder carries on a trade, profession or vocation in where the share or ADS i is comprised in a settlement unless, at the the UK through a branch or agency and, in each case, such ordinary time of the settlement, the settlor was domiciled in the United States and share, ordinary ADS or preference ADS is or has been used, held or was not a national of the UK : ii is part of the business property of a UK acquired by or for the purposes of such trade or profession or vocation, permanent establishment of an enterprise: or iii pertains to a UK fixed carried on through such permanent establishment, branch or agency.
base of an individual used for the performance of independent personal Special rules apply to individuals who are temporarily not resident in the services.
The Estate Tax Treaty generally provides a credit against US UK.
federal estate or gift tax liability for the amount of any tax paid in the UK in a case where the ordinary share, ordinary ADS or preference ADS is A US Holder will, upon the sale or other disposition of an ordinary share, subject to both UK inheritance tax and US federal estate or gift tax.
an ordinary ADS or a preference ADS, or upon the redemption of preference ADS, generally recognise capital gain or loss for US federal UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax SDRT income tax purposes assuming that in the case of a redemption of a The following is a summary of the UK stamp duty and SDRT preference ADS, such US Holder does not own, and is not deemed to consequences of transferring an ADS otherwise than to the custodian on own, any ordinary shares or ordinary ADSs of the company in an amount cancellation of the ADS or of transferring an ordinary share.
A transfer of equal to the difference between the amount realised excluding in the an ADS executed and retained in the United States will not give rise to case of a redemption any amount treated as a dividend for US federal stamp duty and an agreement to transfer an ADS will not give rise to income tax purposes, which will be taxed accordingly and the US SDRT.
Stamp duty or SDRT will normally be payable on or in respect of Holders tax basis in such share or ADS.
This capital gain or loss will be transfers of ordinary shares and accordingly any holder that acquires or long-term capital gain or loss if the US Holder held the share or ADS so intends to acquire ordinary shares is advised to consult its own tax sold, disposed or redeemed for more than one year.
The deductibility of adviser in relation to stamp duty and SDRT.
capital losses is subject to limitations.
A US Holder who is liable for both UK and US tax on a gain recognised on the disposal of an ordinary share, an ordinary ADS or a preference ADS may be entitled, subject to certain limitations, to credit the UK tax against its US federal income tax liability in respect of such gain.
545 Shareholder information Taxation for US Holders continued However, a US Holder who is entitled under the Treaty to a refund of UK PROs tax, if any, withheld on a payment will not be entitled to claim a foreign tax United States credit with respect to the refundable tax.
Payments of interest on a PRO including any UK withholding tax, as to which see below will constitute foreign source dividend income for US Any paying agent or other person by or through whom interest is paid to, federal income tax purposes to the extent paid out of the current or or by whom interest is received on behalf of an individual, may be accumulated earnings and profits of the company, as determined for US required to provide information in relation to the payment and the federal income tax purposes.
Because the company does not maintain individual concerned to HM Revenue & Customs.
HM Revenue & calculations of its earnings and profits under US federal income tax Customs may communicate this information to the tax authorities of other principles, it is expected that distributions will be reported to US Holders jurisdictions.
Payments will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction generally allowed to corporate US holders.
A US Holder who is HM Revenue & Customs confirmed at around the time of the issue of the entitled under the Treaty to a refund of UK tax, if any, withheld on a PROs that interest payments would not be treated as distributions for UK payment will not be entitled to claim a foreign tax credit with respect to tax purposes by reason of i the fact that interest may be deferred under the refundable tax.
Subject to applicable limitations that vary depending the terms of issue: or ii the undated nature of the PROs, provided that at upon a US Holders particular circumstances and the discussion above the time an interest payment is made, the PROs are not held by a regarding concerns expressed by the US Treasury, dividends paid to company which is associated with the company or by a funded certain non-corporate US Holders may be taxable at the favourable rates company.
A company will be associated with the company if, broadly applicable to long-term capital gain.
Non-corporate US Holders should speaking, it is part of the same group as the company.
A company will be consult their own tax advisers to determine whether they are subject to a funded company for these purposes if there are arrangements any special rules that limit their ability to be taxed at these favourable involving that company being put in funds directly or indirectly by the rates.
company, or an entity associated with the company.
In this respect, HM Revenue & Customs has confirmed that a company holding an interest in A US Holder will, upon the sale, exchange or redemption of a PRO, the PROs which incidentally has banking facilities with any company generally recognise capital gain or loss for US federal income tax associated with the company will not be a funded company by virtue of purposes assuming that in the case of a redemption, such US Holder such facilities.
does not own, and is not deemed to own, any ordinary shares or ordinary ADSs of the company in an amount equal to the difference between the Interest on the PROs constitutes UK source income for UK tax purposes amount realised excluding any amount in respect of mandatory interest and, as such, may be subject to income tax by direct assessment even and any missed payments which are to be satisfied on a missed payment where paid without withholding.
However, interest with a UK source satisfaction date, which would be treated as ordinary income and the US received without deduction or withholding on account of UK tax will not be Holders tax basis in the PRO.
chargeable to UK tax in the hands of a US Holder unless, in the case of a corporate US Holder, such US Holder carries on a trade in the UK A US Holder who is liable for both UK and US tax on gain recognised on through a UK permanent establishment or in the case of other US the disposal of PROs may be entitled, subject to certain limitations, to Holders, such persons carry on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK credit the UK tax against all or a portion of its US federal income tax through a branch or agency in each case in connection with which the liability in respect of such gain.
interest is received or to which the PROs are attributable.
There are also exemptions for interest received by certain categories of agents such as United Kingdom some brokers and investment managers.
Taxation of payments on the PROs Payments on the PROs will constitute interest rather than dividends for EU Directive on taxation of savings income UK withholding tax purposes.
However, the PROs constitute quoted Under the European Union Council Directive 2003 48 EC on the taxation eurobonds within the meaning of section 987 of the Income Tax Act 2007 of savings income, member states of the European Union are required to and therefore payments of interest will not be subject to withholding or provide to the tax authorities of other member states details of payments deduction for or on account of UK tax as long as the PROs remain at all of interest and other similar income paid by a person to an individual or times listed on a recognised stock exchange within the meaning of certain other persons resident in another member state, except that section 1005 of the Income Tax Act 2007, such as the main market of the Luxembourg and Austria may instead impose a withholding system for a New York Stock Exchange.
In all other cases, an amount must be transitional period unless during such period they elect otherwise.
On withheld on account of UK income tax at the basic rate currently 20% April 10, 2013, the Luxembourg Ministry of Finance announced that subject to any direction to the contrary by HM Revenue & Customs under Luxembourgs transitional period will end with effect from January 1, the Treaty and except that the withholding obligation does not apply to 2015. payments to persons who the company reasonably believes are within the charge to corporation tax or fall within various categories enjoying a Disposal including redemption special tax status including charities and pension funds, or are A disposal including redemption of PROs by a non-corporate US Holder partnerships consisting of such persons unless HM Revenue & Customs will not give rise to any liability to UK tax on capital gains unless the US directs otherwise.
Where interest has been paid under deduction of UK Holder carries on a trade which for this purpose includes a profession or withholding tax, US Holders may be able to recover the tax deducted a vocation in the UK through a branch or agency and the PROs are, or under the Treaty.
have been, held or acquired for the purposes of that trade, carried on through such branch or agency.
546 Shareholder information A transfer of PROs by a US Holder will not give rise to a charge to UK tax The company's possible status as a PFIC is determined annually, on accrued but unpaid interest payments, unless the US Holder is an however, and may be subject to change if the company fails to qualify individual or other non-corporate taxpayer and at any time in the relevant under this special rule for any year in which a US Holder owns ordinary year of assessment or accounting period carries on a trade, profession or shares, ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs.
If the company were vocation in the UK through a branch or agency to which the PROs are to be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a US Holder attributable.
owned ordinary shares, ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs, the US Holder would generally be subject to adverse US federal income tax Annual tax charges consequences and certain reporting obligations.
Holders should consult Corporate US Holders of PROs may be subject to annual UK tax charges their own tax advisers as to the potential application of the PFIC rules to or tax relief by reference to fluctuations in exchange rates and in the ownership and disposition of the company's ordinary shares, ordinary respect of profits, gains and losses arising from the PROs, but only if ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs.
such corporate US Holders carry on a trade in the UK through a UK permanent establishment to which the PROs are attributable.
Information reporting and backup withholding Payments on, and proceeds from the sale of, ordinary shares, ordinary Inheritance tax ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs that are made within the United States In relation to PROs held through Depository Trust Company or any other or through certain U. S-related financial intermediaries may be subject to clearing system, the UK inheritance tax position is not free from doubt in information reporting and backup withholding unless i the US Holder is respect of a lifetime transfer, or death of, a US Holder who is not an exempt recipient or ii in the case of backup withholding, the US domiciled nor deemed to be domiciled in the UK for inheritance tax Holder provides a correct taxpayer identification number and certifies that purposes: HM Revenue & Customs is known to consider that the situs of it is not subject to backup withholding.
The amount of any backup securities held in this manner is not necessarily determined by the place withholding from a payment to a US Holder will be allowed as a credit where the securities are registered.
In appropriate circumstances, there against the US Holders US federal income tax liability and may entitle it may be a charge to UK inheritance tax as a result of a lifetime transfer at to a refund, provided that the required information is timely furnished to less than market value by, or on the death of, such US Holder.
Inheritance tax is not generally chargeable on gifts to individuals made more than seven years before the death of the donor.
However, Foreign financial assets reporting exemption from, or a reduction of, any such UK tax liability may be Certain US Holders who are individuals and under proposed regulations, available under the Estate Tax Treaty see below.
US Holders should certain entities may be required to report information relating to the consult their professional advisers in relation to such potential liability.
companys securities, subject to certain exceptions including an PROs beneficially owned by an individual, whose domicile is determined exception for securities held in accounts maintained by US financial to be the United States for the purposes of the Estate Tax Treaty and institutions.
US Holders are urged to consult their tax advisers regarding who is not a national of the UK, will not be subject to UK inheritance tax the application of these rules in the US Holders particular circumstances.
on the individual's death or on a lifetime transfer of the PRO, except in Exchange controls certain cases where the PRO i is comprised in a settlement unless, at The company has been advised that there are currently no UK laws, the time of the settlement, the settlor was domiciled in the United States decrees or regulations which would prevent the import or export of and was not a national of the UK : ii is part of the business property of a capital, including the availability of cash or cash equivalents for use by UK permanent establishment of an enterprise: or iii pertains to a UK the Group, or the remittance of dividends, interest or other payments to fixed base of an individual used for the performance of independent non-UK resident holders of the company's securities.
The Estate Tax Treaty generally provides a credit against US federal estate or gift tax liability for the amount of any tax paid There are no restrictions under the Articles of Association of the company in the UK in a case where the PRO is subject to both UK inheritance tax or under UK law, as currently in effect, which limit the right of non-UK and US federal estate or gift tax.
resident owners to hold or, when entitled to vote, freely to vote the Stamp duty and SDRT company's securities.
No stamp duty, SDRT or similar tax is imposed in the UK on the issue, Memorandum and Articles of Association transfer or redemption of the PROs.
The company's Memorandum and Articles of Association as in effect at Passive Foreign Investment Company PFIC considerations the date of this annual report are registered with the Registrar of In general, a foreign corporation will be a PFIC for any taxable year in Companies of Scotland.
The Articles of Association were last amended which, after taking into account the income and assets of the corporation on 30 May 2012.
Copies can be obtained from Companies House in the and certain subsidiaries pursuant to applicable 'look-through rules', either UK or from the Groups website rbs.
i at least 75% of its gross income is 'passive income' or ii at least 50% Incorporation and registration of the average quarterly value of its assets is attributable to assets which The company was incorporated and registered in Scotland under the produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income.
Companies Act 1948 as a limited company on 25 March 1968 under the The company does not believe that it was a PFIC for its 2013 taxable name National and Commercial Banking Group Limited, and changed its year.
Although interest income is generally passive income, a special rule name to The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Limited on 3 September allows banks to treat their banking business income as non-passive.
On 10 March 1982 it was re-registered under the Companies Acts qualify for this rule, a bank must satisfy certain requirements regarding its 1948 to 1980 as a public company with limited liability.
The company is licensing and activities.
