Business review Risk and balance sheet management Risk and balance sheet management 175 Risk governance 183 Risk appetite 192 Capital management 209 Liquidity and funding risk 227 Credit risk 268 Balance sheet analysis 318 Market risk 341 Country risk 354 Other risks 174 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Risk governance 176 Governance structure 176 Risk management 177 Conduct and Regulatory Affairs 177 Business model 178 Risk events and lessons learned 179 Top and emerging risk scenarios 181 Stress testing 175 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Presentation of information Group Audit Committee - Reviews accounting policies, financial reporting Except as otherwise indicated by an asterisk, information in the Risk and regulatory compliance practices of the Group, as well as its systems and balance sheet management section pages 174 to 364 is within the and standards of internal controls.
It monitors the Groups processes for scope of the Independent auditors report.
Disclosures in this section internal audit and external audit and relationships with regulatory include disposal groups in relevant exposures unless otherwise indicated.
It operates under delegated authority from the Group Board.
Refer to pages 172 and 173 for the Analysis of balance sheet pre and post disposal groups.
Group Risk Committee - Oversees and acts on material and enterprisewide risk and control matters across the Group.
It reviews and challenges Risk governance risks and limits across the functional areas.
It reviews risks and issues on Governance structure both a thematic and specific basis, focusing on forward-looking, emerging The Group is committed to achieving the highest standards of corporate risks.
It considers the overall risk profile across the Group and identifies governance in every aspect of the business, including risk management.
any key issues for escalation to the Executive Risk Forum.
It operates under delegated authority from the Executive Risk Forum.
A key aspect of the Group Boards responsibility as the main decisionmaking body at Group level is the setting of Group risk appetite to ensure In addition, functional risk committees ensure that effective risk control that the levels of risk the Group is willing to accept in the attainment of its frameworks are in place and that limits are consistent with the Groups strategic business and financial objectives are clearly understood.
Divisional executive committees develop, own and manage divisional risk appetites, ensuring that these are consistent with the The day-to-day management of risk in the Group is carried out through Groups targets.
two independent risk management functions: RBS Risk Management and Group Conduct and Regulatory Affairs, which manage risk through Risk management independent oversight and challenge of both the customer-facing The Group Chief Risk Officer leads RBS Risk Management through the businesses and the support functions.
These risk management functions strategic setting and execution of its responsibilities.
The Group Chief provide an overarching risk control framework linked to the risk appetite Risk Officer reports directly to the Group Chief Executive and the Board of the Group.
For further detail on risk appetite, refer to page 183.
Risk Committee, with a right of access to the Chairman of the Board Risk Committee.
To enable the Group Board to carry out its objectives, it delegates authority to various committees as required and appropriate.
A number of RBS Risk Management is designed to align as closely as possible with key committees specifically consider risk across the Group: the customer-facing businesses and support functions while maintaining an appropriate level of independence.
This underpins the Groups Group Board - Sets and owns the Groups risk appetite, which is approach to risk management and is reinforced through the Group by cascaded across its divisions, functions and material legal entities.
The reporting lines from divisions to RBS Risk Management and from RBS Group Board also sets the Groups strategic direction and carries out Risk Management to senior executives, Boards and Committees.
regular assessments to ensure that strategic plans are consistent with risk appetite.
In RBS Risk Management, the following Group risk functional heads report directly to the Group Chief Risk Officer and are responsible for Board Risk Committee - Provides oversight and advice on current and Group-wide risk appetite and standards under their respective disciplines: potential risk exposures, risk strategy and tolerance.
The Committee also promotes a risk awareness culture within the Group.
Group Head of Operational Risk: Group Executive Committee - Operates under delegated authority from Group Chief Credit Officer: the Group Board and considers emerging issues material to both the Groups strategy and risk exposures.
The Group Executive Committee Head of Enterprise Risk Management: also oversees control frameworks.
Head of Global Country Risk: and Executive Risk Forum - Provides executive input to the Group Board and the Group Executive Committee on risk management issues such as risk Chief Operating Officer, RBS Risk Management.
appetite, risk policies and risk management strategies.
It has full authority to act on all material and or enterprise-wide risk and control matters Risk management in divisions focuses on all material risks including across the Group and implements Group Board and Group Executive credit, market, operational, regulatory, country and business risk refer to Committee risk management decisions.
pages 188 to 191 for further detail of these risks.
Liquidity risk and the day-to-day management of liquidity and funding of the Groups assets is Group Treasurys responsibility refer to page 210.
Oversight of risk in divisions is the responsibility of the relevant divisional Chief Risk Officer CRO, with input from the relevant Group risk function heads.
unaudited 176 Business review Risk and balance sheet management This involves ensuring: 1st line of defence - Business units including all business areas and functions are accountable for owning and managing the risks which exist All activities undertaken by the individual divisions are consistent in their area within a defined risk appetite and framework.
with the Groups risk appetite targets: 2nd line of defence - Independent monitoring and control functions, as Group policies and resulting operating frameworks, including well as Group Policy Standard owners, are accountable for owning and delegated authorities and limits, are complied with through effective developing the risk and control frameworks and tools which the 1st line of monitoring and exception reporting: and defence uses to discharge its responsibilities.
The 2nd line of defence Operation of Group-wide risk processes such as the Group Policy must be appropriately independent from the business and accountable Framework and the New Product Risk Assessment Process are for overseeing and challenging the 1st line of defence on the effective effective.
Divisional CROs report directly to the Group Chief Risk Officer.
3rd line of defence - Group Internal Audit provides independent assurance on the appropriateness of the design and operational The Group Chief Risk Officer has direct involvement in the selection, effectiveness of risk management and internal control processes that appointment or removal of divisional CROs and Group risk function mitigate the Groups key risks.
heads and also has responsibility for their ongoing performance assessment and management.
Business model The Group is a bank serving approximately 24 million retail and corporate Divisions mirror the Group risk management structure: divisional customers worldwide.
UK Retail offers individuals a wide range of executive committees are responsible for setting and managing their traditional retail banking and insurance products, including residential exposures in line with their risk appetite and within Group constraints.
mortgages and credit cards, while UK Corporate provides both small The divisional risk committees oversee risk exposures arising from businesses and large corporations with an extensive range of loan divisional business activities and focus on ensuring that the associated products and transactional services.
Most of the customers of both risks are adequately monitored and controlled.
The divisional CROs divisions are located in the UK.
Wealth provides both banking and provide independent oversight of this process, with support from the investment services to high-net-worth individuals in the UK and overseas, Group Chief Risk Officer and Group risk function heads as appropriate.
while International Banking offers loan products and transactional Additional challenge and oversight is provided by Group risk function services to corporations and financial institutions across a wide range of heads on an ongoing basis and by divisional risk and audit committees countries.
Markets provides corporations and financial institutions in both on a periodic review basis.
For a summary of the main risk types faced by the UK and overseas with investment banking products and services, the Group and how it manages each of them, refer to pages 187 to 191. helping them to hedge exposures to interest rate and foreign exchange risk.
Markets also helps customers structure securitisation transactions Conduct and Regulatory Affairs and issue debt.
Created in August 2013, by amalgamating Group Compliance previously part of RBS Risk Management and RBS Regulatory Affairs formerly part In addition, Ulster Bank and Citizens Bank, offer loan and investment of RBS Legal, Group Conduct and Regulatory Affairs is led by the Group products, as well as transactional services, to individuals and Head of Conduct and Regulatory Affairs, who reports directly to the corporations.
The customers of Ulster Bank are in Ireland while those of Group Chief Executive and the Board Risk Committee, with right of Citizens Bank are in the US.
The Group delivers its products through a access to the Chairman of the Board.
diverse array of channels, including extensive branch networks, in-store branches and call centres, in addition to online and mobile channels.
The following functional heads report directly to the Group Head of Conduct and Regulatory Affairs, each of whom is responsible for the firmIt is the aim of the Group to become a bank that customers, and all other wide risk appetite and standards of their respective disciplines: the Global stakeholders, can depend on.
It intends to do so by focusing on its core Head of Compliance: the Global Head of Financial Crime: and the retail and corporate customers in its main market of the UK.
It plans to Director, RBS Regulatory Affairs.
simplify its products and services as well as the processes it uses to deliver them, enhancing their appeal.
Simplifying processes should also A Chief Compliance Officer in each division reporting to the Global Head lower costs, enabling the bank to provide customers with better products of Compliance provides advisory support to assist the divisions and services at lower prices.
management of conduct, regulatory affairs and financial crime.
Three lines of defence The Groups main sources of earnings are interest income from lending The three lines of defence is an industry-wide model for the management and deposits and fee income from transactional and other services.
of risk, understood as a clear set of principles by which to implement a Given the low interest rate environment in both the UK and the US, its net cohesive operating model across an organisation.
The models main interest margin, that is, the difference between the interest it earns from purpose is to define accountabilities and responsibilities for managing risk lending and the interest it pays on deposits, has been under pressure.
order to offset this pressure, the Group is working to reduce costs and increase non-interest income.
unaudited 177 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Risk governance continued The Groups activities expose it to a number of risks.
The Group is Business model continued pursuing a strategy of reducing the risks it takes while focusing on the Over the last few years, the Group has either exited or sold a number of delivery of products and services to a domestic customer base, giving businesses in order to align its cost structure with its smaller scope and rise to strategic risk.
The delivery of all of its products and services scale.
In addition, it is reducing costs through rationalisation, integration exposes the Group to conduct risk, which has recently materialised in the and simplification.
For example, UK Retail is rationalising its service form of fines and reputational damage, resulting from a failure to treat delivery channels and simplifying the operations that support them, using customers in line with their and other stakeholders expectations.
the resulting cost savings to invest in new technology and providing The Group also faces a range of other risks.
As measured by riskadditional channels for customers such as mobile banking.
A number of weighted assets RWAs, the most significant of these is credit risk, which other divisions are taking similar steps.
consists of counterparty and non-counterparty credit risk.
Credit risk arises from its lending activities in all divisions.
Counterparty credit risk arises from its security financing and derivative trading activities.
This is concentrated in Markets.
RWAs by division The second most significant source of risk is market risk, which arises Risk events and lessons learned from the Groups trading activities traded market risk and from the LIBOR related settlements impact of changes in market prices on the value of its other financial The Group reached settlements with the Financial Services Authority assets and liabilities non-traded market risk.
Traded market risk is FSA in the United Kingdom, the United States Commodity Futures concentrated in Markets while non-traded market risk is distributed Trading Commission CFTC and the United States Department of across the Group and with the exception of US Retail & Commercial and Justice DOJ on 8 February 2013 in relation to investigations into Markets, these divisions transfer this risk to Group Treasury for submissions, communications and procedures around the setting of the management.
London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR.
The Group agreed to pay penalties of 87.5 million, $325 million and $150 million to the FSA, Operational risk, which arises from all of the Groups business activities, CFTC and DOJ respectively.
As part of the settlement with the DOJ, RBS is the third most significant source of risk as measured by RWAs.
Its plc entered into a Deferred Prosecution Agreement on one count of wire importance is increasing as a result of changes driven by regulation as fraud relating to Swiss Franc LIBOR, and one count for an anti-trust well as the Groups strategy.
violation relating to Yen LIBOR.
RBS Securities Japan Limited also agreed to enter a plea of guilty to one count of wire fraud relating to Yen The activities of several divisions, particularly Markets and International LIBOR.
Banking, but also Ulster Bank and US Retail & Commercial, expose the Group to country risk.
Industry-wide investigations were made into the setting of certain Finally, through the activities of all its divisions, the Group is exposed to a benchmark rates across a range of currencies.
Regulators found range of other risks, including pension, business, regulatory and wrongdoing on the part of 21 RBS employees, predominantly in the reputational.
setting of the bank's Yen and Swiss Franc LIBOR submissions.
unaudited 178 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Both before and after these findings were issued, management took The Groups top and emerging risks are as follows: action to strengthen significantly the systems and controls governing its LIBOR submissions: the Group created an independent and ring-fenced Macroeconomic risks rate-setting team: all relevant staff were obliged to undertake a comprehensive training programme: and new preventative and detective i Increased impairments arising from defaults in sectors to which the controls put in place, including monitoring and statistical checking of Group has concentrated exposures, particularly commercial real estate submissions by independent personnel in the Group.
A rate setting and shipping review board was also created to oversee the submission process.
The Group has material exposure to borrowers in a number of sectors, particularly shipping.
This sector has experienced falling revenues and For more information on LIBOR related settlements, refer to page 477. declining asset values.
If global economic growth remains subdued, losses in these sectors may increase unexpectedly.
Any such losses may Payment Protection Insurance be exacerbated by issues related to controls.
Since the judicial review decision in 2011, the Group has worked closely with both the Financial Conduct Authority and the Financial Ombudsman Impact on the Group Service.
It has invested considerable resources in ensuring that all If borrowers default, the value of the Groups collateral may prove Payment Protection Insurance PPI complaints are handled in a fair inadequate to repay the associated debt, leading to increased manner in line with regulatory requirements.
The Group stopped selling impairments.
UK Corporate is likely to be most affected.
PPI in 2010 and has since then made a number of changes to ensure fair customer outcomes and to ensure that the appropriate lessons are Mitigants learned from PPI.
These include substantially simplifying our retail Optimisation of the Groups shipping and a significant proportion of product offering and sales processes including, but not limited to, commercial real estate portfolios is part of Capital Resolution Group protection products, enhancing training for, and controls in relation to, strategy.
customer advisers and improving management information on products sales.
Our product design and approval processes are now also radically ii Increased impairments arising from a more severe than expected different from the time when PPI products were available to customers.
economic downturn The Groups return to profitability depends on the economic recovery of UK Retail and the wider Group are engaged in a wide-ranging conduct its major markets.
If their recovery is slower than expected, the Groups risk programme designed to ensure the focus of our culture is always on return to profitability and private ownership may also be deferred.
All the customer and delivering good customer outcomes.
While this is a divisions could be affected.
long-term project, the Group is confident that it has already resulted in Impact on the Group material changes to the way it conducts business.
A slower than expected recovery would likely result in lower revenues and income, and higher impairments.
It could also result in higher For more information on PPI refer to page 479.
For information on other operational losses.
If such a downturn were prolonged, capital might also litigation, investigations and reviews, refer to pages 474 to 482. be negatively affected.
Top and emerging risk scenarios Mitigants As part of its risk management process, the Group identifies and monitors The Group develops business plans to take into account the possibility of its top and emerging risk scenarios.
These are events that, should they slow economic growth and implemented strategies, such as cost materialise, would lead to a significant unexpected negative outcome, reductions, to reduce its vulnerability.
thereby causing the Group as a whole, or a particular division, to fail to meet one or more strategic objectives.
In assessing the potential impact iii An increase in the Groups obligations to support pension schemes of risk materialisation, the Group takes into account both financial and The Group has established various pension schemes for its employees reputational considerations.
as a result of which it has incurred certain obligations as sponsor of these Management is concerned with a range of risk scenarios.
If economic growth stagnates and interest rates remain low as small number attracted particular attention from senior management a result, the value of pension scheme assets may not be adequate to during the past year.
These were grouped into four broad categories: fund the pension schemes liabilities.
All of the Groups businesses are exposed to this risk.
Macroeconomic risks: Conduct, regulatory and legal risks: Impact on the Group Risks related to the Groups operations: and As asset values were lower and liabilities higher when valued most Political risk.
recently, the Group may be required to set aside additional capital in support of the schemes.
The amount of additional capital required Further information on these and other risks facing the Group is detailed depends on the size of the shortfall when the assets are valued as well in Risk factors on pages 523 to 536. as the efficacy, and acceptability to the regulator, of management actions undertaken to address it.
unaudited 179 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Risk governance continued Impact on the Group Top and emerging risk scenarios continued If the Group sells products to uninformed customers, or fails to handle In addition, the Group may be required to increase its cash contributions complaints well, it may be subject to fines, incur remediation costs or to the schemes.
Similarly, the amount of additional cash contributions even be subject to criminal charges.
It may also suffer significant damage that may be required depends on the size of the shortfall when the assets to its reputation.
If interest rates fall further, the value of the schemes assets may decline while the value of their liabilities increases, leading to a need Mitigants to increase cash contributions.
Although more work needs to be done to mitigate this risk, the Group has simplified some products and stopped offering others.
Where appropriate, Mitigants it has compensated purchasers of some products and services, such as The trustee is responsible for the investment of the main schemes payment protection insurance and certain interest rate hedging products.
assets, which are held separately from the assets of the Group.
Future payments of such compensation would give rise to additional costs.
Conduct, regulatory and legal risks Risks related to the Groups operations i Increased conduct costs and reputational damage arising from a failure to achieve fair customer outcomes.
i Increased losses arising from cyber attacks In order to achieve its strategic objectives, the Group must put the The Group has experienced cyber attacks, which are increasing in customer at the heart of its business.
frequency and severity across the industry.
This risk affects all divisions.
Impact on the Group Impact on the Group Failure to do so would cause the Group to fail to achieve its strategic A successful cyber attack could lead to fraudulent activity or the loss of objectives, which would affect earnings, liquidity, capital and shareholder customer data.
The Group could experience significant losses as a result confidence adversely.
The risk of failure affects all divisions.
of the need to reimburse customers, pay fines or both.
Furthermore, a successful cyber attack could cause significant damage to the Groups Mitigants reputation.
In order to address this risk, during the year the Group continued to embed good conduct at the heart of the business to ensure fair outcomes Mitigants for customers.
The Group has participated in an industry-wide cyber attack simulation.
It has also initiated a large scale programme to improve controls over user ii Losses or reputational damage arising from litigation access.
In addition, it has reviewed its websites and taken steps to Given its diverse operations, the Group is exposed to the risk of litigation.
rationalise them, put additional anti-virus protections in place and taken For example, during the course of 2013, it was subject to shareholder steps to educate staff on information protection.
litigation, securities related litigation, various class actions claims, including those related to LIBOR and foreign exchange trading, and mass ii Increased losses arising from the failure of information technology consumer claims such as those related to Payment Protection Insurance systems and interest rate hedging products.
This risk affects all of the Group's The Groups information technology systems are vulnerable to failure.
Because they are complex, recovering from failure is very challenging.
Impact on the Group Impact on the Group As a result of litigation, the Group may incur fines, be ordered to pay A failure of information technology systems could lead to the Groups damages or other compensation, suffer reputational damage, or face inability to process transactions or provide services to its customers.
limitations on its ability to operate.
For example, in the case of LIBOR, the Should a failure not be rectified promptly, the Group might lose Group agreed to pay settlement penalties to resolve investigations by the customers, be subject to fines, incur remediation costs or face legal European Commission into Yen LIBOR competition infringements and action.
Its reputation might also suffer.
Mitigants Mitigants The Group has launched a major investment programme to improve The Group defends claims against it to the best of its ability and it coresilience, which has already had an impact.
The Group has also operates fully with various governmental and regulatory authorities.
enhanced its back up systems and created a shadow bank capable of providing basic services in the event of need.
Finally, the Group is iii Increased costs arising from a failure to demonstrate compliance with improving the documentation of critical business functions.
existing regulatory requirements related to conduct, particularly with respect to mis-selling The Group is subject to regulation governing the conduct of its business activities.
For example, it must ensure that it sells its products and services only to informed customers.
unaudited 180 Business review Risk and balance sheet management iii Increased costs arising from a failure to execute successfully major Stress testing projects Governance The Group has a number of major projects underway, the successful Stress testing is the evaluation of a banks financial position under severe conclusion of which is essential if it is to meet new regulatory and but plausible stress scenarios.
Stress testing also refers to the broader strategic requirements.
These new requirements affect its organisational framework under which these tests are developed, evaluated and used structure, its business strategies, its information technology systems, its within the Groups decision-making process in the context of the wider operational processes and its product offerings.
Given the number, scale economic environment.
and complexity of these projects, the Group may not complete them successfully, or at all.
The Groups stress testing framework is designed to embed stress testing as a key risk management technique into mainstream risk reporting, Impact on the Group capital planning and business processes at divisional, legal entity and If the Group does not complete these projects successfully, the interests Group levels.
of customers may be affected, necessitating customer redress.
The Group may also incur regulatory fines, lose market share and suffer The Executive Risk Forum refer to Risk governance on page 176 for damage to its reputation.
further information is the main body overseeing the Group's stress testing approach, processes and results.
The forum is primarily Mitigants responsible for reviewing and challenging the results of any Group-wide The Group is working to implement change in line with its project plans stress test and ensuring that, where necessary, appropriate management while assessing the risks to implementation and taking steps to mitigate actions are undertaken.
iv Increased costs due to an inability to recruit or retain suitable staff The Board Risk Committee receives reports detailing stress tests The Group is undergoing significant organisational change, the result of a undertaken as part of the financial planning process.
It reviews and need to implement new business strategies and respond to a changing challenges the stress scenarios and considers their impact on the external environment.
The pace of change, coupled with the associated Group's financial position.
These reports outline relevant management uncertainty may cause experienced staff members to leave the Group actions as well as the extent to which such actions mitigate the effects of and prospective staff members not to join.
Although these risks concern the stress scenario on the Groups capital adequacy.
all divisions, they particularly affect Markets and US Retail & Commercial.
The Board Risk Committee may also request additional stress tests as it Impact on the Group deems necessary.
Stress testing forms part of the Group's risk and If it cannot retain or attract the necessary staff members, the Group may capital management framework and is a major component of the Basel III be unable to implement its business strategies or meet regulatory requirements.
It highlights to senior management potential unexpected requirements on time, or at all.
It may also experience control failures.
adverse outcomes related to a mixture of risks and provides an indication The Groups reputation may suffer as a result.
of how much capital might be required to absorb losses should adverse scenarios materialise.
Mitigants The Group has communicated expected changes in its organisational Scenario selection structure to members of staff, implementing plans aimed at minimising Stress test scenarios target both firm-wide vulnerabilities and negative unexpected staff losses.
The Group is also working to develop and global impacts.
They consider a five year horizon and include stress implement an enhanced recruitment strategy.
projections for macroeconomic variables such as gross domestic product, unemployment rates, property prices, stock price indices, interest rates Political risks and inflation.
The tests include a variety of scenarios, including some featuring an intensification of the eurozones sovereign debt problems.
The Group and the Royal Bank, its principal operating subsidiary, are both headquartered and incorporated in Scotland.
The Scottish Under one of them, there is a severe recession in the UK in 2013 2014, a Government is holding a referendum in September 2014 on the question sharp rise in unemployment and a marked fall in equity prices.
There are of Scottish independence from the UK.
Although the outcome of the downgrades of UK sovereign debt by two notches, and corresponding referendum is uncertain, subject to any mitigating factors, the downgrades for UK banks, including the Group, leading to increased uncertainties resulting from an affirmative vote in favour of independence funding costs and lower levels of lending.
As the economic environment would be likely to significantly impact the Groups credit ratings and could deteriorates, there is market concern about losses in the banking sector.
also impact the fiscal, monetary, legal and regulatory landscape to which the Group is subject.
Were Scotland to become independent, it may also Another test run in 2013 is a high inflation-no growth scenario.
affect Scotlands status in the European Union.
Inflationary pressures surge as a result of the growth in central bank The occurrence of any of the impacts above could significantly impact the balance sheets in recent years.
Sovereign bond yields rise steeply as Groups costs and would have a material adverse effect on the Groups market sentiment sours, and there is a reduction in disposable income business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
and corporate profits, leading to a global recession.
Recovery begins only in late 2014.
As the banks risk profile improves as a result of unaudited deleveraging, it should be better able to withstand extreme stress scenarios.
181 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Risk governance continued Portfolios subject to review Stress testing continued Portfolio specific stress tests assess the reaction of key-focus portfolios Methodologies to systemic shocks and individual risk factors to identify potential Stress testing is part of the financial planning process and is conducted vulnerabilities, including risks that have not yet matured or are not yet and presented to senior management semi-annually.
They assess the potential for outsized losses and the impact of conducted principally to meet regulatory requirements, it is now an rebalancing portfolios.
integral part of enterprise risk management and used to assess the impact of business decisions on the Group's capital position.
External stress tests The Group also takes part in a number of external stress tests.
In 2014 As part of the financial planning and strategy cycle, stress tests are the Group will take part in the Bank of Englands concurrent stress test of conducted by divisions and aggregated to produce firm-wide results.
the UK banking system, as well as an industry-wide external stress test These stress tests are also used for monitoring divisional and Group risk conducted by the European Banking Authority on the European Union appetite.
Risk-type specific stress testing is also conducted.
For example, within the market risk management framework, a comprehensive programme of stress tests covers a variety of historical and hypothetical scenarios.
Reverse stress testing, explicitly identifying and assessing scenarios most likely to render the banks business model unviable, is also conducted as required by the PRA.
In order to cross the business model failure threshold, an instantaneous one year global shock of a similar scale as the 2008 financial crisis is required, but the impact of such a scenario is more likely to be felt over multiple years.
Future revenues, and the gradual disposal of Non-Core assets, would partially offset losses, making failure much less likely.
unaudited 182 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Risk appetite 184 Strategic risk objectives 185 Risk appetite measures 185 - Divisional risk appetite statements 185 - Risk control frameworks and limits 186 Culture, values and remuneration 186 - Objectives for risk culture 186 - Risk culture policies 186 - Training 186 - Challenge mechanisms 186 - Risk-based key performance indicators 187 - Risk coverage 183 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Risk appetite Strategic risk objectives Risk appetite is both a key business tool and an integral part of the Risk management plays an integral role in the delivery of the Groups Groups enterprise-wide approach to risk management.
It is aligned with strategic goal.
The implementation of a stronger and more effective the Groups strategic objectives, aiming to strike an optimal balance culture of risk management and control provides the platform necessary between building a sustainable risk profile and creating long-term value to address vulnerabilities, rebuild on core strengths and position the for the Groups customers, investors and wider stakeholders.
The risk Group on a sustainable and profitable path for future growth.
appetite framework seeks to ensure that each business can withstand significant deteriorations in economic and market conditions.
Financial strength and resilience are at the heart of the Groups strategic plan.
The Group has defined this level of robustness as that which is The Groups risk appetite is set and owned by the Group Board which capable of achieving and sustaining a standalone credit rating i. e. identifies and establishes the level and types of risks the Group is able without government support that is in line with those of its strongest and willing to take in order to meet its: international peers.
Strategic objectives - the Groups strategic plan is built on the core Given this central aim, in 2009 the Group Board set out four key strategic foundations of serving customers well, building a sustainable risk objectives, aligned with the Groups strategic plan.
profile and creating long-term value for its shareholders: and Maintain capital adequacy.
To ensure that the Group has sufficient Wider obligations to stakeholders - a bank that is safe and sound capital resources to meet regulatory requirements and to cover the and puts serving customers at the heart of its thinking will also potential for unexpected losses in its asset portfolio.
perform well for its owners, employees, regulators and communities.
To ensure that strategic growth is Risk appetite is cascaded and embedded across the Group.
The risk based around a longer-term risk versus reward consideration, with appetite framework provides each business with a greater understanding significantly lower volatility in underlying profitability than was seen of acceptable risk levels, aligning commercial strategies with the most during the financial crisis.
effective use of financial resources, such as capital, funding and risk capacity.
Risk appetite provides a solid platform that allows the Group to Ensure stable and efficient access to funding and liquidity.
To focus on its key business strengths and competitive advantages over the ensure that the Group has sufficient funding to meet its obligations, long term.
taking account of the constraint that some forms of funding may not be available when they are most needed.
The Board Risk Committee reviews the Groups risk appetite framework and targets on an annual basis to ensure they remain aligned with Maintain stakeholder confidence.
To ensure that stakeholders have strategic objectives, business performance, emerging risks and changes confidence in the Groups recovery plan, its ability to deliver its in the external environment.
strategic objectives and the effectiveness of its business culture and operational controls.
Each objective is essential in its own right, but also mutually supportive of the others.
The strategic risk objectives are the bridge between the Group-level business strategy and the frameworks, limits and tolerances that are used to set risk appetite and manage risk in the business divisions on a day-to-day basis.
unaudited 184 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Risk appetite measures Economic capital - provides complementary insights, with a breadth Risk appetite starts with the strategic goals and risk philosophy set by the of understanding of risk profile changes and tail risks generated by Group Board and is cascaded through key targets, limits and risk stimulating millions of different scenarios.
tolerances that influence decision making, from the enterprise-wide to the transactional level.
Sensitivity analysis - provides ready reckoners around changes in key variables.
It provides a high-level view on questions such as The risk appetite framework is based on four main pillars: what if gross domestic product worsened by a further 1%, identifying certain tipping points where the Groups risk profile Risk envelope metrics - The Group has set sustainable business moves outside appetite.
goals over a medium-term horizon, including a target for the capital ratio, leverage ratio, loan:deposit ratio, liquidity portfolio and use of More effective processes for reporting the results have also been wholesale funding.
These are the broad boundaries within which the developed, presenting the Board and senior management with a more Group operates.
Non-Core division also acts as a primary driver for holistic and dynamic view of key risk exposures.
reducing risk and the size of the balance sheet.
Divisional risk appetite statements Quantitative risk appetite targets - Risk appetite is also aligned with Risk appetite is set at the Group level then cascaded and embedded potential risk exposures and vulnerabilities under severe but across all business areas.
Each division is required to develop, own and plausible stress conditions.
Quantitative targets, to be met under manage a risk appetite statement aligned with the Groups risk appetite stress conditions, are set around the Groups strategic risk and: objectives for maintaining capital adequacy, delivering stable earnings growth and ensuring stable and efficient access to funding Covers all identified material risks: and liquidity.
Enables each business to understand its acceptable levels of risk: Qualitative risk appetite targets - The fourth strategic risk objective and of maintaining stakeholder confidence covers qualitative aspects relating to the culture of risk management and controls and meeting Ensures that commercial strategies are aligned with the use of stakeholder expectations.
Risk appetite is based around identified available financial resources.
expectations across a range of stakeholders e. g. customers, employees, investors and the general public and is closely aligned By setting a clear risk appetite and embedding a strong risk culture with key risk policies and controls e. g. the Group Policy Framework, throughout its businesses, the Group can identify, measure and control conduct risk and reputational risk.
risk exposures and respond effectively to shocks.
Each division is responsible for ensuring its strategic plans are consistent with its Risk control frameworks and limits - Risk control frameworks set approved risk appetite.
detailed tolerances and limits for material risk types e. g. credit risk, market risk, conduct risk and operational risk that are used to Risk control frameworks and limits manage risk on a day-to-day basis.
These limits support and are Risk control frameworks and their associated limits are an integral part of required to be consistent with the high-level risk appetite targets.
the risk appetite framework and a key part of embedding risk appetite targets in day-to-day risk management decisions.
The risk control The framework is supported by a programme of communication, frameworks manage risk concentrations on a bottom-up basis through engagement and training rolled out across the Group to embed a wide portfolio and product limit setting, expressing a clear tolerance for understanding of the purpose and value of an effective risk appetite.
material risk types that is aligned to business activities.
These are aligned with a top-down approach via a calibration of their aggregate Risk appetite supports value creation in a safe sustainable way.
It is contribution with the Groups risk appetite targets i. e. earnings volatility, embedded within the annual planning and budgeting process.
Business capital and liquidity consumption and impact on stakeholder confidence.
strategies are designed on the basis of key value drivers e. g. customer franchises, income and profit generation, synergies and whether they fit The Group Policy Framework directly supports the qualitative aspects of within agreed risk appetite boundaries.
A range of different but risk appetite, helping to rebuild and maintain stakeholder confidence in complementary tools have been developed to measure whether strategic the Groups risk control and governance.
Its integrated approach is plans are consistent with risk appetite, to test broader what if questions designed to ensure that an appropriate standard of control is set for each and to assess the impact of changes in key assumptions: of the material risks the Group faces, with an effective assurance process put in place to monitor and report on performance.
Risk appetite has its Integrated stress testing - assesses how earnings, capital and own policy standard within the Group Policy Framework that sets out funding positions change under an unfavourable, yet plausible, clear roles and responsibilities to measure, cascade and report scenario.
Stress scenarios can differ by theme, geographical performance against risk appetite, as well as to provide assurances that location or severity.
business is being conducted within approved risk limits and tolerances.
unaudited 185 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Risk appetite continued Challenge mechanisms Culture, values and remuneration A simple decision making guide called the YES check has been Objectives for risk culture included within the Code of Conduct.
It is a simple, intuitive set of five Risk culture plays a key role in the Groups ambition to build a really questions, designed to ensure the values guide day-to-day decisions: good bank.
A strong risk culture is a key part of ensuring risk appetite is effectively embedded across the Group.
The link between risk appetite Does what I am doing keep our customers and the Bank safe and and strategic objectives encourages people at all levels of the business to secure?
think about risk, how they identify it and how they manage it.
It incorporates the quantitative and qualitative aspects of risk and uses both Would customers and colleagues say I am acting with integrity?
absolute and relative risk measures.
Am I happy with how this would be perceived on the outside?
Risk culture policies The Groups values - of serving customers well, working together, Is what I am doing meeting the standards of conduct required?
doing the right thing and thinking long term - act as a clear starting point for a strong and effective risk culture.
A wide range of In five years time would others see this as a good way to work?
communication and engagement activities detailed below has been undertaken to discuss the meaning of each value with employees and Each question is a prompt to think about the situation and how it fits with how they affect and guide day-to-day activities.
It ensures that employees can think through decisions that dont have a clear answer, guiding the judgements behind The embedding of the Groups values into a strong risk culture is their decisions and actions.
supported by a revised and more focused Code of Conduct.
The Code provides guidance on expected behaviour and sets out the standards of Risk-based key performance indicators conduct that support the Groups values.
It explains the effect of The Groups policy standards require all current Code Staff roles to use a decisions that are taken and describes the principles that must be balanced scorecard approach to performance management.
recognition of the longer-term business requirements and a balance between financial and non-financial metrics, including an evaluation of These business principles cover conduct related issues as well as wider adherence to internal controls and risk management.
They focus on desired outcomes, with practical Code Staff roles have had specific risk objectives in their performance guidelines to align the Groups values with its commercial strategy and plan.
The embedding of business principles facilitates sound decision making and a clear focus on good customer outcomes in the moments Unvested awards are subject to clawback and may be reduced, or that matter.
It is aligned with the people management and remuneration forfeited in full, at the discretion of the Group Performance and processes to support a positive and strong risk culture through Remuneration Committee.
For Code Staff roles, the Committee can apply appropriate incentive structures.
clawback if the company, business area and team, or the individual subsequently incurs significant loss either financial or reputational, or if Training the Group as a whole suffers a material failure of risk management or Across the risk management function, a series of events and activities material downturn in its financial performance.
have been undertaken to bring alive the Groups values and culture for employees.
This is supported by performance management processes Awards to employees under the Group's long-term incentive plan are that hold individuals to account for poor behaviour and reward the subject to financial and operational measures and an underlying behaviour that supports our purpose, visions and values.
requirement for effective risk management during the performance period.
The Group Performance and Remuneration Committee has put in place a Group-wide remuneration policy which is explicitly aligned with effective risk management.
Performance is a key input into the determining of remuneration levels.
Group and divisional plans and targets are aligned with the risk appetite and the long-term interests of the Group, as determined by the Board.
These targets are the basis of Group Executive members objectives, which are approved by the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee.
These objectives are then cascaded through the divisions and functions.
There is significant focus on risk in performance assessment with all executives and Code Staff receiving specific risk feedback through an independent 360-degree feedback process.
As part of the line unaudited managers assessment of individual performance divisional control functions, including risk, provide independent input to the line manager.
186 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Risk coverage The Group continued to strengthen its approach to risk management The implementation of the enhanced country risk appetite amid a challenging and ever-changing external environment in 2013. framework, including top-down risk appetite, and of enhanced Areas of progress included: assurance processes: The completion of the phased roll-out of the Group's conduct risk The introduction of a new integrated operating model for managing policies and of a more effective operating model, supported by the regulatory developments, which combines divisional and functional development and delivery of awareness initiatives and targeted teams to leverage expertise more effectively: and training: Further strengthening of the Groups credit risk management framework.
The main risk types faced by the Group are presented below, together with a summary of the key areas of focus and how the Group managed these risks in 2013.
In preparing disclosures related to these risks, the Group has considered the recommendations of the Enhanced Disclosure Task Force issued in October 2012.
A summary of the recommendations and list of disclosures that meet these recommendations has been included on page 557.
Risk type Definition Features How the Group manages risk and the focus in 2013 Capital adequacy The risk that the Group has Arises from: Inefficient management The Groups Core Tier 1 ratio on a Basel 2.5 basis was risk insufficient capital.
10.9% and on a fully loaded Basel III FLB3 basis was 8.6% at 31 December 2013.
The Group is targeting a Character and impact: Characterised FLB3 Common Equity Tier 1 ratio of c. 11% by the end of typically by credit risk losses.
The timely run-down of RCR and the successful divestment of It has the potential to disrupt the Citizens are key to the achievement of the Groups capital business if there is insufficient capital plans.
It also has the potential to cause the Group Refer to the Capital management section on pages 192 to to fail to meet regulatory 208 for further information.
Group capital and earnings may be affected, impairing the activities of all divisions.
Liquidity and The risk that the Group is Arises from: The Groups day-to-day Liquidity and funding metrics continued to strengthen with funding risk unable to meet its financial operations.
short-term wholesale funding of 32.4 billion, covered liabilities as they fall due.
more than four times by a liquidity portfolio of 146.1 Character and impact: Dependent on billion.
Liquidity coverage and net stable funding ratios company-specific factors such as also improved.
maturity profile and composition of sources and uses of funding, the Refer to the Liquidity and funding risk section on pages quality and size of the liquid asset 209 to 226 for further information.
buffer as well as broader market factors, such as wholesale market conditions alongside depositor and investor behaviour.
It has the potential to cause the Group to fail to meet regulatory liquidity requirements, become unable to support normal banking activity or at worst cease to be a going concern.
Adverse impact on customer and investor confidence in the Group and the wider financial system is also possible.
unaudited 187 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Risk appetite : Risk coverage continued Risk type Definition Features How the Group manages risk and the focus in 2013 Credit risk The risk of financial loss due Arises from: Deterioration of the credit During 2013, loan impairment charges were 8.4 billion, of to the failure of a customer, or quality of customers or counterparties which 4.5 billion related to the creation of RCR and the related counterparty, to meet its of the Group, leaving them unable to strategy.
Excluding the increased impairments related to RCR, obligation to settle outstanding meet their contractual obligations.
loan impairment losses fell by 1.4 billion.
provisions covered risk elements in lending of 39.4 billion by 64%, up from 52% a year earlier.
Credit risk RWAs fell by 16% Character and impact: Losses can vary materially across portfolios and may to 313.4 billion, within which counterparty risk RWAs more include the risk of loss due to the than halved to 22.3 billion, reflecting risk reduction and core product focus in Markets as well as Non-Core disposals and concentration of credit risk related to a specific product, asset class, sector or run-off.
Credit risk is managed using a suite of credit approval, risk concentration, early warning and problem management It has the potential to affect adversely frameworks as well as associated risk management tools.
the Groups financial performance and capital.
The focus in 2013 was on the calibration of the credit control framework to align with Group risk appetite targets and the enhancement of existing Basel models.
Refer to the Credit risk and Balance sheet analysis sections on pages 227 to 317 for further information.
Market risk The risk of loss arising from Arises from: Adverse movements in During 2013, the Group continued to reduce its risk exposures.
fluctuations in interest rates, market prices.
Average trading value-at-risk VaR decreased significantly credit spreads, foreign from 97 million to 79 million, reflecting risk reduction and Character and impact: Characterised currency rates, equity prices, capital management focus.
fide-risking within the rates business by frequent small losses, which are commodity prices and other and improvements in the capture of valuation adjustment risks material in aggregate, and infrequent risk-related factors such as within the counterparty exposure management desk in Markets large material losses due to stress market volatilities that may helped reduce VaR in the first half of 2013.
lead to a reduction in in the asset-backed securities inventory drove down the risk earnings, economic value or even further in the second half of 2013.
It has the potential to materially affect both.
financial performance in Markets, Refer to the Market risk section on pages 318 to 340 for further International Banking, Non-Core and information.
Group Treasury where the Group has the majority of its exposures.
The Groups non-trading activities in retail and commercial businesses can also be affected through interest rate risk and foreign exchange non traded exposures.
unaudited 188 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Risk type Definition Features How the Group manages risk and the focus in 2013 Country risk The risk of losses occurring Arises from: Sovereign events, economic The Group Country Risk Committee manages country risk as a result of either a events, political events, natural disasters or matters including: risk appetite: risk management strategy country event or conflicts.
and framework: risk exposure and policy: sovereign unfavourable country ratings: sovereign loss given default rates: and country operating conditions.
Character and impact: Primarily present in Watchlist colours, with escalation where needed to the credit portfolios of Markets, International Executive Risk Forum.
Banking, Ulster Bank Ireland, Group Regular, detailed reviews are carried out on all portfolios Centre mainly Treasury, US Retail & to ensure their composition remains in line with the Commercial and Non-Core.
Groups country risk appetite and reflects economic and political developments.
It has the potential to affect parts of the Groups credit portfolio that are directly or A country risk Watchlist process identifies emerging indirectly linked to the country in question.
issues and assists in the development of mitigation strategies.
In 2013, the scope of this process was widened to include all countries with Group exposure.
Balance sheet exposure to eurozone periphery countries continued to fall, and was down by 11% to 52.9 billion at the end of 2013, of which 70% related to Ireland, primarily reflecting exposures in Ulster Bank.
Refer to the Country risk section on pages 341 to 353 for further information.
Conduct risk The risk that the conduct of Arises from: Breaches of regulatory rules or Conduct risk is managed through the Groups Conduct the Group and its staff laws, resulting from the Groups retail or Risk Committee, under delegated authority from the towards its customers, or wholesale conduct: or from failing to meet Executive Risk Forum.
The Committee is responsible for within the markets in which it customers or regulators expectations of governance, leadership and risk appetite.
operates, leads to the Group.
reputational damage and or The focus in 2013 was on placing conduct risk at the financial loss.
Character and impact: Failures in product centre of the Groups philosophy and on completing the design, training and competence, complaint development of the risk framework.
Promoting handling and transaction reporting can lead understanding of conduct issues and ensuring compliance to an increase in complaints, compensation with regulations and rules are priorities for the Group.
Refer to the Conduct risk section on pages 355 and 356 It has the potential to affect earnings for further information.
through loss of customer confidence and sales, as well as capital and liquidity including regulator imposed fines for inappropriate conduct.
It also affects the confidence of other key Group stakeholders, such as private and institutional shareholders, regulators and governments.
unaudited 189 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Risk appetite : Risk coverage continued Risk type Definition Features How the Group manages risk and the focus in 2013 Pension risk The risk to a firm caused by its Arises from: Variation in value of The Groups Pension Risk Committee considers the contractual or other liabilities to, pension scheme assets and liabilities Groups view of pension risk, mechanisms that could be or with respect to, its pension owing to changes to life expectancy, used for managing pension risk and the financial strategy schemes, whether established interest rates, inflation, credit spreads, implications of the pension schemes as well as reviewing for its employees or for those of and equity and property prices.
The Committee reports to the Group a related company or Asset and Liability Committee on the material pension Character and impact: Pension otherwise.
It also means the schemes that the Group is obliged to support.
schemes funding positions can be risk that the firm will make volatile due to the uncertainty of future In 2013, various pension risk stress testing initiatives were payments or other contributions investment returns and the projected undertaken, focused both on internally defined scenarios to, or with respect to, a pension value of schemes liabilities.
The Group and on scenarios designed to meet integrated PRA stress scheme because of a moral might have to make financial testing requirements.
obligation, or because the firm contributions to, or with respect to, its considers that it needs to do so Refer to the Pension risk section on pages 356 and 357 for pension schemes.
It has the potential to adversely affect the Groups funding and capital requirements.
Operational risk The risk of loss resulting from Arises from: The Groups day-to-day Operational risk is managed by the Operational Risk inadequate or failed processes, operations and is relevant to every Executive Committee.
It is responsible for identifying and people, systems or from aspect of the Groups business.
managing emerging operational risks, and for reviewing external events.
and monitoring operational risk profile strategies and Character and impact: May be financial frameworks, ensuring they are in line with risk appetite.
in nature characterised by either frequent small losses or infrequent In 2013, the focus was on continued implementation and embedding of risk assessments across the Group, material losses, or may lead to direct customer and or reputational impact including the strengthening of links between risk for example, a major IT systems assessments and other elements of the Group operational risk framework.
In addition, risk assessments were failure or fraudulent activity.
increasingly used to identify single points of failure.
It has the potential to affect the Groups profitability and capital Refer to the Operational risk section on pages 358 to 360 requirements directly, as well as for further information.
Regulatory risk The risk of material loss or Arises from: The Groups regulatory, The management of regulatory as well as conduct risk is liability, legal or regulatory business or operating environment, overseen by the Conduct and Regulatory Affairs function.
sanctions, or reputational and in how it responds to these.
The Groups existing Compliance and Regulatory Affairs damage, resulting from the teams were brought together in the second half of 2013, failure to comply with or Character and impact: The following the creation of the role of Group Head of Conduct adequately plan for changes to crystallisation of regulatory risk can and Regulatory Affairs.
The Conduct and Regulatory relevant official sector policy, result in adverse impacts on the Affairs function has responsibility for setting Group-wide laws, regulations, or major Groups customers, strategy, business, policy and standards, providing advice to the business and industry standards, in any financial condition or reputation, for ensuring controls are effective for managing regulatory location in which the Group instance, through the failure to provide affairs, compliance and financial crime risks across all operates.
appropriate protections to customers, businesses.
or from regulatory enforcement or other interventions.
Other enhancements were also made during 2013 included the creation of a more centralised approach to It has the potential to adversely impact assurance activities and the introduction of a new Centres the Groups customers, strategy, of Excellence model for the management of regulatory business, financial condition or developments, bringing together divisional and functional reputation.
resources to manage issues more effectively.
Refer to the Regulatory risk section on page 360 and 361 for further information.
unaudited 190 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Risk type Definition Features How the Group manages risk and the focus in 2013 Reputational risk The risk of brand damage Arises from: Actions taken or, in The reputational risk framework is aligned with the and or financial loss due to a some cases, not taken by the Group, Groups focus on serving customers well, strategic failure to meet stakeholders as well as its wider policies and objectives and the risk appetite goal of maintaining expectations of the Group.
In 2013, the environmental, social and ethical risk Character and impact: Can result in management function was set up to address the an inability to build or sustain reputational risk associated with the clients the Group customer relationships, in low staff chooses to do business with.
It sets policy and provides morale, in regulatory censure, or in guidance to avoid reputational risk relating to business reduced access to funding.
engagements and lending to clients in sensitive industry sectors.
Refer to the Reputational risk section on pages 361 and 362 for further information.
Business risk The risk of losses as a result Arises from: Internal factors such as The Group Board has ultimate responsibility for business of adverse variance in the volatility in pricing, sales volumes and risk through the achievement of the Groups business Groups revenues and or costs input costs, and or by external factors plan.
The primary responsibility for divisional financial relative to its business plan such as exposure to macroeconomic, performance rests with the divisional CEO supported by and strategy.
divisional Executive Committee and functions.
In 2013, the management and measurement of business Character and impact: Can lead to risk was enhanced with an increased focus on stress adverse changes in revenues and or testing.
The Group responded to business risk challenges by It has the potential to directly affect focusing on the management of net interest margin in the Groups profitability and capital order to sustain and grow revenues.
In addition, it requirements, as well as stakeholder introduced cost management programmes to deliver confidence.
Refer to the Business risk section on pages 362 and 363 for further information.
Strategic risk The risk that the Group will Arises from: the Groups management The Group is focusing on reducing strategic risk following make inappropriate strategic of its strategy.
a wide-ranging review to analyse core activities and choices, or that there will be formulate an appropriate plan, including rationalisation changes in the external Character and impact: Varied losses where necessary, to address the business challenges of environment to which the affecting earnings, capital, liquidity the next five years.
Group fails to adapt its and customer and stakeholder The successful execution of this strategy is set against a strategies.
background of increasing regulatory demands and scrutiny as well as a challenging macroeconomic environment.
Successful and timely execution of the strategy will be key to the future success of the Group.
Refer to the Strategic risk section on pages 363 and 364 for further information.
Political risk The risk to the Groups During 2013 the focus on the question of potential business and operations of the Scottish independence from the UK heightened, and the referendum on Scottish Scottish government will be holding a referendum in independence.
A vote in favour of Scottish independence would be likely to impact the Groups costs and could also impact the fiscal, legal and regulatory landscape to which the Group is subject.
Were Scotland to become independent, it may also affect Scotlands status in the European Union.
unaudited 191 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Capital management 193 Definition 193 2013 overview 193 Regulatory developments 193 Governance 194 Economic capital 195 Capital resources 200 Estimated leverage ratio 202 Risk-weighted assets 205 Reconciliation between accounting and regulatory consolidation 206 Balance sheet to exposure at default bridge 207 RWA density 192 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Capital management The Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA announced the acceleration of Definition the end state rules for CET1 capital, whereby from 1 January 2014 the The Group aims to maintain an appropriate level of capital to meet its calculation is now closely aligned with the fully loaded definition.
There business needs and regulatory requirements, and operates within an will be no transitional arrangements applied to the prudential filters or agreed risk appetite.
The appropriate level of capital is determined based regulatory deductions with the exception of unrealised gains on available on the dual aims of: i meeting minimum regulatory capital requirements: for sale debt and equity which will be incorporated from 1 January 2015. and ii ensuring the Group maintains sufficient capital to uphold customer, investor and rating agency confidence in the organisation, CRD IV and Basel III will impose a minimum CET1 ratio of 4.5% of thereby supporting the business franchise and funding capacity.
There are three buffers which will affect the Group: the capital conservation buffer set at 2.5%: the counter-cyclical capital buffer up to 2.5% of RWAs, to be applied when macroeconomic conditions indicate 2013 overview areas of the economy are over-heating: and the Global-Systemically The Group reported a Core Tier 1 ratio of 10.9% as at 31 December Important Bank buffer currently set at 1.5% for the Group.
On a fully loaded Basel III basis, the Groups equivalent Common target capital requirements will be phased in and are expected to apply in Equity Tier 1 CET1 ratio was 8.6%.
full from 1 January 2019, in the meantime using national discretion the PRA can apply a top-up.
As set out in the PRAs Supervisory Statement The Groups Core Tier 1 ratio is higher than at the end of 2012 despite SS3 13, the Group and other major UK banks and building societies are absorbing changes to credit model parameters and in the face of required to meet a CET1 ratio of 7% after taking into account certain challenging economic headwinds and continuing costs of fide-risking.
This adjustments set by the PRA.
has been achieved through a continued focus on reshaping the Groups use of capital with the Group announcing in November 2013 PRA guidance indicates that from 1 January 2015, the Group must meet management actions to accelerate the building of its capital strength.
The at least 56% of its Pillar 2A capital requirement with CET1 capital and the measures include creation of an internal 'bad bank' to accelerate the runbalance with Additional Tier 1 capital.
The Pillar 2A capital requirement is down of high risk assets of 29 billion funded assets at the end of 2013. the additional capital that the Group must hold, in addition to meeting its Pillar 1 requirements in order to comply with the PRAs overall financial Faster run-down of high risk assets entails accelerated and increased adequacy rule.
impairments and other adjustments in the fourth quarter of 2013, but the capital impact of this is significantly reduced by a commensurate Subordinated debt instruments which do not meet the new eligibility reduction in expected loss capital deductions.
The management strategy criteria will be grandfathered on a reducing basis over ten years.
will result in a strengthening of the Group's capital ratios in the medium term.
Governance Governance and approach The Group continues to target a fully loaded Basel III CET1 ratio of c. 11% The Group Asset and Liability Management Committee GALCO is by the end of 2015 and 12% or above by the end of 2016. responsible for ensuring the Group maintains adequate capital at all times.
The Capital and Stress Testing Committee CAST is a crossThe Group has announced plans to accelerate the divestment of RBS functional body driving and directing integrated risk capital activities Citizens.
Preparations for a partial initial public offering in 2014 are on including determination of the amount of capital the Group should hold, track and the Group intends to fully divest the business by the end of how and where capital is allocated and planning for actions that would 2016, benefiting CET1.
ensure that an adequate capital position would be maintained in a stressed environment.
These activities have linkages to capital planning, The Group continues to meet the minimum leverage ratio under both the risk appetite and regulatory change.
CAST reports through GALCO and Basel III and Capital Requirements Regulation CRR bases.
comprises senior representatives from Risk Management, Group Finance and Group Treasury.
Target capital ratios are set and monitored by the Focus for the Group remains on active fide-risking of the balance sheet to PRA for the Group.
Management of capital is achieved by supervision of meet strategic objectives, demonstrated in the leverage exposure forecast capital and RWA over a five year time horizon.
measure by Non-Core asset disposal and run-off, and the downsizing of Markets business.
Pillar 3 The Groups Pillar 3 disclosures provide additional analysis of exposure Regulatory developments at default and credit risk measures such as credit risk mitigation, CRD IV counterparty credit risk and provisions and their associated RWAs under The European Union has implemented the Basel III proposals through the various Basel II approaches.
the CRR and the Capital Requirements Directive CRD, collectively known as CRD IV.
CRD IV was implemented on 1 January 2014.
The European Banking Authoritys technical standards which will provide clarification of the CRD IV, are still to be finalised through adoption by the European Commission and implemented within the UK.
unaudited 193 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Capital management continued Capital allocation Governance continued Capital resources are allocated to the Groups businesses based on key Determining appropriate capital performance parameters agreed by the Group Board in the annual The Groups own determination of sufficient capital is derived from the strategic planning process.
Principal among these is a profitability metric, desired credit rating, risk appetite and reflects the current and emerging which assesses the effective use of the capital allocated to the business.
regulatory requirements of the Group.
It is evaluated through both Projected and actual return on equity is assessed against target returns internally and externally defined stress testing to identify potential set by the Group Board.
The allocations also reflect strategic priorities, changes in capital ratios in a range of scenarios.
the intensity of regulatory capital use and the usage of other key Group resources such as balance sheet liquidity and funding.
Basel II requires RWAs to be calculated for credit, market and operational risk with various approaches available to banks, with differing levels of Economic profit is also planned and measured for each division during sophistication.
The minimum capital requirement is calculated as 8% of the annual planning process.
It is calculated by deducting the cost of RWAs.
equity utilised in the particular business from its operating profit and measures the value added over and above the cost of equity.
The Group identifies the management and recovery actions that could be applied in stress environments.
These form an important part of the The Group aims to deliver sustainable returns across the portfolio of capital management approach and the contingency planning businesses with projected business returns stressed to test key arrangements, complementing the established buffers.
Monitoring and maintenance The divisions use return on capital metrics when making pricing decisions Based on these determinations, which are continually reassessed, the on products and transactions, to ensure customer activity is appropriately Group aims to maintain capital adequacy, both at Group level and in each aligned with Group and divisional targets and allocations.
The PRA uses the risk asset ratio as a measure of capital adequacy in The Group operates a rigorous capital planning process aimed at the UK banking sector, comparing a banks capital resources with its ensuring the capital position is controlled within the agreed parameters.
RWAs the assets and off-balance sheet exposures are weighted to This incorporates regular re-forecasts of the capital positions of the reflect the inherent credit and other risks.
regulated entities and the overall Group.
In the event that the projected Economic capital position might deteriorate beyond acceptable levels, the Group would Economic capital is an internal measure of the risks to which the Group is issue further capital and or revise business plans accordingly.
exposed and is used as a supplement to other risk and capital tools, such as stress testing and regulatory capital.
The measure includes risk Stress testing approaches are used to determine the level of capital exposures for credit, market, business, operational, pension, fixed asset required to ensure the Group expects to remain adequately capitalised.
and interest rate risk in the banking book.
These models capture risks not fully addressed within the Pillar 1 regulatory framework e. g. Minimising surplus profits and capital concentration, pension, interest rate, business risk and diversification.
The Group has a process in place which requires surplus distributable profits of all Group subsidiaries, after making allowance for sufficient The characteristics of the models are consistent across risks, business capital to support current and prospective growth in the following halflines and throughout the economic cycle, but are also flexible to allow year, to be repatriated by way of a dividend on a half yearly basis and outcomes to be employed for a number of purposes e. g. severity paid in cash before the period end.
Surplus is defined as subsidiary level confidence interval, time horizon and correlations.
Models have capital of more than 1 million in excess of the regulatory minimum for been developed internally but are subject to rigorous governance UK banks and in accordance with the Group's policy, including capital including external benchmarking, independent validation and extensive buffers, or the industry specific overseas regulatory requirements.
Models are regularly reviewed and However, fungibility of capital is subject to the approval of the local continue to be updated for new data sources and improvements in risk regulator.
The ability to change severity levels supports management of earnings volatility and capital risk.
Economic models are used in the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process, assessing risk profiles within the risk appetite framework, functional risk management e. g. credit exposures at both Group and business levels, assessing business line profitability on a risk adjusted basis and the management and allocation unaudited of capital.
194 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Capital resources The Groups capital, RWAs and risk asset ratios, on the basis of current rules Basel 2.5 and CRR or fully loaded Basel III FLB3, calculated in accordance with PRA definitions, are set out below.
Key points Core Tier 1 capital ratios, under current rules and the fully loaded RWA decreases under current rules were primarily in Markets Basel III basis, improved by 60 basis points and 90 basis points 36.8 billion as a result of balance sheet and risk reduction, and in respectively in the year.
The benefit of lower RWAs was partially Non-Core 31.2 billion reflecting disposal of capital intensive offset by the significant attributable loss for the year.
establishment of RCR and the related impairments reduced the ratios by c. 10 basis points and c. 20 basis points respectively.
unaudited 195 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Capital management continued In the first year of transition, the regulatory adjustments will be calculated Capital resources continued under the new rules.
The CRR deductions are determined by applying 1 Current capital resources and CRR capital estimate the transitional percentage 20% in year 1.
The residual balance will be A reconciliation between capital as reported under the current basis deducted according to the current rules, except where the PRA has Basel 2.5, transitional basis PRA and full basis final CRR is set out specified a different treatment.
The Group is well advanced in its preparations to comply with the new Although the CRR text has been finalised, many of the Regulatory requirements.
Given the phasing of both capital requirements and target Technical Standards RTS are still draft.
The finalisation of these could levels, in advance of needing to comply with the fully loaded end state have a material impact in a number of areas such as the scope of the requirements, the Group will have the opportunity to continue to generate deduction for insignificant financial holdings.
Further guidance is provided additional capital from earnings and take management actions to mitigate by the European Banking Authority through published Q&A.
The year 1 transitional basis applies the rules as if 2013 was year 1 of The Groups CET1 ratio on a fully loaded basis at 31 December 2013, 1 the transition period.
The full basis shows the same calculation based on based on its interpretation of the rules is estimated at 8.6%.
This is based on the Groups interpretation of the current rules and guidance.
The actual impact of CRD IV on capital ratios may be different as the requirements and related technical standards have not yet been finalised and will ultimately be subject to application by local regulators.
The actual impact will also be dependent on required regulatory approvals and the extent to which further management action is taken prior to implementation.
Note: 1 The PRA issued its consultative paper on implementing CRD IV PS7 13 in December 2013.
Under the draft proposals, there would be no transition in respect of the changes to the prudential filters and deductions from CET1.
These proposals came into effect from 1 January 2014. unaudited 196 Business review Risk and balance sheet management 2013 2012 2011 Current Transitional Full Current Transitional Full Current basis basis basis basis basis basis basis Basel 2.5 PRA final CRR Basel 2.5 draft CRR draft CRR Basel 2.5 m m m m m m m Shareholders equity excluding non-controlling interests Shareholders' equity 58,742 58,742 58,742 68,678 68,678 68,168 75,367 Preference shares - equity 4,313 4,313 4,313 4,313 4,313 4,313 4,313 Other equity instruments 979 979 979 979 979 979 979 53,450 53,450 53,450 63,386 63,386 62,876 70,075 Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests 473 1,770 1,770 1,770 686 Regulatory adjustments to non-controlling interests 1,367 1,367 1,770 259 473 403 403 427 Regulatory adjustments and deductions Own credit 726 601 601 691 691 493 2,634 Defined benefit pension fund adjustment 362 172 172 913 144 144 Net unrealised AFS losses 308 346 346 957 Cash flow hedging reserve 84 84 84 1,666 1,666 1,666 879 Other regulatory adjustments 103 55 55 197 571 Deferred tax assets 2,260 2,260 323 3,231 Prudential valuation adjustments 781 781 310 310 Qualifying deductions exceeding Additional Tier 1 AT1 capital 8,420 Goodwill and other intangible assets 12,368 12,368 12,368 13,545 13,956 14,858 50% of expected losses less impairment provisions 19 1,731 1,731 1,904 6,154 2,536 50% of securitisation positions 748 1,107 2,019 50% of APS first loss 2,763 11,758 16,682 16,682 16,469 9,826 24,968 24,161 Core Tier 1 capital 42,165 36,768 36,768 47,320 53,963 37,908 46,341 Other Tier 1 capital Preference shares - equity 4,313 4,313 4,313 Preference shares - debt 911 1,054 1,094 Innovative hybrid Tier 1 securities 4,207 4,125 4,667 Qualifying Tier 1 capital and related share premium subject to phase out from AT1 capital 5,831 4,571 Qualifying Tier 1 capital included in consolidated AT1 capital issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties 1,749 4,042 9,431 7,580 9,492 8,613 10,074 Tier 1 deductions 50% of material holdings 1 976 295 340 Tax on expected losses less impairment provisions 6 618 915 Other regulatory adjustments 17,033 970 323 17,033 575 Qualifying deductions exceeding AT1 capital 8,420 Total Tier 1 capital 50,626 44,348 36,768 57,135 53,963 37,908 56,990 For the note to this table refer to the following page.
unaudited 197 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Capital management continued Capital resources continued 2013 2012 2011 Current Transitional Full Current Transitional Full Current basis basis basis basis basis basis basis Basel 2.5 PRA final CRR Basel 2.5 draft CRR draft CRR Basel 2.5 m m m m m m m Qualifying Tier 2 capital Undated subordinated debt 2,109 2,194 1,838 Dated subordinated debt - net of amortisation 12,436 13,420 14,527 Qualifying items and related share premium 4,431 3,582 2,774 7,292 Qualifying own funds instruments issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties 9,374 5,151 12,605 5,185 Unrealised gains on AFS equity shares 114 63 108 Collectively assessed impairment provisions 395 399 399 399 635 Non-controlling Tier 2 capital 11 15,054 13,805 8,733 16,076 15,778 12,876 17,119 Tier 2 deductions 50% of securitisation positions 748 1,107 2,019 50% of standardised expected losses less impairment provisions 25 2,522 3,077 3,451 50% of material holdings 1 976 295 340 50% of APS first loss 2,763 1,749 3,924 3,077 8,573 Total Tier 2 capital 13,305 13,805 8,733 12,152 12,701 12,876 8,546 Supervisory deductions Unconsolidated investments - Direct Line Group 1 2,081 4,354 - Other investments 36 162 239 Other deductions 236 244 235 272 2,487 4,828 Total regulatory capital 63,659 58,153 45,501 66,800 66,664 50,784 60,708 The table below analyses the movement in Core Tier 1, Other Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital on a Basel 2.5 basis during the year ended 31 December 2013.
Supervisory Core Tier 1 Other Tier 1 Tier 2 deductions Total m m m m m At 1 January 2013 47,320 9,815 12,152 2,487 66,800 Attributable loss net of movements in fair value of own credit 8,961 8,961 Share capital and reserve movements in respect of employee share schemes 200 200 Ordinary shares issued 264 264 Foreign exchange reserve 217 217 Foreign exchange movements 93 106 199 Actuarial gains recognised in retirement benefit schemes net of tax 200 200 Termination of contingent capital facility 320 320 Increase in non-controlling interests 70 70 Decrease increase in capital deductions 1 2,244 1,293 2,175 2,215 5,341 Decrease in goodwill and intangibles 1,177 1,177 Defined benefit pension fund 551 551 Dated subordinated debt issues 1,862 1,862 Dated subordinated debt maturities, redemptions and amortisation 2,666 2,666 Other movements 99 32 112 19 At 31 December 2013 42,165 8,461 13,305 272 63,659 Note: 1 From 1 January 2013 material holdings in insurance companies are deducted 50% from Tier 1 and 50% from Tier 2. unaudited 198 Business review Risk and balance sheet management The table below analyses the movement in CET1 and Tier 2 capital on a FLB3 basis during the year ended 31 December 2013.
CET1 Tier 2 Total m m m At 1 January 2013 37,908 12,876 50,784 Attributable loss net of movements in fair value of own credit 8,887 8,887 Share capital and reserve movements in respect of employee share schemes 200 200 Ordinary shares issued 264 264 Nominal value of B shares 510 510 Foreign exchange reserve 217 217 Foreign exchange movements 106 106 Actuarial gains recognised in retirement benefit schemes net of tax 200 200 Termination of contingent capital facility 320 320 Decrease in goodwill and intangibles 1,588 1,588 Defined benefit pension fund 28 28 Deferred tax assets 971 971 Excess of expected loss over impairment provisions 4,423 4,423 Grandfathered instruments 3,121 3,121 Dated subordinated debt issues 1,862 1,862 Dated subordinated debt maturities, redemptions and amortisation 2,666 2,666 Prudential valuation adjustments PVA 471 471 Other movements 13 112 125 At 31 December 2013 36,768 8,733 45,501 Notes: General: In accordance with the PRAs Policy Statement PS7 13 issued in December 2013 on the implementation of CRD IV, all regulatory adjustments and deductions to CET1 have been applied in full i. e. no transition with the exception of unrealised gains on AFS securities which will be included from 2015.
CRD IV and Basel III will impose a minimum CET1 ratio of 4.5% of RWAs.
There are three buffers which will affect the Group: the capital conservation buffer set at 2.5%: the counter-cyclical capital buffer up to 2.5% of RWAs, to be applied when macroeconomic conditions indicate areas of the economy are over-heating: and the Global-Systemically Important Bank buffer currently set at 1.5% for the Group.
The regulatory target capital requirements will be phased in and are expected to apply in full from 1 January 2019, in the meantime using national discretion the PRA can apply a top-up.
As set out in the PRAs Supervisory Statement SS3 13, the Group and other major UK banks and building societies are required to meet a CET1 ratio of 7% after taking into account certain adjustments set by the PRA.
PRA guidance indicates that from 1 January 2015, the Group must meet at least 56% of its Pillar 2A capital requirement with CET1 capital and the balance with Additional Tier 1 capital.
The Pillar 2A capital requirement is the additional capital that the Group must hold, in addition to meeting its Pillar 1 requirements in order to comply with the PRAs overall financial adequacy rule.
Estimates, including RWAs, are based on the current interpretation, expectations, and understanding of the CRR requirements, anticipated compliance with all necessary enhancements to model calibration and other refinements, as well as further regulatory clarity and implementation guidance from the UK and EU authorities.
The actual CRR impact may differ from these estimates when the final technical standards are interpreted and adopted.
Capital base: 1 Includes the nominal value of B shares 0.5 billion on the assumption that RBS will be privatised in the future and that they will count as permanent equity in some form by the end of 2017.
2 The PVA, arising from the application of the prudent valuation requirements to all assets measured at fair value, has been included in full in line with the guidance from the PRA and uses methodology discussed with the PRA pending the issue of the final RTS by the European Banking Authority.
The full amount of the applicable PVA has been included in provisions in the determination of the deduction for expected losses.
3 Where the deductions from AT1 capital exceed AT1 capital, the excess is deducted from CET1 capital.
The excess of AT1 deductions over AT1 capital in year one of transition is due to the application of the current rules to the transitional amounts.
4 Insignificant investments in equities of other financial entities net : long cash equity positions are considered to have matched maturity with synthetic short positions if the long position is held for hedging purposes and sufficient liquidity exists in the relevant market.
All the trades are managed and monitored together within the equities business.
5 Based on current interpretations of the final draft of the RTS on credit risk adjustments, issued in July 2013, the Groups standardised latent provision has been reclassified to specific provision and is therefore no longer included in Tier 2 capital.
Risk-weighted assets: 1 Current securitisation positions are shown as risk-weighted at 1,250%.
2 RWA uplifts include the impact of credit valuation adjustments and asset valuation correlation on banks and central counterparties.
3 RWAs reflect implementation of the full internal model method suite, and include methodology changes that took effect immediately on CRR implementation.
4 Non-financial counterparties and sovereigns that meet the eligibility criteria under CRR are exempt from the credit valuation adjustments volatility charges.
5 The CRR final text includes a reduction in the risk-weight relating to small and medium-sized enterprises.
unaudited 199 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Capital management continued The Basel III leverage percentages are lower than those currently Estimated leverage ratio reported, primarily due to changes in methodology relating to the The Basel III agreement introduced a leverage ratio as a non-risk based inclusion of potential future exposure on derivatives and undrawn backstop limit intended to supplement the risk-based capital commitments.
In addition, inclusion or exclusion of grandfathered capital requirements.
It aims to constrain the build up of excess leverage in the instruments can result in material differences.
banking sector, introducing additional safeguards against model risk and measurement errors.
The leverage ratios set out below are based on: The PRAs Supervisory Statement SS3 13 also states that the Group and Tier 1 capital as set out in the final CRR text: and the other major UK banks and building societies are expected to maintain a 3% end point Tier 1 leverage ratio, after taking into account the Exposure measure calculated using the final CRR text as well as the adjustments required by the PRA.
December 2010 Basel III text: further specificity being sourced from the instructions in the July 2012 Quantitative Impact Study and the The transitional period for the introduction of this ratio started with a related Frequently Asked Questions.
supervisory monitoring period in 2011, with a parallel run period from January 2013 to December 2017.
A minimum ratio of 3% is applied The estimated leverage ratio, based on the Basel Committee on Banking initially.
The requirement is expected to be included in Pillar 1 from Supervision BCBS proposal issued in January 2014, is detailed below.
2013 2012 Tier 1 Tier 1 Exposure capital Leverage Exposure capital Leverage Estimated leverage ratio Leverage Leverage bn bn % bn bn % CRR basis: Transitional measure 1,062.1 44.3 24x 4.2 1,205.2 54.0 22x 4.5 Full end point measure 1,062.1 36.8 29x 3.5 1,202.3 37.9 32x 3.1 Basel III basis: Transitional measure 1,093.5 44.3 25x 4.1 1,225.8 54.0 23x 4.4 Full end point measure 1,093.5 36.8 30x 3.4 1,222.9 37.9 32x 3.1 BCBS basis: Transitional measure 1,082.0 44.3 24x 4.1 1,239.8 54.0 23x 4.4 Full end point measure 1,082.0 36.8 29x 3.4 1,236.9 37.9 33x 3.1 Key points The Groups estimated leverage ratios, under both the CRR and The PRA Policy Statement PS7 13 requires an acceleration of the Basel III texts, as well as the recently issued BCBS proposal are CRR transitional approach for computing the capital base.
majority of CET1 capital deductions will apply with immediate effect.
This causes a year-on-year reduction of around 10 billion in Tier 1 Estimated leverage ratios on all full end point measure bases capital, causing the reduction in transitional measure leverage improved during the year reflecting downsizing in Markets and Nonratios.
Core as well as risk reduction and portfolio focus ahead of CRR implementation.
In the CRR calculation, the balance sheet value is replaced with the related regulatory exposure value which has netting of both cash positions and related collateral of securities financing transactions SFTs.
The BCBS view permits the effects of master netting agreements for calculation of counterparty exposure but with very tight restrictions upon the recognition of those agreements for offset of cash received.
2 Regulatory deductions: to ensure consistency between the numerator and the denominator, items that are deducted from capital are also deducted from total assets.
For the BCBS basis, the shortfall in the stock of eligible provisions relative to expected losses is adjusted.
3 Potential future exposure PFE on derivatives: the regulatory add-on which is calculated by assigning percentages based on the type of instrument and the residual maturity of the contract to the nominal amounts or underlying values of derivative contracts.
Under the latest BCBS proposal, variation margin is permitted to be offset against the replacement cost for derivative exposures but not the PFE where specific conditions are met.
Refer to the table below for further analysis.
4 Undrawn commitments represent regulatory add-ons relating to off-balance sheet undrawn commitments based on a 10% credit conversion factor for unconditionally cancellable commitments and 100% for other commitments.
The CRR basis uses the credit conversion factor CCF as per risk measure for medium to low risk trade finance and officially supported export credits.
For the BCBS measure, commitments other than securitisation liquidity facilities with an original maturity up to one year and commitments with an original maturity over one year will receive a CCF of 20% and 50%, respectively.
Refer to page 202 for further analysis.
Derivative notionals The table below analyses derivative notional values by product and maturity.
Any credit derivatives in respect of a company in which a direct holding would give the Group 10% or more of the voting rights, receive a PFE of 5%.
unaudited 201 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Capital management continued Estimated leverage ratio continued Off-balance sheet items UK UK International US Retail & Retail Corporate Banking 1 Commercial Markets Other Total 2013 bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Unconditionally cancellable items 2 3.1 0.5 0.6 1.7 0.3 6.2 Other contingents and commitments 9.6 36.3 95.4 16.8 8.9 12.7 179.7 12.7 36.8 96.0 18.5 8.9 13.0 185.9 2012 Unconditionally cancellable items 2 3.0 0.5 0.8 1.8 0.6 6.7 Other contingents and commitments 9.3 33.9 102.6 15.6 12.3 7.1 180.8 12.3 34.4 103.4 17.4 12.3 7.7 187.5 Notes: 1 International Banking facilities are primarily undrawn facilities to large multinational corporations, many of which are domiciled in the UK.
2 Based on a 10% credit conversion factor.
Risk-weighted assets The table below analyses the movement in credit risk RWAs by key drivers during the year.
Credit risk Non-counterparty Counterparty Total bn bn bn At 1 January 2013 323.2 48.0 371.2 Foreign exchange movement 1.7 0.3 2.0 Business movements 27.4 4.9 32.3 Risk parameter changes 1 11.0 2.9 13.9 Methodology changes 2 1.4 16.1 14.7 Model updates 3 15.3 1.5 13.8 Disposals 8.6 8.6 Other changes 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2013 291.1 22.3 313.4 Notes: 1 Relates to changes in credit quality metrics of customers and counterparties such as probability of default and loss given default.
2 Relates to internal treatment of exposures or calibration of models and regulatory prescribed changes.
3 Refers to implementation of a new model or modification of an existing model following approval by the PRA and includes: o exposure at default treatment 4.8 billion in the second quarter of 2013: o continuation of commercial real estate slotting 4.4 billion throughout 2013: and o loss given default changes to the shipping portfolio 3.7 billion in the second half of 2013.
The table below analyses movements in market and operational risk RWAs during the year.
Market risk Markets Other Total Operational risk Total bn bn bn bn bn At 1 January 2013 36.9 5.7 42.6 45.8 88.4 Business and market movements 9.0 1.8 10.8 4.0 14.8 Model updates 1 1.5 1.5 1.5 At 31 December 2013 26.4 3.9 30.3 41.8 72.1 Note: 1 Market risk model updates in 2013 primarily related to valuation adjustments.
unaudited 202 Business review Risk and balance sheet management The table below analyses RWA movements by division during the year.
Key points RWAs were down 74.1 billion or 16% overall, of which 57.8 billion Counterparty RWAs were down 25.7 billion or 54% to 22.3 related to credit risk, 12.3 billion to market risk and 4.0 billion to billion in Markets 17.2 billion and Non-Core 7.8 billion.
Methodology changes, significantly all in Markets, reflected extension of product coverage improvements in models and Credit risk RWAs were down 57.8 billion or 16% to 313.4 billion reduction in weighting applied for exposure at default.
This was despite absorbing 13.8 billion of higher RWAs due to model partially offset by the impact of higher loss given defaults for updates.
Non-counterparty RWAs were down 32.1 billion or 10% to Market risk RWAs were down 12.3 billion or 29% to 30.3 billion 291.1 billion: in Non-Core 24.1 billion due to run-off and significantly all in Markets reflecting balance sheet and risk reduction disposals in commercial real estate, shipping and leveraged 9.0 billion and model changes of 1.5 billion.
finance portfolios: and in Retail & Commercial 10.0 billion due to loans migrating into default, risk parameter changes and Operational risk RWAs were down 4.0 billion or 9% to 41.8 billion balance sheet reduction.
primarily due to reductions in Markets.
For additional analyses on RWAs by sector and related density see pages 207 and 208. unaudited 203 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Capital management continued Risk-weighted assets continued FLB3 and Basel 2.5 The following tables set out RWAs under future and current rules.
Estimated FLB3 Basel 2.5 2013 bn bn UK Retail 43.9 43.9 UK Corporate 82.9 86.1 Wealth 12.0 12.0 International Banking 50.3 49.0 Ulster Bank 30.1 30.7 US Retail & Commercial 58.8 56.1 Retail & Commercial 278.0 277.8 Markets 99.9 64.5 Centre 13.1 10.1 Core 391.0 352.4 Non-Core 34.2 29.2 Group before RFS Holdings minority interest 425.2 381.6 RFS Holdings minority interest 3.9 3.9 Group 429.1 385.5 Key points Estimated FLB3 RWAs were 43.6 billion or 11% higher than under Credit valuation adjustments, 16.7 billion and financial current rules principally reflecting: institution asset valuation correlation, 5.6 billion.
Treatment of securitisations as risk-weighted at 1,250% instead Other model and methodology changes, 7.2 billion.
of as capital deductions, 18.7 billion.
Reduced risk-weighting for small and medium-sized enterprises, 4.6 billion, mainly in UK Corporate.
unaudited 204 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Reconciliation between accounting and regulatory consolidation The table below provides a reconciliation between accounting and regulatory consolidation.
Insurance undertakings and non-financial undertakings are excluded from the regulatory consolidation, although they are included in the consolidation for financial reporting.
2 The Group must proportionally consolidate its associates for regulatory purposes where they are classified as credit institutions or financial institutions.
These will generally have been equity accounted for financial reporting purposes.
unaudited 205 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Capital management continued Balance sheet to exposure at default bridge The table below provides a bridge between the balance sheet and credit exposure at default EAD by balance sheet caption.
Other regulatory adjustments Methodology Within the differences Total Undrawn and Balance Consolidation Regulatory scope of Credit Netting and Capital and drawn off-balance Total sheet differences 1 consolidation market risk 2 provisions 3 collateral 4 deduction 5 reclassifications 6 EAD sheet EAD EAD 2013 bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Cash and balances at central banks 82.7 0.4 83.1 1.7 84.8 84.8 Reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing 76.4 76.4 51.3 25.1 25.1 Loans and advances 418.4 4.7 423.1 25.2 28.4 0.4 7.9 411.6 75.6 487.2 Debt securities 113.6 1.1 114.7 56.7 0.3 1.5 2.0 58.8 0.1 58.9 Equity shares 8.8 8.8 7.2 0.1 0.1 1.6 1.6 Settlement balances 5.6 5.6 5.6 Derivatives 288.0 288.0 1.8 242.8 2.1 44.9 44.9 Intangible assets 12.4 12.4 12.4 Property, plant and equipment 7.9 0.9 7.0 0.7 7.7 7.7 Deferred tax 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.5 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 7.6 1.0 6.6 1.1 5.5 Assets of disposal groups 3.0 3.0 3.0 Total assets 1,027.9 4.3 1,032.2 69.5 27.4 322.5 15.4 14.2 638.0 75.7 713.7 Contingent obligations 7 30.5 30.5 106.2 744.2 Notes: 1 Represents proportional consolidation of associates and deconsolidation of certain subsidiaries, as required by regulatory rules.
Refer to previous page for additional details.
2 The exposures in regulatory trading book businesses are subject to market risk and are therefore excluded from EAD.
Refer to the Market risk section on page 318.
3 Impairment loss provisions on loans and advances and securities, and credit valuation adjustment on derivatives.
4 Includes: - Reverse repos: reflects regulatory approach for securities financing transactions including netting of collateral and cash legs.
- Loans and advances: cash collateral pledged with counterparties in relation to net derivative liability positions.
- Derivatives: impact of master netting arrangements.
5 Capital deductions are excluded as EAD only captures exposures for credit RWAs.
6 Comprises: - Cash and balances at central banks: notice balances with central banks included in loans and advances, reclassified as central bank balances for EAD.
- Loans and advances: includes offset related to cash management pooling arrangements not allowed under IFRS, standardised approach credit risk mitigation and reclassification of central bank balances.
This is partially offset by the reclassification of disposal groups and prepayments, accrued income and other assets as customer balances.
- Debt securities: gross up of banking book securities that are matched by trading book short positions that cannot be offset under regulatory rules.
- Derivatives: reflects difference between netting arrangements and netting within regulatory model sets as well as EAD valuation adjustments.
- Property, plant and equipment: includes residual value of operating leases.
- Prepayments, accrued income and other assets: includes amounts reclassified to loans and advances.
- Assets of disposal groups: amounts reclassified to relevant balance sheet lines for EAD.
7 Includes documentary credits commercial letters of credit providing for payment by the Group to a named beneficiary against presentation of specified documents, classified as commitments for financial reporting, and amounts related to entities proportionally consolidated for regulatory reporting.
unaudited 206 Business review Risk and balance sheet management RWA density The table below analyses EAD, RWAs and related RWA density by sector cluster.
3 RWA density represents RWAs as a percentage of EAD.
5 TMT: Telecoms, media and technology.
unaudited 208 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Liquidity and funding risk 210 Definition 210 Overview 210 Liquidity risk 210 - Policy, framework and governance 211 - Regulatory oversight 211 - Measurement and monitoring 212 - Stress testing and contingency planning 213 - Liquidity reserves 214 - Liquidity portfolio 215 - Net stable funding ratio 216 Funding risk 216 - Funding sources 216 - Analysis 216 - Funding sources 217 - Wholesale funding 218 - Total funding by currency 218 - Notes issued 219 - Deposits and repos 219 - Firm financing 220 - Divisional loan:deposit ratios and funding surplus 220 - Maturity analysis 223 - Encumbrance 226 - Summary of assets available as collateral on and off-balance sheet 209 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Liquidity and funding risk Liquidity risk Definition Policy, framework and governance Liquidity and funding risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its The Groups liquidity policy reflects internal appetite, best market practice financial obligations, including financing wholesale maturities or customer and complies with prevailing regulatory structures.
These policies are deposit withdrawals, as and when they fall due.
designed to address four broad issues which ensure that: The risk arises through the maturity transformation role that banks The Groups main legal entities maintain adequate liquid resources perform.
It is dependent on company specific factors such as maturity at all times to meet liabilities as they fall due.
profile, composition of sources and uses of funding, the quality and size of the liquidity portfolio as well as broader market factors, such as The Group maintains an adequate liquid asset portfolio appropriate wholesale market conditions alongside depositor and investor behaviour.
to the business activities of the Group and its risk profile.
Overview The Group has in place robust strategies, policies, systems, and During 2013 the Groups deposit surplus continued to build and procedures for identifying, measuring, monitoring and managing liquidity reserves were maintained at strong levels, further liquidity risk.
This allowed the Group to easily absorb the minimal outflows following the announcement of the S&P The Group has a comprehensive liquidity risk management credit rating downgrade AA-2 from A A-1, with a negative outlook framework in place to ensure the Group maintains an appropriate in November 2013. level of financial resources to meet its financial obligations as and when they fall due.
Following the continued success of the Groups Non-Core run-down and the reduction in the size of the Markets business, the Groups The risk management framework identifies the sources of liquidity risk loan:deposit ratio improved by 600 basis points in the year to 94%.
and the steps the Group can take when these risks exceed certain In response, the Group has been actively managing down excess actively monitored limits.
These actions include when and how to use the cash, through liability management exercises and deposit re-pricing.
Groups liquidity reserves and what other adjustments to the Groups balance sheet should be undertaken to manage these risks within the The Groups credit profile improved significantly during the year, Groups risk appetite.
evidenced by the narrowing of the credit spreads.
The spread of the most recent subordinated debt issue in December 2013 was 125 The Groups appetite for liquidity risk is set by the Board as a percentage basis points lower than a comparable issuance in 2012. of the Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment ILAA stressed outflows and then managed on a daily basis by various functions within the Continued reduction in the utilisation of wholesale funding and business with liquidity risk controlled at legal entity, country, regional and improvements in the characteristics and behavioural properties of divisional levels.
Short-term wholesale funding excluding derivative collateral STWF reduced by 22% in the year to 32.4 billion, In setting risk limits the Board takes into account the nature of the covered more than four times by the liquidity portfolio and the ratio Groups various activities, the Groups overall risk appetite, market best of customer deposits to total funding improved to 75% from 70%.
Continued enablement of new unencumbered assets as preThe Group Asset and Liability Management Committee GALCO sets positioned collateral for various central bank liquidity facilities.
and reviews the liquidity risk management framework and limits within the risk appetite set by the Group Board.
GALCO oversees the implementation of liquidity management across the Group.
Each significant legal entity has a nominated Legal Entity Liquidity Risk Owner who is responsible for managing the liquidity risk for their legal entity.
Group Treasury conducts the review, challenge and reporting of the Groups liquidity performance, while GALCOs management of liquidity risk is overseen by the Executive Risk Forum, Executive Committee and the Group Board.
210 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Regulatory oversight Measurement and monitoring The Group operates in multiple jurisdictions and is subject to a number of In implementing the Groups liquidity risk management framework, a suite regulatory regimes.
of tools are used to monitor, limit and stress test the risks within the balance sheet.
The limits control the amount and composition of funding The Groups principal regulator, the PRA, has a comprehensive set of sources, asset and liability mismatches and funding concentrations, in liquidity policies, the cornerstone of which is Policy Statement PS 09 16. addition to the level of liquidity risk.
In order to comply with the PRA regulatory process, the Group: To foster appropriate pricing behaviour, decision making and balance At least annually, completes and keeps updated an ILAA: sheet composition Group Treasury uses transfer pricing of liquidity and funding costs, limits and parameters.
This ensures liquidity and funding Undertakes the Focused Liquidity Review process which is a risk is reflected in the measurement of divisional business performance comprehensive review of the Groups ILAA, liquidity policies and and ensures divisions are being correctly incentivised to source the most operational capacity and capability.
This in turn leads to the Group appropriate mix of funding.
and the PRA agreeing the parameters of Groups Individual Liquidity Guidance ILG which influences the overall size of the Groups The Boards determination and quantification of the appetite for liquidity liquidity portfolio.
risk is primarily determined by reference to the ILAA which includes a comparison of the size of liquidity portfolio to an assessment of stressed In addition, the Groups US operations meet liquidity requirements set out outflows.
The ILAA also informs the Board and PRA of the Groups by the Federal Reserve Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the liquidity risks, their mitigation and about the current and future liquidity Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Financial profile.
In the Netherlands, RBS N. V. is subject to the fide Nederlandsche Bank liquidity oversight regime.
In the Republic of Within the liquidity portfolio the Group holds cash at central banks, high Ireland, Ulster Bank Ireland Limited is subject to oversight from the quality government securities and collateral eligible for use in central Central Bank of Ireland.
bank operations, such as the Bank of Englands Discount Window Facility.
In January 2013, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision BCBS issued its revised draft guidance for calculating the liquidity coverage In determining what assets should be held within the liquidity portfolio, the ratio LCR, which is currently expected to come into force from 1 liquidity risk management framework dictates minimum internal quality January 2015 on a phased basis.
Pending the finalisation of the criteria, level of currency diversification and maturity mix.
The liquidity definitions, the Group monitors the LCR and the net stable funding ratio value of an asset is generally determined by reference to the haircut that NSFR in its internal reporting framework based on its interpretation and would be applied by a central bank operation or in a private repurchase expectation of the final rules.
On this basis, as of 31 December 2013, the agreement.
Groups LCR was 102% and the NSFR 122%.
At present there is a broad range of interpretations on how to calculate The Group actively monitors a range of market-wide and firm-specific both the NSFR and the LCR due to the lack of commonly agreed early warning indicators of emerging liquidity stresses.
The Group continues to assess the impact of these such areas as customer deposit outflows, market funding costs and consultations and actively communicates with regulators and industry movements in the Groups credit default swap premiums.
Assumptions will be refined as regulatory interpretations evolve.
indicators and regulatory metrics are reported daily to senior management, including the CFO and Group Treasurer.
Under the EU Capital Requirements Regulation to implement the recommended guidance of Basel 3, the European Banking Authority Liquidity risks are reviewed daily at a significant legal entity level and EBA is tasked with issuing a set of technical standards for implementing performance reported at least monthly to legal entity, divisional and the LCR within the EU, to be ratified by the European Commission before Group Asset and Liability Management Committees.
The LCR metric will come into effect as a minimum internal metric limits will set in motion a series of actions and escalations standard from 1 January 2015. that could lead to activation of the Groups Contingency Funding Plan.
The PRA has issued a statement proposing to retain the existing ILG In November 2013, the Groups credit rating was downgraded by framework until 31 December 2014, whilst the EBAs implementation of Standard & Poors.
Prior to this event, the Group undertook an intensive the LCR is finalised.
internal review of the magnitude of a rating downgrade on customer and Several regulatory regimes outside the EU where the Group operates counterparty behaviours and these included stress testing and scenario have also published consultation papers with guidance for modelling.
This analysis was also shared with the PRA.
Following the implementation of the LCR, including the Joint Banking Supervisors of downgrade by Standard & Poors, there was minimal impact on customer the US.
We anticipate further consultations for LCR standards to be or counterparty behaviour, the primary reason for deposit withdrawals published across other jurisdictions in which the Group operates during was due to contractual downgrade triggers or the rating no longer the course of 2014.
Additionally, the BCBS has issued a proposal for meeting the customer or counterpartys investment requirements.
revising the guidance on NSFR, expected to be finalised in 2014. unaudited 211 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Liquidity risk continued Key liquidity risk stress testing assumptions Stress testing and contingency planning Liquidity stress tests apply scenario-based behavioural and contractual Net wholesale funding - Outflows at contractual maturity of assumptions to cash inflows and outflows to assess the level of liquidity wholesale funding, with no rollover new issuance, prime brokerage, reserves required under a particular scenario.
100% loss of excess client derivative margin and 100% loss of excess client cash.
A stress event can occur when either firm-specific or market-wide factors or a combination of both lead to depositors and investors to withdraw or Secured financing and increased haircuts - Loss of secured funding not to renew funding on maturity.
This could be caused by many factors capacity at contractual maturity date and incremental haircut including fears over the viability of the firm.
Additionally, liquidity stress widening, depending upon collateral type.
can be brought on by customers choosing to draw down on loan agreements and facilities.
Retail and commercial bank deposits - Substantial outflows as the Group could be seen as a greater credit risk than competitors.
Simulated liquidity stress testing is performed at least quarterly for each division as well as the major operating subsidiaries in order to evaluate Intra-day cash flows - Liquid collateral held against intra-day the strength of the Groups liquidity risk management.
requirement at clearing and payment systems is regarded as encumbered with no liquidity value assumed.
Liquid collateral is held Stress tests are designed to examine the impact of a variety of firmagainst withdrawal of unsecured intra-day lines provided by third specific and market-wide scenarios on the future adequacy of the parties.
Stress test scenarios are designed to take into account the Groups experiences during the financial crisis, recent market Intra-group commitments and support - Risk of cash within conditions and events.
These scenarios can be run at any time in subsidiaries becoming unavailable to the wider Group and response to the emergence of firm-specific or market-wide risks that contingent calls for funding on Group Treasury from subsidiaries and could have a material impact on the Groups liquidity position.
these have included credit rating changes and political and economic conditions changing in particular countries.
Funding concentrations - Additional outflows recognised against concentration of providers of wholesale secured financing.
In determining the adequacy of the Groups liquidity resources the Group focuses on the outflows it anticipates as a result of any stress scenario Off-balance sheet activities - Collateral outflows due to market occurring.
These outflows are measured over certain time periods which movements, and all collateral owed by the Group to counterparties extend from two weeks to three months.
The Group is expected to be but not yet called: anticipated increase in firms derivative initial able to withstand these stressed outflows through its own resources margin requirement in stress scenarios: collateral outflows primarily through the use of the liquidity portfolio without having to resort contingent upon a multi-notch credit rating downgrade of Group to extraordinary central bank or governmental assistance.
firms: drawdown on committed facilities provided to corporates, based on counterparty type, creditworthiness and facility type: and The Groups liquidity risk appetite is measured by reference to the drawdown on retail commitments.
liquidity portfolio as a percentage of stressed contractual and behavioural outflows under the worst of three severe stress scenarios, as prescribed Franchise viability - Group liquidity stress testing includes additional by the PRA.
These are a market-wide stress, an idiosyncratic stress and liquidity in order to meet outflows that are non-contractual in nature, a combination of both.
At 31 December 2013, the Groups liquidity but are necessary in order to support valuable franchise businesses.
portfolio was 145% of the worst case stress requirements.
Management action - Unencumbered marketable assets that are held outside of the Core liquidity portfolio and are of verifiable liquidity value to the firm, are assumed to be monetised subject to haircut valuation adjustment.
The Group has a Contingency Funding Plan CFP, which is updated at least annually and as the balance sheet evolves and forms the basis of analysis and actions to remediate adverse events as and if they arise.
The CFP provides a detailed description of the availability, size and timing of all sources of contingent liquidity available to the Group in a stress event.
These are ranked in order of economic impact and effectiveness to meet the anticipated stress requirement.
The CFP includes documented processes for actions that may be required to meet the outflows and specifies roles and responsibilities for the effective implementation of the CFP.
unaudited 212 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Liquidity reserves Separately from the liquidity portfolio, the Group holds high quality assets Liquidity risks are mitigated by the Groups centrally managed liquidity to meet payment systems collateral requirements, these assets are not portfolio.
The size of the portfolio is determined under the Groups freely available to other areas of the Group.
liquidity risk management framework with reference to the Groups risk appetite.
The Group categorises its liquidity portfolio, including its locally managed liquidity portfolios, into primary and secondary liquid assets.
The majority of the portfolio is centrally managed by Group Treasury, ring-fenced from the Markets trading book, and is the ultimate Primary liquid assets generally comprise eligible liquid assets, such as responsibility of the Group Treasurer.
This portfolio is held in the PRA cash and balances at central banks, treasury bills and other high quality regulated UK Defined Liquidity Group UK DLG comprising the Groups government and US agency bonds.
five UK banks: The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, National Westminster Bank Plc, Ulster Bank Limited, Coutts & Company and Adam & Secondary liquid assets comprise other assets that are eligible as Company.
collateral for local central bank liquidity facilities but do not meet the core local regulatory definition.
These assets include own-issued Certain of the Group's significant operating subsidiaries - RBS N. V. RBS securitisations or whole loans that are retained on balance sheet and preCitizens Financial Group, Inc. and Ulster Bank Ireland Limited - hold positioned with a central bank so that they may be converted into locally managed portfolios of liquid assets that comply with local additional sources of liquidity at very short notice.
regulations but differ from PRA rules.
These portfolios are the responsibility of the local Treasurer who reports to the Group Treasurer.
The composition of the liquidity portfolio is influenced by quality of counterparty, maturity mix and currency mix.
The PRA rules dictate The UK DLG liquidity portfolio accounted for c. 88% of the Groups total certain minimum quality standards for the UK DLG liquidity portfolio.
The liquidity portfolio, this portion is available to meet liquidity needs as they liquidity value of the portfolio is determined with reference to current arise across the Group.
The remaining liquidity reserves are held locally market prices and the haircuts necessary to generate cash from the within non-UK bank subsidiaries, the majority of this portion is restricted asset.
by regulatory requirements and therefore assumed to be restricted and only be available for use locally.
The Group in consultation with the PRA and subject to the requirements of the PRAs ILG can change the composition of its liquidity portfolio.
The change in composition may relate to market specific factors, changes in internal liquidity risk mix or regulatory guidance.
Liquidity metrics The table below sets out the key liquidity and related metrics monitored by the Group.
2013 2012 % % Stressed outflow coverage 1 145 128 Liquidity coverage ratio LCR 2 102 100 Net stable funding ratio NSFR 2 122 117 Notes: 1 The Groups liquidity risk appetite is based on the internal Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment which is measured by reference to the liquidity portfolio as a percentage of stressed outflows under the worst of three severe stress scenarios of a market-wide stress, an idiosyncratic stress and a combination of both.
Liquidity risk adequacy is determined by surplus of liquid assets over three months stressed outflows under the worst case stresses.
This assessment is performed in accordance with PRA guidance.
2 In January 2013, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision issued its revised draft guidance for calculating LCR which is currently expected to come into effect from January 2015 on a phased basis.
Pending the finalisation of the technical standards, the Group monitors the LCR and NSFR based on its interpretations of the expected final rules.
unaudited 213 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Liquidity risk continued Liquidity portfolio The table below analyses the Groups liquidity portfolio by product, liquidity value and carrying value.
Liquidity value is lower than carrying value as it is stated after the discounts applied by the Bank of England and other central banks to instruments, within the secondary liquidity portfolio, eligible for discounting.
GBP USD EUR Other Total Total liquidity portfolio m m m m m 2013 100,849 33,365 10,364 1,488 146,066 2012 84,570 35,106 26,662 831 147,169 2011 48,839 54,145 50,275 2,071 155,330 Notes: 1 The PRA regulated UK Defined Liquidity Group UK DLG comprises the Groups five UK banks: The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, National Westminster Bank Plc, Ulster Bank Limited, Coutts & Company and Adam & Company plc.
In addition, certain of the Group's significant operating subsidiaries - RBS N. V. RBS Citizens Financial Group, Inc. CFG and Ulster Bank Ireland Limited - hold locally managed portfolios of liquid assets that comply with local regulations that may differ from PRA rules.
2 Includes assets eligible for discounting at the Bank of England and other central banks.
214 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Net stable funding ratio NSFR The table below shows the composition of the Groups NSFR, based on the current interpretation of the expected final rules.
The Groups NSFR may change over time in line with regulatory developments and related interpretations.
2 Deferred tax and other liabilities.
3 Prepayments, accrued income, deferred tax, settlement balances and other assets.
Key point The NSFR has improved by 500 basis points to 122% in the year.
The required stable funding fell by 63 billion mainly due to the 31 billion decrease in customer lending reflecting balance sheet reduction, business disposals and a 24 billion reduction in other assets, principally equity shares reduction in Markets and lower disposal groups.
This was mostly offset by a 55 billion reduction in available stable funding primarily due to a 33 billion planned reduction in term wholesale funding and 11 billion in customer deposit outflow.
unaudited 215 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Funding risk During 2013, the Group repaid 8.5 billion of the original 10 billion Funding sources borrowed under the European Central Banks Long Term Refinancing The Groups primary funding source is its customer deposit base, Operation.
The remaining balance is used to fund certain of the Groups primarily built through its retail and commercial franchises in the UK, Eurozone banking subsidiaries and the usage of this facility will be Ireland and the US.
These deposits form a stable base which fully funds evaluated on an ongoing basis.
The Group has not drawn down any the Groups customer lending activities.
additional funds under the Bank of Englands Funding for Lending Scheme during the year and has repaid the initial drawing of 750 million Complementary to its deposit funding, the Group also accesses various in order to manage its excess cash position.
The Group remains wholesale markets for funding, on both a public and private basis.
These committed to supporting the objectives of the Funding for Lending include long-term secured and unsecured debt, short-term money scheme.
The Group has set policies for the prudent use of wholesale funding, as part of its wider liquidity policies.
Analysis Funding sources Maintaining access to global capital markets provides the Groups The Groups balance sheet composition is a function of the broad array of funding base with diversity.
Over time the Groups wholesale funding mix product offerings and diverse markets served by its core divisions.
The has been diversified by currency, geography, maturity and type.
The structural composition of the balance sheet is augmented as needed Group accesses the wholesale funding markets directly or through its through active management of both asset and liability portfolios.
The main operating subsidiaries via established funding programmes.
The objective of these activities is to optimise the liquidity profile in the normal use of different entities to access the market from time to time allows the business environment, while ensuring adequate coverage of all cash Group to further diversify its funding mix and in certain limited requirements under extreme stress conditions.
circumstances demonstrate to regulators that specific operating subsidiaries enjoy market access in their own right.
As set out below the Groups asset and liability types broadly match.
Customer deposits provide more funding than customer loans absorb: The Group may access various funding facilities offered by central banks repurchase agreements are largely covered by reverse repurchase from time to time.
The use of such facilities can be both part of a wider agreements: interbank lending and funding largely match each other and strategic objective to support initiatives to help stimulate economic growth this gap has narrowed over the past five years: and derivative assets are or as part of the Groups broader liquidity management and funding largely matched against derivative liabilities.
Overall usage and repayment of available central bank facilities will fit within the Groups overall liquidity risk appetite and concentration The table below shows the Groups sources and uses of funding.
2013 Liabilities Assets bn bn Customer deposits 1 407 373 Customer loans and advances 1 Bank deposits short-term only 1 14 18 Loan and advances to banks 1 Trading liabilities 2 67 93 Trading assets 2 Other liabilities and equity 3 100 90 Other assets 3 Repurchase agreements 85 76 Reverse repurchase agreements Term wholesale funding 1 69 90 Primary liquidity portfolio Funded balance sheet 742 740 Funded balance sheet Derivatives 286 288 Derivatives 1,028 1,028 Notes: 1 Excludes held for trading.
2 Financial instruments classified as held-for-trading HFT excluding security financing transactions and derivatives.
3 Includes non-HFT financial instruments and non-financial assets liabilities.
216 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Wholesale funding The table below summarises funding metrics.
Short-term wholesale funding 1 Total wholesale funding Net inter-bank funding 2 Excluding Including Excluding Including Net derivative derivative derivative derivative inter-bank Deposits Loans 3 collateral collateral collateral collateral funding bn bn bn bn bn bn bn 2013 32.4 51.5 108.1 127.2 16.2 17.3 1.1 2012 41.6 70.2 150.4 179.0 28.5 18.6 9.9 2011 102.4 134.2 226.2 258.1 37.3 24.3 13.0 Notes: 1 Short-term wholesale balances denote those with a residual maturity of less than one year and include longer-term issuances.
The table below shows the Groups principal funding sources excluding repurchase agreements.
billion reflecting the reduced funding requirement and ongoing liability management.
Notes issued The table below shows the Groups debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities by residual maturity.
2013 2012 2011 Deposits Repos Deposits Repos Deposits Repos m m m m m m Financial institutions - central and other banks 35,329 28,650 57,074 44,332 69,114 39,691 - other financial institutions 53,607 52,945 64,237 86,968 66,009 86,032 Personal and corporate deposits 364,062 3,539 369,755 1,072 370,744 2,780 452,998 85,134 491,066 132,372 505,867 128,503 161 billion or 39% of the customer deposits included above are The liquidity risk the Group is exposed to through security financing insured through the UK Financial Services Compensation Scheme, US transactions is significantly lower than in relation to unsecured funding.
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation scheme and other similar The Group limits any exposure by setting limits and monitoring any schemes.
Of the personal and corporate deposits above, 53% relate to mismatch of quality, maturity or currency.
The exposure is also monitored personal customers.
in the context of the available liquid assets.
The following table shows the Groups gross repos by quality and Firm financing maturity.
The Group has access to the short-term money markets to supplement deposit and wholesale funding.
The Groups reverse repos, mainly within Markets, are generally used to fund repos or to cover short positions.
In addition, repos are used to fund a small proportion of Markets trading assets and by Group Treasury as part of the liquidity portfolio management.
Less than More than 1 month 1 month Total 2013 bn bn bn AAand above 69.5 21.6 91.1 Other 27.6 7.1 34.7 Total 97.1 28.7 125.8 Key points 72% of the Groups repo balance related to AAor above collateral Of the 125.8 billion gross repos, 49.6 billion related to firm reducing the exposure to re-financing risk.
unaudited 219 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Funding risk continued Divisional loan:deposit ratios and funding surplus The table below shows divisional loans, deposits, loan:deposit ratios and customer funding surplus.
3 All conduits relate to International Banking and have been extracted and shown separately as they were funded by commercial paper issuance until the end of the third quarter of 2012.
Key point The loan:deposit ratio improved by 600 basis points to 94% with the funding surplus increasing to 25.1 billion from 2.0 billion at 31 December 2012.
The improvement in Retail & Commercial funding surplus was 6.6 billion and Non-Core run-off resulted in 21.2 billion contraction of its funding gap.
Maturity analysis The contractual maturity of balance sheet assets and liabilities reflects the maturity transformation role banks perform, lending long-term but obtaining funding predominantly through short-term liabilities such as customer deposits.
In practice, the behavioural profiles of many liabilities exhibit greater stability and longer maturity than the contractual maturity.
This is particularly true of many types of retail and corporate deposits which, despite being repayable on demand or at short notice, have demonstrated stable characteristics even in periods of acute stress such as those experienced in 2008.
Retail & Commercial The table below shows the behavioural and contractual maturity analysis of Retail & Commercial customer deposits.
Less than More than 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total 2013 bn bn bn bn Contractual maturity 381 12 393 Behavioural maturity 124 220 49 393 2012 Contractual maturity 380 20 1 401 Behavioural maturity 145 219 37 401 unaudited 220 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Contractual maturity The following table shows the residual maturity of financial instruments, based on contractual date of maturity.
Held-for-trading HFT assets and liabilities have been excluded from the maturity analysis in view of their short-term nature and are shown in total in the table below.
Hedging derivatives are included within the relevant maturity bands.
The typical characteristics that via own asset securitisations, covered bonds and securities support encumbrance are an ability to pledge those assets to another repurchase agreements.
counterparty or entity through operation of law without necessarily requiring prior notification, homogeneity, predictable and measurable not currently encumbered but can for instance be used to access cash flows, and a consistent and uniform underwriting and collection funding from market counterparties or central bank facilities as part process.
Retail assets including residential mortgages, credit card of the Groups contingency funding.
receivables and personal loans display many of these features.
In this category, the Group has in place From time to time the Group encumbers assets to serve as collateral to an enablement programme which seeks to identify assets which are support certain wholesale funding initiatives.
The three principal forms of capable of being encumbered and to identify the actions to facilitate encumbrance are own asset securitisations, covered bonds and such encumbrance whilst not impacting customer relationships or securities repurchase agreements.
The Groups encumbrance ratios are set out below.
2013 2012 2011 Encumbrance ratios % % % Total 17 18 19 Excluding balances relating to derivative transactions 19 22 26 Excluding balances relating to derivative and securities financing transactions 11 13 19 Key points The Groups total encumbrance ratio dropped to 17%.
Unencumbered financial assets covered unsecured liabilities excluding derivatives.
31% of the Groups residential mortgage portfolio was encumbered as at 31 December 2013.
In addition to the 451.4 billion on-balance sheet assets available to support future funding and collateral requirements there is 12.7 billion net off-balance sheet collateral available from reverse repurchase and derivative collateral transactions.
223 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Funding risk continued Encumbrance continued Balance sheet encumbrance Encumbered assets relating to: Encumbered Unencumbered Debt securities in issue Other secured liabilities Total assets Readily realisable 2 Securitisations Covered Secured encumbered % of related Liquidity Other Cannot be Derivatives Repos and conduits bonds deposits assets 1 assets portfolio Other realisable 3 encumbered 4 Total 2013 bn bn bn bn bn bn % bn bn bn bn bn Cash and balances at central banks 74.3 8.4 82.7 Loans and advances to banks 5.8 0.5 10.3 16.6 60 0.1 10.9 27.6 Loans and advances to customers - UK residential mortgages 14.6 16.2 30.8 28 60.8 18.6 110.2 - Irish residential mortgages 9.3 1.2 10.5 70 0.7 3.8 0.1 15.1 - US residential mortgages 3.5 3.5 18 9.5 6.7 19.7 - UK credit cards 3.4 3.4 52 3.1 6.5 - UK personal loans 3.4 3.4 38 5.5 8.9 - other 13.5 18.1 0.8 32.4 14 4.4 9.6 175.6 10.2 232.2 Reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing 76.5 76.5 Debt securities 0.9 5.5 55.6 2.7 64.7 57 17.0 31.9 113.6 Equity shares 0.5 5.3 5.8 66 3.0 8.8 Settlement balances 5.5 5.5 Derivatives 288.0 288.0 Intangible assets 12.4 12.4 Property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.4 5 7.5 7.9 Deferred tax 3.5 3.5 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 8.6 8.6 Assets of disposal groups 0.2 0.2 50.9 16.7 34.4 60.9 8.6 171.5 166.8 101.5 183.1 405.0 1,027.9 Own asset securitisations 17.4 Total liquidity portfolio 184.2 Liabilities secured Intra-Group - used for secondary liquidity 19.1 19.1 Intra-Group - other 18.4 18.4 Third-party 5 7.8 9.0 42.7 85.1 6.0 150.6 45.3 9.0 42.7 85.1 6.0 188.1 Notes: 1 Encumbered assets are those on the balance sheet that have been pledged to provide security for the liability shown above and are therefore not available to secure funding or to meet other collateral needs.
2 Unencumbered readily realisable assets are those assets on the balance sheet that can be readily used to meet funding or collateral requirements and comprise: a Liquidity portfolio: cash balances at central banks, high quality debt securities and loans that have been pre-positioned with central banks.
In addition, the liquidity portfolio includes securitisations of own assets which has reduced over the years and has been replaced by loans.
b Other readily realisable assets: other liquidity reserves, including assets that have been enabled for use with central banks: and unencumbered debt securities.
3 Unencumbered other realisable assets are those assets on the balance sheet that have no restrictions for funding and collateral purposes but are not readily realisable in their current form.
These assets include loans that could be prepositioned with central banks but have not been subject to internal and external documentation review and diligence work.
4 Assets that cannot be encumbered comprise: a derivatives, reverse repurchase agreements and trading related settlement balances.
b non-financial assets such as intangibles, prepayments and deferred tax.
d loans that cannot be pre-positioned with central banks based on criteria set by the central banks, primarily US, including date of origination and level of documentation.
e non-recourse invoice financing balances and certain shipping loans whose terms and structure prohibit their use as collateral.
5 In accordance with market practice the Group employs its own assets and securities received under reverse repo transactions as collateral for repos.
224 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Encumbered assets relating to: Debt securities in issue Other secured liabilities Total Encumbered Unencumbered Securitisations Covered Secured encumbered assets as a Liquidity Derivatives Repos and conduits bonds deposits assets % of related portfolio Other Total 2012 bn bn bn bn bn bn assets bn bn bn Cash and balances at central banks 70.2 9.1 79.3 Loans and advances to banks 5.3 0.5 12.8 18.6 59 12.7 31.3 Loans and advances to customers - UK residential mortgages 16.4 16.0 32.4 30 58.7 18.0 109.1 - Irish residential mortgages 10.6 1.8 12.4 81 2.9 15.3 - US residential mortgages 7.6 14.1 21.7 - UK credit cards 3.0 3.0 44 3.8 6.8 - UK personal loans 4.7 4.7 41 6.8 11.5 - other 20.7 22.5 0.8 44.0 16 6.5 217.1 267.6 Reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing 104.8 104.8 Debt securities 1.0 8.3 91.2 15.2 115.7 70 22.3 26.6 164.6 Equity shares 0.7 6.8 7.5 49 7.7 15.2 Settlement balances 6.7 6.7 Derivatives 441.9 441.9 Intangible assets 14.3 14.3 Property, plant and equipment 10.0 10.0 Deferred tax 3.5 3.5 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 8.7 8.7 61.7 16.5 44.3 98.0 17.8 238.3 165.3 908.7 1,312.3 Own asset securitisations 22.6 Total liquidity portfolio 187.9 Liabilities secured Intra-Group - used for secondary liquidity 22.6 22.6 Intra-Group - other 23.9 23.9 Third-party 1 12.0 10.1 60.4 132.4 15.3 230.2 58.5 10.1 60.4 132.4 15.3 276.7 Note: 1 In accordance with market practice the Group employs its own assets and securities received under reverse repo transactions as collateral for repos.
For information on collateral received and used relating to securities financing transactions SFT and derivatives refer to the following page.
225 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Funding risk continued Summary of assets available as collateral on and off-balance sheet The table below summarises total on and off-balance sheet assets that are available to support funding and collateral requirements.
2013 bn Total on-balance sheet assets 1,027.9 Less: - Reverse repos and derivatives 364.5 - Other assets not available to be pledged 40.5 Total on-balance sheet assets available 622.9 Add: - Fair value of securities received as collateral from reverse repo and derivative transactions 124.2 Total assets available 747.1 Less: - On-balance sheet assets pledged 171.5 - Reverse repo and derivative securities collateral that have been rehypothicated 111.5 Assets available to be pledged 464.1 Key point Of the 464.1 billion collateral available, 166.8 billion is in the Groups liquidity portfolio.
The remainder is available to support for general funding and collateral needs.
unaudited 226 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Credit risk 228 Definition 228 Sources of credit risk 228 Credit risk governance 229 Risk management 229 - Product asset class concentration framework 229 - Credit risk assessment 230 - Controls and assurance 230 Risk measurement 231 Credit risk assets 232 - Divisional analysis 233 - Sector and geographical regional analyses 236 - Asset quality 237 Risk mitigation 238 - Lending 241 - Counterparty credit risk 242 Early problem identification and problem debt management 242 - Wholesale 243 - Wholesale forbearance 245 - Retail 245 - Retail forbearance 250 - Recoveries 250 - Group impairment loss provisioning 250 - Provisioning methodology 251 - Impact of forbearance on provisioning 251 - Write-offs 252 Key loan portfolios 252 - Commercial real estate 258 - Residential mortgages 261 - Personal lending 262 - Interest only retail loans 265 - Ulster Bank Group Core and Non-Core 227 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Credit risk The Executive Risk Forum ERF considers and approves material Definition aspects of the Groups credit risk management framework, such as credit Credit risk is the risk of financial loss due to the failure of a customer or risk appetite and limits for portfolios of strategic significance.
The ERF counterparty to meet its obligation to settle outstanding amounts.
has delegated approval authority to the Group Credit Risk Committee, a functional sub-committee of the Group Risk Committee, to act on credit Sources of credit risk risk matters.
These include, but are not limited to, credit risk appetite and The Group is exposed to credit risk as a result of a wide range of limits within the overall risk appetite set by the Board and the ERF, business activities.
The most significant source of credit risk is lending.
credit risk strategy and frameworks, credit risk policy and the oversight of The second most significant source is counterparty credit risk, which the credit profile across the Group.
There are separate Group Credit Risk results from the Groups activities in the derivatives and securities Committees for the retail and wholesale portfolios and these are chaired financing transaction markets.
The Group offers a number of lending products where it has an The Group Audit Committee GAC provides oversight of the Groups irrevocable obligation to provide credit facilities to a customer.
The GCCO is accountable to the GAC for the may be obtained to mitigate the risk of loss in the form of physical adequacy of the Groups provisions, both individual and collective.
collateral, such as commercial real estate assets and residential property, The Group Provisions Committee, which is chaired by either the Group or financial collateral such as cash or bonds.
Also included in the Groups Chief Risk Officer or the GCCO, approves recommendations from the lending are exposures arising from leasing activities.
Derivatives and securities financing transactions expose the Group to Key trends in the credit risk profile of the Group, performance against counterparty credit risk, which is the risk of loss arising from a failure of a limits and emerging risks are set out in the RBS Risk Management customer to meet obligations which vary in value by reference to a Monthly Report provided to the Executive Committee, the Board Risk market factor.
Committee and the Group Board.
The Group holds debt securities with the intention of selling them and so Risk appetite and concentration framework is exposed to market risk.
However, it also holds some debt securities Risk appetite is set using specific quantitative targets under stress, generally for liquidity management purposes, and is exposed to credit risk including earnings volatility and capital adequacy.
The Groups credit risk as a result.
framework has therefore been designed around the factors that influence the Groups ability to meet those targets.
These include product and The Group is exposed to credit risk from off-balance sheet products such asset class, industry sector, single name and country concentrations.
Any as trade finance activities and guarantees.
of these factors could generate higher earnings volatility under stress and, if not adequately controlled, could undermine capital adequacy.
Credit risk governance Tools such as stress testing and economic capital are used to measure A strong credit risk management function is vital to support the ongoing credit risk volatility and develop links between Group risk appetite targets profitability of the Group.
The potential for loss is mitigated through a and the credit risk control framework.
The frameworks are supported by a robust credit risk culture in the business units and through a focus on suite of Group-wide and divisional policies that set out the risk sustainable lending practices.
The Groups credit risk management parameters within which divisions must operate.
The Group also function is responsible for credit approval and managing concentration manages its exposures to counterparty credit risk closely, using portfolio risk, as well as credit risk control frameworks and acts as the ultimate limits and specific tools to control more volatile or capital intensive authority for the approval of credit.
This, together with strong independent business areas.
oversight and challenge, enables the business to maintain a sound credit environment.
Wholesale Four formal frameworks are used to manage wholesale credit The Group Chief Credit Officer GCCO, through the Group Credit Risk concentration risk.
The Group continually reassesses its frameworks to GCR function, is responsible for the development of, and ensuring ensure that they remain appropriate for its varied business franchises and compliance with, Group-wide policies and credit risk frameworks as well current economic conditions, as well as to reflect further refinements in as Group-wide assessment of provision adequacy.
The risk management the Groups risk measurement models.
functions, located in the Groups business divisions, are responsible for the execution of these policies.
The divisional credit risk management functions work together with GCR to ensure that the risk appetite set by the Group Board is met.
The credit risk function in each division is managed by a Chief Credit Officer, who reports jointly to a divisional Chief Risk Officer and to the GCCO.
Divisional credit risk management activities include transaction analysis, credit approval, ongoing credit risk stewardship, and early problem identification and management.
228 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Risk management Retail Product asset class concentration framework A product and asset class framework exists to control credit risk for retail The Group manages certain lines of business where the nature of credit businesses.
It sets limits that measure and control the asset quality of risk assumed could result in a concentration or a heightened risk in some each key business area, the portfolios in that business and the new other form.
This includes specific credit risk types such as settlement or business being originated.
The actual performance of each portfolio is wrong-way risk and products such as long-dated derivatives or tracked relative to these limits and action taken where necessary.
These product and asset classes may require formal policies and expertise as well as tailored monitoring and reporting Credit risk assessment measures.
In some cases specific limits and thresholds are deployed to Wholesale ensure that the credit risk inherent in these lines of business and The credit risk function assesses, approves and manages the credit risk products is adequately controlled.
Product and asset classes are associated with a borrower or group of related borrowers.
The reviews consider the risks inherent in each product or asset class, the risk controls applied, monitoring and reporting The GCCO has established a framework of individual delegated of the risk, the client base, and any emerging risks to ensure risk appetite authorities, which are set out in the Group Credit Risk Policy.
framework requires at least two individuals to approve each credit decision, one from the business and one from the credit risk function.
Sector concentration Both must hold appropriate delegated authority, which is dependent on Exposures are assigned to, and reviewed in the context of, a defined set their experience and expertise.
Only a small number of senior executives of industry sectors.
Risk appetite and portfolio strategies are set at either hold the highest authority provided under the framework.
While both the sector or sub-sector level, depending on where exposures may result parties are accountable for the quality of each decision taken, the credit in excessive concentration, or where trends in both external factors and risk approver holds ultimate sanctioning authority.
internal portfolio performance give cause for concern.
Regular formal reviews are undertaken at Group or divisional level depending on In all circumstances the risks associated with any proposal to provide, materiality.
Reviews may include an assessment of the Groups franchise increase, review or change the terms or conditions of credit facilities must in a particular sector, an analysis of the outlook, identification of key be assessed prior to a credit decision being made.
Assessments of credit vulnerabilities or stress testing.
risk must, at a minimum, specifically address the following elements: As a result of the reviews carried out in 2013, the Group further reduced The amount, terms, tenor, structure, conditions, purpose and its risk appetite in the corporate sectors of commercial real estate and appropriateness of all credit facilities: retail.
For further details on sector-specific strategies, exposure reduction and key credit risks, refer to pages 252 to 267.
Compliance with applicable Group and or divisional credit policies: Single name concentration The customers ability to meet obligations, based on an analysis of A single name concentration SNC framework addresses the risk of financial information and a review of payment and covenant outsized exposure to a borrower or borrower group.
The framework compliance history: includes elevated approval authority, additional reporting and monitoring, and the requirement for plans to address exposures in excess of appetite.
The source of repayment and the customers risk profile, including sector analysis and sensitivity to economic and market Several credit risk mitigation techniques are available to reduce single developments, and credit risk mitigation: name concentrations.
If the Group decides that its exposure is too high, it may decide to sell excess exposures.
Alternatively, it may decide to take Refinancing risk - that is the risk of loss arising from the failure of a additional security or guarantees such as cash, bank or government customer to settle an obligation on expiry of a facility through the guarantees or enter into credit default swaps.
Credit risk mitigants must drawdown of another credit facility provided by the Group or by be effective in terms of legal certainty and enforceability.
In addition, another lender: maturity or expiry dates must be the same, or later, than the underlying obligations.
Consideration of all other risks such as environmental, social and ethical, regulatory and reputational risks: and Aggregate SNC exposures remain outside of the Groups longer-term appetite.
However, material reductions have been achieved since the The portfolio impact of the transaction, including the impact on any framework was introduced.
This trend continued during the year, with a credit risk concentration limits or agreed divisional risk appetite.
21% decrease in the number of excesses since December 2012.
At a minimum, credit relationships are reviewed and re-approved Country concentration annually.
The renewal process addresses borrower performance, The country concentration framework is described in the Country risk including reconfirmation or adjustment of risk parameter estimates: the section on pages 341 to 353. adequacy of security: compliance with terms and conditions: and refinancing risk.
unaudited 229 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Credit risk continued Risk management continued Counterparty exposures - measured using marked-to-market value Retail of derivatives after the effect of enforceable netting agreements and Retail lending entails making a large number of small value loans.
To regulatory approved models but before the effect of collateral.
ensure that it makes these lending decisions consistently, the Group Counterparty exposures include rate risk management, which analyses the historical debt servicing behaviour of customers, including includes exposures arising from foreign exchange transactions, their behaviour with respect to their other lenders.
The Group then uses interest rate swaps, credit default swaps and options.
Exposures are the results of these analyses to set its lending rules, developing different mitigated by off-setting in-the-money and out-of-the-money rules for different products.
The resulting credit decision making process transactions where such transactions are governed by legally is then largely automated, with customers receiving a credit score that enforceable netting agreements and exposures are calculated by reflects the outcome of a comparison of their credit profile with the rule regulatory approved models.
Exposures are shown before deducting set.
However, in the case of relatively high value, complex personal or collateral.
small business loans, including some residential mortgage lending, specialist credit managers make the final lending decisions.
Contingent obligations - measured using the value of the committed amount and including primarily letters of credit and guarantees.
Controls and assurance The Groups credit control and assurance framework has three key CRA exclude issuer risk primarily debt securities and securities components: credit policy: policy compliance assurance: and financing, repurchase and reverse repurchase arrangements.
These apply to both wholesale and retail credit account of regulatory netting although, in practice, obligations are settled risk at both portfolio and individual customer level.
under legal netting arrangements that provide a right of legal set-off but do not meet the offset criteria under IFRS.
The first component is the Group Credit Policy Standard, which is part of the Group Policy Framework.
It sets out the rules the Groups businesses Credit risk models must follow to ensure that credit risks are identified and effectively The Group uses credit risk models in the credit approval process, managed through the credit lifecycle.
ongoing credit risk management, monitoring and reporting and portfolio analytics.
These may be divided into three categories: The second component is a policy assurance activity that GCR undertakes to provide the GCCO with evidence of the effectiveness of Probability of default PD credit risk management controls in place across the Group.
The results of PD models assess the probability of a customer failing its credit these reviews are presented to the Group Credit Risk Committee on a obligations over a one year period.
regular basis in support of the self-certification that GCR must complete from time to time.
Wholesale models - A number of credit grading models are in place that consider risk characteristics relevant to different customer The third component of the Groups credit assurance framework is the types.
These models use a combination of quantitative inputs, such Credit Quality Assurance CQA function.
CQA independently reviews the as recent financial performance, and qualitative inputs such as Groups lending activities to identify control breaches, assess portfolio management performance or sector outlook.
As part of the credit quality and recommend process improvements.
These findings are assessment process, the Group assigns each customer an internal escalated to senior management and plans to address shortcomings are credit grade based on its PD.
recorded and tracked in the Groups operational risk system.
CQAs activities are overseen by GAC and the results of its reviews are regularly Retail models - Each customer account is scored and models are shared with the Groups main regulators.
Inputs vary across portfolios and include both internal account and customer level data, as well as data from credit Risk measurement bureaus.
This score is used to support automated credit decision The Group uses a range of measures for credit risk exposures.
The making through the use of a statistically derived scorecard.
internal measure used, unless otherwise stated, is credit risk assets CRA consisting of: Exposure at default EAD EAD models provide estimates of the level of use of a credit facility at the Lending exposure - measured using drawn balances and includes time of a customer's default, recognising that customers may make cash balances at central banks and loans and advances to banks further drawings on unused credit facilities prior to default.
Regulatory and customers including overdraft facilities, instalment credit and requirements determine that EAD is always equal to or higher than finance leases.
Exposure can be reduced by a netting agreement, subject to meeting standards of legal enforceability.
unaudited 230 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Loss given default LGD Model changes affect year-on-year comparisons of risk measures in LGD models estimate the amount that cannot be recovered in the event certain disclosures.
Where meaningful, the Group in its commentary has of customer default.
When estimating LGD, the Groups models assess differentiated between instances where movements in risk measures both borrower and facility characteristics, as well as various credit risk reflect the impact of model changes, and those that reflect movements in mitigants.
The cost of collections and a time discount factor for the delay the size of underlying credit portfolios or their credit quality.
in cash recovery are also incorporated.
Economic capital Changes to credit models The credit economic capital model is an extensive framework that allows The Group reviews and updates models on an ongoing basis, reflecting for the calculation of portfolio credit loss distributions and associated more recent data, changes to products and portfolios, and updated metrics over a given risk horizon for a variety of business purposes.
Extensive changes were made to wholesale models in 2012 and 2013.
This process continues with further changes, The model takes into account migration risk risk that credit assets will notably in banks and corporate exposure classes, planned for 2014. deteriorate in credit quality across multiple years, factor correlation the assumption that groups of obligors share a common factor and As in 2012, the impact of the model changes implemented in 2013 largely contagion risk for example, the risk that the weakening of the sovereigns affected the lower risk segments of the Groups portfolios, mostly to creditworthiness has a significant impact on the creditworthiness of a customers bearing the equivalent of investment-grade ratings.
business operating in that country.
Credit risk assets The table below provides a bridge between balance sheet captions and the related components of credit risk assets CRA.
Methodology Within Not within Netting differences Balance the scope of the scope Credit and and sheet market risk 1 of CRA 2 adjustments 3 collateral 4 reclassifications 5 CRA 2013 bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Cash and balances at central banks 82.7 3.9 1.7 80.5 Reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing 76.4 76.4 Loans and advances 418.4 3.0 25.2 28.4 7.5 404.7 Debt securities 113.6 56.7 56.9 Equity shares 8.8 7.2 1.6 Settlement balances 5.6 5.6 Derivatives 288.0 1.8 242.8 9.9 56.9 Other assets 6 34.4 25.6 7.8 1.0 Total assets 1,027.9 69.5 167.4 27.0 271.2 3.7 543.1 Contingent obligations 7 29.9 573.0 Notes: 1 The exposures in regulatory trading book businesses are subject to market risk and are hence excluded from CRA.
Refer to the market risk section on page 318.
2 Includes cash in ATMs and branches, items in the course of collection, reverse repurchase agreements, securities and other assets refer to note below.
3 Includes impairment loss provisions related to loans and advances and credit valuation adjustment on derivatives.
4 Comprises: - Loans and advances: cash collateral pledged with counterparties in relation to net derivative liability positions.
5 Comprises: - Cash and balances at central banks: notice balances with central banks included in loans and advances, reclassified as central bank exposure in CRA.
- Loans and advances: includes offset related to cash management pooling arrangements not allowed under IFRS and reclassification of central bank balances.
This is partially offset by reclassification of disposal groups and prepayments, accrued income and other assets as customer balances.
- Derivatives: reflects difference between netting arrangements and netting within regulatory model sets, and balances with central counterparties after netting but before variation margin presented net on the balance sheet.
- Other assets: includes amounts reclassified to loans and advances from disposal groups and prepayments, accrued income and other assets and residual value of operating leases.
6 Other assets: includes intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, deferred tax, prepayments and accrued income and assets of disposal groups.
7 Includes documentary credits commercial letters of credit providing for payment by the Group to a named beneficiary against presentation of specified documents, classified as commitments for financial reporting.
59% of the 52.8 billion The increase in CRA in other predominantly related to Group reduction was in the Core divisions.
Treasurys exposure to central banks in the UK and US and was a function of the Groups liquidity requirements and cash positions.
CRA in the Retail & Commercial divisions continued to increase as a Exposures to central banks in Western Europe decreased by 76% proportion of the Core portfolio, accounting for 71% of the Core CRA year-on-year and at the year end represented 7% of other 2012 - 69%.
The reduction in the Core portfolio was mostly driven by the At the year end, Non-Core accounted for 8% of total CRA 2012 - implementation of a risk reduction strategy in Markets.
CRA in 10% as asset disposals and run-offs continued.
Some 50% of the Markets fell by 24% during the year, affected by a contraction in reduction in Non-Core was in the property sector as the Group lending and rate risk management activities.
Markets represented continued to reduce its concentration in this sector, in particular 15% of Core CRA 2012 - 19%.
CRA decreased in all Core commercial real estate.
divisions with the exception of other.
unaudited 232 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Sector and geographical regional analyses The table below details CRA by sector and geographical region.
Sectors are based on the Groups sector concentration framework.
Geographical region is based on the location of the customers operations or, in the case of individuals, location of residence.
Western Europe North Asia Latin UK excl.
2 Includes cash held at central banks.
3 Excludes net investment in operating leases in shipping and aviation portfolios as they are accounted for as property, plant and equipment.
However, operating leases are included in the monitoring and management of these portfolios.
unaudited 233 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Credit risk continued Credit risk assets continued Exposure to banks and financial institutions declined by 20%.
This Key points was primarily as a result of limited lending and interbank money Financial markets and the Groups focus on risk appetite and sector market activity which fell by 8% and a reduction in derivative concentration had a direct impact on the portfolio during the year with the exposures which fell by 27%.
The declining trend in interbank following key trends observed: activity was largely attributable to increased bank liquidity including access to liquidity via schemes put in place via central banks and Total CRA fell 8%, with the only notable increase being in the governments.
The reduction in derivative exposure was due to the sovereign sector, including exposures to central banks increased Group exiting certain products and the benefits of regulatory netting 3%.
Excluding sovereign exposures, CRA decreased by 10%.
derived from the implementation of new modelling methodology.
The Group has a suite of control frameworks and policies for managing At the year end, the portfolio comprised 31% personal exposure the derivatives portfolio, particularly uncollateralised derivatives with 2012 - 29%, sovereign 15% 2012 - 13% exposure to banks and long tenors.
During the year the control framework for this segment other financial institutions 16% 2012 - 18%, property 13% 2012 - of the portfolio was further tightened.
Exposure to other financial institutions comprises a range of CRA fell in all geographic regions.
The largest decrease, in Western financial companies, the largest of which were funds 25% Europe, was primarily a result of reduced exposures to European securitisation vehicles 22% and financial intermediaries 16% central banks.
including broker dealers and central counterparties CCPs.
The Core other financial institutions portfolio decreased by 8% in 2013.
UK exposure increased to 56% of CRA 2012 - 51% because of a The Non-Core portfolio decreased by 31%.
16.2 billion rise in exposure to the Bank of England.
This was offset predominantly by falls in Non-Core property 7.5 billion and Core At the year end, the total exposure to CCPs was 4.1 billion 2012 - personal and banking sectors, which fell 4.3 billion in total.
Regulatory initiatives to encourage the wider use of Excluding sovereigns, UK Core exposure fell by 3%.
CCPs for clearing over-the-counter derivatives across the industry continue.
The Group supports this move but recognises that its The personal sector, excluding exposures in North America, fell by concentration risk to CCPs will continue to rise when it clears its own 2% due to reduced overdraft and lending exposure in the UK.
This trades, as well as when it acts as a clearing broker for third was offset by slightly increased UK mortgage exposure.
This increased concentration risk is being managed under a exposure in North America decreased disproportionately due to specific risk appetite and control framework.
The Groups CCP Non-Core exposures.
exposure remains dominated by a small number of well-established, high quality and reputable clearing houses.
Exposure to sovereigns fluctuates according to Group liquidity requirements and cash positions.
These are driven by inflows and The Group continued to manage down its exposures to financial outflows of deposits which determine the level of cash placed with guarantors - credit derivative products companies CDPCs and central banks and have contributed to higher exposures at the Bank monolines with a view to exiting these portfolios.
Exposure to of England and lower exposures at European central banks.
The financial guarantors declined by 69% and represented less than 1% Groups sovereign portfolio comprises exposures to central of the other financial institutions portfolio 2012 - 2%.
Exposures governments, central banks and sub-sovereigns such as local have decreased materially over time as trades are commuted and authorities, primarily in the Groups key markets of the UK, Western exposures reduced due to the tightening credit spread of the assets Europe and the US.
The asset quality is high because exposures protected by CDPCs and monolines.
At the year end, exposures to are largely short-term cash balances placed with central banks such CDPCs and monolines totalled 274 million 2012 - 874 million.
as the Bank of England, the Federal Reserve and the Eurosystem including the European Central Bank and central banks in the The majority of the Groups property exposure was commercial real eurozone.
Information on the Groups exposure to governments, estate in Ireland and the UK refer to Commercial real estate on including peripheral eurozone sovereigns, can be found in the pages 252 to 257 for further details.
The remainder comprised Country risk section.
lending to construction companies and building materials groups, which fell by 1.7 billion 15%, and housing associations, which Exposure to the banking sector is well diversified geographically.
A total of 59% of the Groups Core Limits and exposures are tightly controlled through the combination property exposure was in UK Corporate 2012 - 60% with Ulster of the SNC framework, bespoke credit policies and country limits.
Bank and US Retail & Commercial representing 10% and 9% Derivatives generated the largest exposure for banks 58% of credit respectively, unchanged from 2012. risk assets in the banks sector, but a large portion of the exposures was collateralised.
The increase in bank exposure in the Asia Pacific region was largely driven by short-term, trade finance related activities.
unaudited 234 Business review Risk and balance sheet management The Groups exposure to the shipping sector including shipping The reduction in exposure in the retail and leisure sector was related infrastructure declined by 18% in 2013 as a result of consistent with the Groups strategies to re-balance the Core scheduled loan amortisation, secondary sales and prepayments.
portfolios towards stronger customers in the sector while continuing Out of the total exposure of 11.4 billion, 8.6 billion related to to reduce the Non-Core book.
The modest growth in North America asset-backed exposure to ocean-going vessels of which dry bulk was in line with agreed sector and region risk appetite.
accounted for 35% of the exposure, tankers 34%, container ships 15%, gas 10% and other vessels 6%.
Conditions remained poor Exposure in the telecoms, media and technology sector fell by 18% across the major shipping market segments in 2013, as charter during the year, driven by divisional strategies to exit rates and vessel values remained depressed.
The majority of the underperforming sub-sectors in the portfolio.
Notably, media Groups exposure is extended against security in vessels of recent exposure fell 31% during the year.
construction, with less than 4% of the lending secured on vessels aged over 15 years.
A key protection for the Group is the minimum Exposure to healthcare of 9.5 billion at the year end 2012 - 9.9 security covenant.
The overall loan-to-value LTV on the portfolio at billion was included in the business services sector.
The Groups 31 December 2013 was 76%, split 70% for Core and 97% for Nonhealthcare exposure was heavily biased towards the UK, which Core portfolio respectively.
Within the Core portfolio, 13% of represented 68% of the exposure, unchanged from 2012. exposure had LTVs greater than 100%.
An increased number of clients suffered liquidity challenges during the year or failed to meet their minimum security covenant.
This led to a commensurate rise in referrals to the Watchlist and transfers to the Global Restructuring Group.
At 31 December 2013, 12% of the Groups exposure to this sector was in the Watch Red category and loans in default amounted to 0.9 billion.
unaudited 235 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Credit risk continued Exposures are allocated to asset quality bands on the basis of statistically Credit risk assets continued driven models, which produce an estimate of default rate.
The variables Asset quality AQ included in the models vary by product and geography.
For portfolios Internal reporting and oversight of CRA is principally differentiated by secured on residential property these models typically include measures credit grades.
Customers are assigned credit grades based on various of delinquency and loan to value as well as other differentiating credit grading models that reflect the key drivers of default for each characteristics such as bureau score, product features or associated customer type.
All credit grades across the Group map to both a Group account performance information.
level asset quality scale, used for external financial reporting, and a master grading scale for wholesale exposures, used for internal The table below shows CRA by asset quality band.
Accordingly, measures of risk exposure may be readily aggregated and reported at increasing levels of granularity depending on stakeholder or business need.
Performing loans are defined as AQ1-AQ9 where the PD is less than 100% and nonperforming loans as AQ10 where the PD is 100%.
2013 2012 2011 Divisional credit Divisional credit Divisional credit AQ10 risk assets AQ10 risk assets AQ10 risk assets AQ10 CRA by division m % m % m % UK Retail 4,462 3.9 4,998 4.4 5,097 4.6 UK Corporate 6,279 6.5 6,310 6.2 5,484 5.2 International Banking 572 0.9 612 0.9 1,736 2.4 Ulster Bank 9,198 27.8 8,236 24.1 6,305 16.7 US Retail & Commercial 536 1.0 633 1.2 646 1.1 Retail & Commercial 21,047 5.6 20,789 5.3 19,268 4.8 Markets 767 0.9 773 0.7 749 0.7 Core 21,814 4.1 21,562 3.8 20,017 3.4 Non-Core 20,743 47.9 22,845 35.0 25,020 27.0 42,557 7.4 44,407 7.1 45,037 6.7 unaudited 236 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Key points Risk mitigation Trends in the asset quality of the Groups credit risk exposures Risk mitigation techniques are used in the management of credit during 2013 reflected the change in the proportion of assets in the portfolios across the Group, typically to mitigate credit concentrations in sovereign sector and movements in the underlying asset quality of relation to an individual customer, a borrower group or a collection of the portfolio.
The Groups overall asset quality for performing assets related borrowers.
Where possible, the Group nets customer credit improved slightly year-on-year.
The increase in the proportion of the Groups Core exposures in the Mitigation tools applied can include: structuring a security interest in a AQ1 band reflected the increase in the Groups exposure to physical or financial asset: use of credit derivatives, including credit sovereigns, in line with the Groups liquidity and capital management default swaps, credit-linked debt instruments and securitisation practices.
structures: and use of guarantees and similar instruments for example, credit insurance from related and third parties.
The increase in AQ4 was due to a positive shift in the asset quality band distribution of UK Retail and reflected improvements in the When seeking to mitigate risk, at a minimum the Group considers the underlying credit quality of the UK Retail mortgage portfolio over the following: last three years.
The suitability of the proposed risk mitigation, particularly if Trends in the Groups non-performing credit risk exposures in 2013 restrictions apply: were predominantly driven by the Non-Core and Ulster Bank portfolios, with these two divisions accounting for 70% of the The means by which legal certainty is to be established, including Group's AQ10 CRA.
required documentation, supportive legal opinions and the steps needed to establish legal rights: Property continued to be the largest sector in non-performing assets - 57% of total AQ10 exposure 2012 - 58%.
Acceptable methodologies for initial and subsequent valuation of collateral, the frequency of valuation and the advance rates given: Non-performing assets in the Ulster Bank portfolio continued to grow, driven by exposures in the wholesale property sector.
Refer to The actions it can take if the value of collateral or other mitigants is Key loan portfolios: Ulster Bank Group Core and Non-Core on less than needed: pages 265 to 267 for more details.
The risk that the value of mitigants and counterparty credit quality The personal sector accounted for 21% 2012 - 21% of the Groups may deteriorate simultaneously: AQ10 exposure.
AQ10 exposure in this sector decreased during the year for all divisions except Ulster Bank.
The need to manage concentration risks arising from collateral types: and In UK Retail non-performing assets continued to fall, principally as a result of lower flows of assets into non-performing across all The need to ensure that any risk mitigation remains legally effective portfolios, as well as write-downs of aged debt.
The slight decrease in the level of AQ10 exposure in UK Corporate The Groups business and credit teams are supported by specialist inwas driven primarily by reductions in the property sector, offset by house documentation teams.
The Group uses industry-standard loan and increases in shipping.
At the year end, shipping represented 12% of security documentation wherever possible.
However, when the Group the AQ10 assets in UK Corporate 2012 - 8%.
uses non-standard documentation, external lawyers are employed on a case-by-case basis.
Non-Core exposure fell in all AQ bands.
unaudited 237 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Credit risk continued Risk mitigation continued Physical assets - These may include stock, plant, equipment, Lending machinery, vehicles, ships and aircraft.
Such assets are suitable The types of collateral the Group takes to mitigate the credit risk arising collateral only if the Group can identify, locate, and segregate them from wholesale lending varies according to the nature of the counterparty from other assets on which it does not have a claim.
The most common types are: values physical assets in a variety of different ways, depending on the type of asset concerned and may rely on balance sheet Commercial real estate - The market value of the collateral typically valuations in certain cases.
In the US, the Group also takes exceeds the loan amount at origination date.
The market value is collateral in the form of motor vehicles to mitigate the credit risk defined as the estimated amount for which the asset could be sold in arising from automobile lending.
The Group values new vehicles at an arms length transaction by a willing seller to a willing buyer.
In cost and used ones at the relevant average trade-in value.
Ireland and, to a lesser extent, the UK, a lack of market data has made estimating the value of property difficult and so causes the Receivables - These are amounts owed to the Groups Group to use a range of other types of information to value such counterparties by their own customers.
The Group values them after collateral, including expert judgement and indices.
For further taking into account the quality of its counterpartys receivable information, regarding the Groups commercial real estate portfolio management processes and excluding any that are past due.
All collateral is assessed case-by-case to ensure that it will retain its Residential property - The Group takes collateral in the form of value independently of the provider.
The Group monitors the value of the residential property to mitigate the credit risk arising from mortgages collateral and, if there is a shortfall, will seek additional collateral.
The Group values residential property during the loan underwriting process by either appraising properties individually or using statistically valid models.
The Group updates residential property values quarterly using the relevant residential property index, namely the Halifax Quarterly Regional House Price Index in the UK, the Case-Shiller Home Price Index in the US, the Central Statistics Office Residential Property Price Index in the ROI, and the Nationwide House Price Index in Northern Ireland.
The table below analyses commercial real estate Core and Non-Core lending by loan-to-value ratio, which represents loan value before provisions relative to the value of the property financed.
Total portfolio average LTV is quoted net of loans with minimal security given that the anticipated recovery rate is less than 10%.
Provisions are marked against these loans where required to reflect the relevant asset quality and recovery profile.
2 Other non-performing loans of 2.3 billion 2012 - 2.0 billion: 2011 - 2.5 billion were subject to the Groups standard provisioning policies.
Other performing loans of 5.4 billion 2012 - 6.6 billion: 2011 - 9.2 billion included general corporate loans, typically unsecured, to commercial real estate companies, and major UK house builders in addition to facilities supported by guarantees.
The credit quality of these exposures was consistent with that of the performing portfolio overall.
4 2012 LTV revised to reflect refinement to security value reporting implemented during 2013.
2013 2012 2011 Corporate risk elements in lending and potential problem loans Loans Provisions Loans Provisions Loans Provisions excluding commercial real estate m m m m m m Secured 7,686 4,347 9,936 4,704 7,782 3,369 Unsecured 2,496 1,685 1,894 1,170 2,712 1,836 239 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Credit risk continued Risk mitigation continued The table below shows LTVs for the Groups residential mortgage portfolio split between performing AQ1-AQ9 and non-performing AQ10, with the average LTV calculated on a weighted value basis.
Loan balances are shown as at the end of the year whereas property values are calculated using property index movements since the last formal valuation.
2 Where no indexed LTV is held.
3 Average LTV weighted by value is calculated using the LTV on each individual mortgage and applying a weighting based on the value of each mortgage.
Counterparty credit risk The Group mitigates counterparty credit risk arising from both derivatives Collateral generally takes the form of cash.
In the case of repurchase and repurchase agreements through the use of netting, collateral and the agreements, collateral usually takes the form of debt and equity securities use of market standard documentation.
at the outset but if the value of collateral falls relative to that of the obligation, the Group may require additional collateral in the form of cash The Group mitigates counterparty credit risk by netting amounts it owes variation margin.
Industry standard documentation, such as master to a counterparty against amounts the same counterparty owes to it, in repurchase agreements and credit support annexes accompanied by accordance with relevant regulatory and internal policies.
It generally legal opinion, is used for financial collateral taken as part of trading does so only if it has a netting agreement in place as well as a legal activities.
opinion to the effect that the agreement is enforceable in the relevant jurisdictions.
The Group limits counterparty credit exposures by setting limits which take into account the potential adverse movement of a counterparty credit exposure after adjusting the impact of netting and collateral where applicable.
2013 2012 2011 Mitigation of counterparty credit risk bn bn bn Reverse repurchase agreements 76.5 104.8 100.9 Securities received as collateral 1 76.4 104.7 98.9 Derivative assets gross exposure 288.0 441.9 530.1 Counterparty netting 242.8 373.9 441.6 Cash collateral held 24.3 34.1 37.2 Securities received as collateral 6.0 5.6 5.3 Note: 1 In accordance with normal market practice, at 31 December 2013 63.7 billion 2012 - 100.7 billion: 2011 - 95.4 billion had been resold or re-pledged as collateral for the Group's own transactions.
241 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Credit risk continued Other appropriate corrective action is taken when circumstances emerge Early problem identification and problem debt management that may affect the customers ability to service its debt.
Such Wholesale circumstances include deteriorating trading performance, imminent Early problem identification breach of covenant, challenging macroeconomic conditions, a late Each division has defined early warning indicators EWIs to identify payment or the expectation of a missed payment.
customers experiencing financial difficulty, and to increase monitoring if needed.
EWIs may be internal, such as a customers bank account For all Watch Red cases, the division is required to consult with GRG on activity, or external, such as a publicly-listed customers share price.
If whether the relationship should be transferred to GRG for more EWIs show a customer is experiencing potential or actual difficulty, information on GRG, refer to below.
Watch Red customers that continue divisional credit officers may decide to place it on the Watchlist.
to be managed by the divisions tend to be those requiring subject matter expertise that is available in the divisions rather than in GRG.
Watchlist There are three Watch classifications - Amber, Red and Black - reflecting At 31 December 2013, exposures to customers reported as Watchlist progressively deteriorating conditions.
Watch Amber customers are Red and managed in the divisions totalled 3.2 billion 2012 - 4.3 performing customers who show early signs of potential financial billion.
difficulty, or have other characteristics that warrant closer monitoring.
Watch Red customers are performing customers who show signs of Remediation strategies available in the divisions include granting a declining creditworthiness which requires active management usually by customer various types of concessions.
Any decision to approve a the Global Restructuring Group GRG.
Watch Black customers include concession will be a function of the divisions specific country and sector risk elements in lending and potential problem loans.
appetite, the key metrics of the customer, the market environment and the loan structure and security.
For further information, refer to the Once on the Watchlist, customers are subject to heightened scrutiny.
Depending on the severity of the financial difficulty and the size of the exposure, the customer relationship strategy is reassessed by credit Other potential outcomes of the relationship review are to: take the officers, by specialist units in divisions or by GRG.
In more material customer off the Watchlist: offer additional lending and continue cases, a forum of experienced credit, portfolio management and remedial monitoring: transfer the relationship to GRG if appropriate: or exit the management specialists in the divisions or GRG may reassess the relationship altogether.
In accordance with Group-wide policies, a number of mandatory actions are taken, including a review of the customers credit grade and facility and security documentation.
The following table shows a sector breakdown of CRA of Watch Red customers under GRG management: 2013 2012 2011 Core Non-Core Total Core Non-Core Total Core Non-Core Total Watch Red CRA by current exposure m m m m m m m m m Property 3,178 1,841 5,019 5,605 4,377 9,982 6,561 6,011 12,572 Transport 1,791 456 2,247 2,238 478 2,716 1,159 2,252 3,411 Retail and leisure 1,092 237 1,329 1,542 432 1,974 1,528 669 2,197 Services 955 40 995 870 84 954 808 141 949 Other 2,312 804 3,116 3,087 1,177 4,264 1,952 916 2,868 Total 9,328 3,378 12,706 13,342 6,548 19,890 12,008 9,989 21,997 The decrease in Watch Red cases was driven predominantly by a lower The factor common to all customers managed by GRG is that the flow of cases into GRG, repayments and movement of cases into Watch Groups exposure is outside risk appetite.
Customers transferred to GRG Black.
The overall value of customers in default has however reduced typically show symptoms of significant financial difficulty, such as cash during the year.
For further information regarding the asset quality of the flow pressures, or show evidence that the management team has limited Group's portfolio refer to the Asset quality section on page 236. experience of managing a business in difficulty.
In addition, a customer may be transferred to GRG if the Group is not provided with sufficient or Global Restructuring Group reliable information on which to make decisions.
GRG manages the Groups wholesale problem debt portfolio in cases where its exposure to the customer exceeds 1 million.
In addition, GRG GRG relationship managers use their skill, experience and judgement to provides a specialist credit function, the Strategy Management Unit, for support customers through these difficulties while seeking to minimise distressed bilateral lending where the exposure is between 250,000 and losses to protect the Groups capital.
The primary function of GRG is to restore customers to an acceptable credit condition and minimise losses to the Group.
unaudited 242 Business review Risk and balance sheet management When the relationship is transferred, GRG conducts a detailed commensurate with the risk that it is required to take.
The increased assessment of the viability of the business as well as the ability of return for the increased risk can be structured flexibly to take into account management to deal with the causes of financial difficulty.
Following the customers circumstances, for example increased margin on a cash GRGs initial file assessment and, if appropriate, wider due diligence with or payment in kind basis, and or deferred return instruments.
input from independent experts sector experts, accountants and The contractual margin may be amended to bolster the customers daysurveyors, various options are presented to the customer.
A strategy is to-day liquidity to help sustain the customers business as a going then agreed with the customer for dealing with the distressed loan.
This would normally be a short-term solution.
As set out above, the Group would seek to obtain a return commensurate to the risk that it The objective is to find a mutually acceptable solution, including is required to take and this can be structured in the same ways set out repayment, refinancing or transfer to another bank if that is the above.
Once a solution is found, management of the loans may be transferred back to the performing divisions.
If the Loans may be forborne more than once, generally where a temporary business is not viable and a turnaround is not possible, insolvency may concession has been granted and circumstances warrant another be an option.
temporary or permanent revision of the loans terms.
All customers are assigned a PD and related facilities a LGD.
These are re-assessed prior Wholesale forbearance to finalising any forbearance arrangement in light of the loans amended Definition terms.
Where forbearance is no longer viable, the Group will consider Forbearance takes place when a concession is made on the contractual other options such as the enforcement of security and or insolvency terms of a loan in response to a customers financial difficulties.
Concessions granted where there is no evidence of financial difficulty, or The ultimate outcome of a forbearance strategy is unknown at the time of where any changes to terms and conditions are within the Groups usual execution.
It is highly dependent on the cooperation of the borrower and risk appetite for a customer new to the Group, or reflect improving credit the continued existence of a viable business.
The following are generally market conditions for the customer, are not considered forbearance.
considered to be options of last resort: Enforcement of security or otherwise taking control of assets - A number of options are available to the Group.
Such actions are tailored Where the Group holds collateral or other security interest and is to the customers individual circumstances.
The aim of such actions is to entitled to enforce its rights, it may enforce its security or otherwise restore the customer to financial health and to minimise risk to the Group.
take ownership or control of the assets.
The Groups preferred To ensure that forbearance is appropriate for the needs and financial strategy is to consider other possible options prior to exercising profile of the customer, the Group applies minimum standards when these rights.
assessing, recording, monitoring and reporting forbearance.
Insolvency - Where there is no suitable forbearance option or the Types of wholesale forbearance business is no longer regarded as sustainable, insolvency will be Wholesale forbearance may involve the following types of concessions: considered.
Insolvency may be the only option that ensures that the assets of the business are properly and efficiently distributed to Payment concessions and loan rescheduling, including extensions relevant creditors.
in contractual maturity, may be granted to improve the customers liquidity.
Concessions may also be granted on the expectation that The data presented in the tables below include loans forborne during the customers liquidity will recover when market conditions improve.
2011, 2012 and 2013 which individually exceeded thresholds set at In addition, they may be granted if the customer will benefit from divisional level.
The Group continues to refine its reporting processes for access to alternative sources of liquidity, such as an issue of equity forborne loans and, as a result, in 2013, thresholds were reduced to capital.
These options are commonly used in commercial real estate range from nil to 3 million.
During 2011 and 2012, these thresholds transactions, particularly where a shortage of market liquidity rules ranged from nil to 10 million.
The proportion of the Watch and GRG out immediate refinancing and makes short-term collateral sales population covered by these thresholds has changed over time as the unattractive.
Debt may be forgiven, or exchanged for equity, where the As part of the Groups ongoing review of forbearance reporting, the customers business or economic environment means that it cannot amounts shown as Completed forbearance relating to 2012 and 2013 meet obligations and where other forms of forbearance are unlikely now include loans granted covenant concessions only.
Debt forgiveness is commonly used for stressed disclosed by way of a note in 2012.
While the Group considers these leveraged finance transactions.
These are typically structured on the types of concessions qualitatively different from other forms of basis of projected cash flows from operational activities, rather than forbearance, they constitute a significant proportion of wholesale underlying tangible asset values.
Provided that the underlying forbearance and were therefore included.
business model, strategy and debt level are viable, maintaining the business as a going concern is the preferred option, rather than realising the value of the underlying assets.
A temporary covenant waiver, a recalibration of covenants or a covenant amendment may be used to cure a potential or actual covenant breach.
In return for this relief, the Group would seek to obtain a return 243 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Credit risk continued Early problem identification and problem debt management continued The table below shows the value of loans excluding loans where the Group has initiated recovery procedures where forbearance was completed during the year, by sector and types.
2013 2012 2011 Provision Provision Provision Wholesale forbearance during Performing Non-performing coverage 1 Performing Non-performing Coverage 1 Performing Non-performing Coverage 1 the year by sector m m % m m % m m % Property 1,759 4,802 60 3,365 3,899 16 2,166 3,215 25 Transport 1,016 229 34 1,174 130 23 771 670 10 Retail and leisure 455 390 37 732 113 34 331 433 10 Services 405 234 77 324 51 30 177 94 3 Other 670 510 27 1,575 550 40 773 731 47 4,305 6,165 55 7,170 4,743 20 4,218 5,143 25 Forbearance arrangements The table below analyses the incidence of the main types of wholesale forbearance arrangements by loan value.
2013 2012 2011 Wholesale forbearance during the year by arrangement type 2 % % % Payment concessions and loan rescheduling 78 49 92 Other 3 31 14 9 Covenant-only concessions 16 30 Forgiveness of all or part of the outstanding debt 9 21 33 Variation in margin 2 6 12 Notes: 1 Provision coverage reflects impairment provision as a percentage of non-performing loans.
2 The total exceeds 100% as an individual case can involve more than one type of arrangement.
3 The main types of other concessions include formal standstill agreements and release of security.
At 31 December 2013, loans totalling 9.4 billion 2012 - 13.7 Key points billion were granted credit approval for forbearance but where such A number of refinements have been made in 2013 to the reporting of forbearance had not yet been formally documented and which were wholesale forbearance as explained below: not being managed in accordance with an agreed forbearance Change in reporting thresholds from 10 million to 3 million, strategy.
These loans are referred to as in process and are not increased forbearance reported by 1.7 billion.
included in the tables above.
84% of these were non-performing loans, with an associated provision coverage of 44%, and 16% were During ongoing portfolio reviews, a number of facilities totalling performing loans.
The principal types of arrangements offered 2.3 billion were identified which were being managed in included payment concessions and loan rescheduling, covenant accordance with an agreed forbearance strategy but where the concessions, forgiveness of all or part of the outstanding debt and forbearance had not been formally documented.
These have variations in margin.
been included in the tables above, which has led to an increase in completed forbearance for 2013 and a corresponding decrease Loans forborne during 2012 and 2013 and outstanding at 31 in loans which are in process for the purpose of forbearance in December 2013 totalled 18.4 billion, of which 8.0 billion related to process loans are explained below.
Covenant only forbearance of 1.7 billion 2012 - 3.5 billion has Core bank customers were granted forbearance by GRG on loan been included.
facilities totalling 6.9 billion during 2012 and 2013, which equates to 23% of loans managed by GRG excluding loans to customers Year-on-year analysis of forborne loans may be skewed by managed by recovery units.
Of these loans, 15% by value had been individual material cases during a given year.
This is particularly returned to performing portfolios managed within the originating relevant when comparing the value of forbearance completed in the divisions by 31 December 2013.
There are also loans that are not property and transport sectors in 2013 with previous years.
forborne which have been returned from GRG to performing portfolios managed within the originating divisions.
79% by value of the performing Core loans granted forbearance during 2012 remained performing as at 31 December 2013.
Provision coverage for forborne loans increased during the year.
This was primarily the result of provisions in Ulster Bank, specifically in the property sector, and driven by the Groups RCR strategy.
For further information regarding Ulster Bank refer to the Ulster Bank Group Core and Non-Core section on pages 265 to 267. unaudited 244 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Retail Mortgage portfolios Collections Forbearance options include, but are not limited to, payment Collections functions in each of the Groups retail businesses provide concessions, capitalisations of arrears, term extensions and temporary support and assistance to customers who are experiencing difficulties in conversions to interest only.
meeting their obligations to the Group.
Such customers may miss a payment on their loan or borrow more than their agreed limit, or contact Payment concessions - A temporary reduction in, or elimination of, the Group themselves asking for help.
Dedicated support teams are also the periodic usually monthly loan repayment is agreed with the in place to identify and help customers who have not yet missed a customer.
At the end of the concessionary period, forborne principal payment but may be facing financial difficulty.
and accrued interest outstanding is scheduled for repayment over an agreed period.
Ulster Bank and RBS Citizens also offer payment The collections function may use a range of tools to initiate contact with concessions in the form of discounted interest rates that involve the the customer, establish the cause of their financial difficulty and support forgiveness of some interest further details below.
In the process, they may consider granting the customer forbearance.
Capitalisation of arrears - The customer repays the arrears over the remaining term of the mortgage and returns to an up-to-date Additionally, in the UK and Ireland, support is provided to customers with position.
unsecured loans who establish a repayment plan with the Group through a debt advice agency or a self-help tool.
Such breathing space Term extensions - The maturity date of the loan is extended.
suspends collections activity for a 30-day period to allow time for the repayment plan to be put in place.
Arrears continue to accrue for Interest only conversions - The loan converts from principal and customer loans granted breathing space.
interest repayment to interest only repayment on a temporary basis Ulster Bank only.
If collections strategies are unsuccessful the relationship is transferred to the recoveries team.
For further details on recoveries, refer to page 250.
In UK Retail, interest only conversions have not been used to support customers in financial difficulty since 2009, and from 2012 have only Retail forbearance been permitted on a very exceptional basis for residential mortgage Definition customers who are up to date on payments.
As a result interest only Forbearance takes place when a concession is made on the contractual loans with permanent changes to terms are historical stock.
In Ulster terms of a loan in response to a customer's financial difficulties.
In UK Bank, interest only conversions are offered to customers under financial Retail and Ulster Bank, a broader definition of forbearance is used that stress and solely on a temporary basis.
includes mortgages where a customer has made a change to contractual terms, when their payments status is up-to-date and they are not In response to the economic difficulties in the Republic of Ireland, Ulster necessarily evidencing signs of financial difficulty.
Forbearance is granted Bank has developed additional forbearance options.
These payment on a permanent, or temporary, basis following an assessment of the concessions support customers over an extended period of time and customer's individual circumstances and ability to pay.
For UK Retail and include instances where some interest is forgiven by granting interest rate Ulster Bank, the disclosure covers changes in contractual terms dating discounts for a 3-5 year period.
back to January 2008 and early 2009 respectively.
Similarly RBS Citizens participates in the US government mandated Identification Home Affordable Modification Program as well as its own proprietary Customers who contact the bank directly because of financial difficulties, programme.
Both feature a combination of term extensions, or who are already in payment arrears, may be granted forbearance.
In capitalisations of arrears, interest rate reductions and conversions from the course of assisting customers, more than one forbearance treatment interest only to amortising.
These tend to be permanent changes to may be granted.
In order to qualify for either of the programmes, customers must meet government-specified or internal criteria designed Types of retail forbearance to evidence financial difficulty but demonstrate a willingness to pay.
Forbearance is granted principally to customers with mortgages and less extensively to customers with unsecured loans.
245 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Credit risk continued Early problem identification and problem debt management continued Unsecured portfolios Monitoring of forbearance For unsecured portfolios in UK Retail and Ulster Bank, forbearance Forbearance loans may be performing or non-performing.
The granting of entails reduced or deferred payments.
Arrangements to facilitate the forbearance does not change the delinquency status of the loan unless repayment of overdraft excesses or loan arrears can be agreed the arrangement involves a capitalisation of all existing arrears of dependent on affordability.
Where repayment arrangements are not principal and interest, in which case the loan becomes up-to-date.
affordable debt consolidation loans can be provided to customers in collections.
Loans granted forbearance are included in the non-performing book: when 90 days past due: or if the forbearance arrangement is a payment In RBS Citizens, granting of forbearance is predominantly restricted to concession that involves a reduction in contractually required cash flows short-term 1-3 months loan extensions to alleviate the financial burden i. e. the forgiveness of interest.
Such loans are classified as impaired.
In caused by temporary hardship.
Such extensions are offered only if a RBS Citizens, all loans subject to forbearance are included in the noncustomer has demonstrated a capacity and willingness to pay.
number and frequency of extensions granted to a customer are limited.
Additionally, for loans secured by vehicles and credit cards, RBS Citizens There are instances when loans subject to forbearance are transferred may offer temporary interest rate modifications, but no principal from the non-performing book to the performing book.
In UK Retail, when reductions.
Forbearance may also be offered to student loan customers arrears are capitalised, a loan is transferred to the performing book once consistent with the policy guidelines of the US Office of the Comptroller of the borrower has met the revised payment terms for at least six months the Currency.
and is expected to continue to do so.
In addition, a small portfolio of loans past due 90 days are managed by UK Retails collections function.
For unsecured portfolios in UK Retail, 121 million of balances 1% Loans in this portfolio may also be transferred to the performing book if of the total unsecured balances were subject to forbearance at the customer makes payments that reduce arrears below 90 days.
In Ulster Bank, if a customer makes payments that reduce loan arrears For unsecured portfolios in Ulster Bank, 16 million 3.8% by value below 90 days, the loan is transferred to the performing book.
In addition, of the population was subject to forbearance at 31 December 2013. where a customer meets the original payment terms for six months and is expected to continue to do so, capitalisation may be agreed.
In these For unsecured portfolios in RBS Citizens, 135 million 1.7% of the cases the loan is also transferred to the performing book.
unsecured balances were subject to forbearance at 2013 year end includes auto and recreational vehicle marine portfolios and Mortgages granted forbearance are reviewed regularly to ensure that excludes small business loans as these are included as part of customers are meeting the agreed terms.
Key metrics have been wholesale reporting.
developed to record the proportion of loans that fail to meet the agreed terms over time, as well as the proportion of loans that return to performing with no arrears.
Retail forbearance loans can be modified more than once.
Twelve month default rates are calculated for all mortgage forbearance types.
In 2013, the average twelve month default rates were 8% for UK Retail, 18% for Ulster Bank and 13% for RBS Citizens.
246 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Arrears status and provisions The mortgage arrears information for retail accounts in forbearance and related provision are shown in the tables below.
2 Forbearance in UK Retail and Ulster Bank capture all instances where a change has been made to the contractual payment terms including those where the customer is up-to-date on payments and there is no obvious evidence of financial difficulty.
3 Includes the current stock position of forbearance deals agreed since early 2008 for UK Retail and early 2009 for Ulster Bank.
247 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Credit risk continued Early problem identification and problem debt management continued Forbearance arrangements The incidence of the main types of retail forbearance on the balance sheet are analysed below.
UK Retail Ulster Bank RBS Citizens Wealth Total 1 2013 m m m m m Interest only conversions - temporary and permanent 2 1,784 512 2,296 Term extensions - capital repayment and interest only 2,478 325 35 29 2,867 Payment concessions 3 241 1,567 246 12 2,066 Capitalisation of arrears 907 494 1,401 Other 366 92 86 544 5,776 2,898 373 127 9,174 2012 Interest only conversions - temporary and permanent 1,220 924 6 2,150 Term extensions - capital repayment and interest only 2,271 183 27 2,481 Payment concessions 3 215 762 339 9 1,325 Capitalisation of arrears 932 119 1,051 Other 452 3 455 5,090 1,988 339 45 7,462 2011 Interest only conversions - temporary and permanent 1,269 795 3 2,067 Term extensions - capital repayment and interest only 1,805 58 97 1,960 Payment concessions 198 876 180 1,254 Capitalisation of arrears 864 101 965 Other 517 23 540 4,653 1,830 180 123 6,786 Notes: 1 As an individual case can include more than one type of arrangement, the analysis in the table on forbearance arrangements exceeds the total value of cases subject to forbearance.
2 The year-on-year increase for UK Retail was driven by an extension of the reporting definition to include legacy conversions to interest only repayment in cases where customers were previously on a combination of repayment types.
3 Includes 365 million of Ulster Bank loans 2012 - 10 million and 62 million of RBS Citizens loans 2012 - 31 million where an interest rate discount has been agreed resulting in a reduction of contractual cash flows through forgiveness of interest.
The table below shows forbearance agreed during the year analysed between performing and non-performing.
UK Retail Ulster Bank RBS Citizens Wealth Total 2013 m m m m m Performing forbearance 1,332 2,223 41 3,596 Non-performing forbearance 186 1,213 101 22 1,522 Total forbearance 1,2 1,518 3,436 101 63 5,118 2012 Performing forbearance 1,809 2,111 88 18 4,026 Non-performing forbearance 184 1,009 71 2 1,266 Total forbearance 1,2 1,993 3,120 159 20 5,292 Notes: 1 An individual case can include more than one type of arrangement.
2 Includes all arrangements agreed during the year new customers and renewals including those deals that have expired at year end.
248 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Key points UK Retail Ulster Bank At 31 December 2013, forbearance balances where the forbearance At 31 December 2013, 14.6% of total mortgage assets 2.8 billion treatment was provided in the last 24 months amounted to 2.0 were subject to a forbearance arrangement agreed since early billion.
This represented a 14% reduction in the year.
This reflected Ulster Banks proactive strategies to contact The flow of new forbearance of 380 million in the fourth quarter of customers in financial difficulty to offer assistance.
2013 continued on a downward trend compared with an average of 456 million in the preceding four quarters.
The full year flow for Although the forbearance stock increased by 40% during the year, 2013 was 1.7 billion, a 15% reduction on the 2012 flow.
the number of customers approaching Ulster Bank for assistance for the first time remained broadly stable.
This can be attributed to more 5.5% of total mortgage assets 5.4 billion were subject to a mortgages being put on to longer-term arrangements, and therefore forbearance arrangement agreed since January 2008.
represented an increase from 4.9% on 2012 4.8 billion.
The rise was driven by an extension of the reporting definition to include The majority of forbearance arrangements were less than 90 days in legacy conversions to interest only repayment in cases where arrears 72%.
customers were previously on a combination of repayment types.
Excluding this change in definition, forbearance stock remained The mix of forbearance treatments in Ulster Bank changed with an stable.
A total of 28% of forbearance loans were subject to a permanent arrangement at 31 December Approximately 84% of forbearance loans 2012 - 83% were up to 2013 2012 - 15%.
Capitalisations represented 17% and term date with payments compared with approximately 97% of assets not extensions represented 11% of the forbearance portfolio at 31 subject to forbearance activity.
December 2013, increasing from 6% and 9% respectively.
The majority 90% of UK Retail forbearance is permanent in nature The remaining forbearance loans were temporary concessions term extensions, capitalisation of arrears, historic conversions to accounting for 72%.
Short to medium-term concessions are offered interest only.
Temporary forbearance comprises payment for periods of three months to five years and incorporate different concessions such as reduced or deferred payments with such levels of repayment based on the customers ability to pay.
arrangements typically agreed for a period of three to six months.
Temporary interest only arrangements decreased during 2013 to The most frequently occurring forbearance types were term 18% of forbearance loans at 31 December 2013 2012 - 46%.
This extensions 43% of forbearance loans at 31 December 2013, reflected Ulster Banks strategy to transition customers in financial interest only conversions 31% and capitalisations of arrears 16%.
The growth of interest only stock reflected the extended definition referred to above.
The underlying level of transfers was negligible Payment concessions represented the remaining 54%, comprising: and the remaining stock was the result of legacy policy.
Conversions deals where payments amortised the outstanding balance 41% : a to interest only have only been permitted on a very exceptional basis diminishing portfolio of deals that negatively amortised 10% : and since the fourth quarter of 2012 and have not been permitted for payment holidays 3%.
customers in financial difficulty since 2009.
The impairment provision cover on forbearance loans remained The impairment provision cover on forbearance loans remained significantly higher than that on assets not subject to forbearance.
significantly higher than that on assets not subject to forbearance.
249 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Credit risk continued Early problem identification and problem debt management continued Recoveries Collectively assessed provisions Once a loan has been identified as impaired it is managed by divisional Provisions on impaired credits below an agreed threshold are assessed recoveries functions.
Their goal is to collect the total outstanding and on a portfolio basis, reflecting the homogeneous nature of the assets.
reduce the Groups loss by maximising cash recovery while treating The Group segments wholesale and retail portfolios according to product customers fairly.
Where an acceptable repayment arrangement cannot type, such as credit cards, personal loans and mortgages.
The approach be agreed with the customer, litigation may be considered.
In UK Retail taken to assess impaired assets in collections differs from the and Northern Ireland, no repossession procedures are initiated until at approach taken to assess those in recoveries refer to page 245 for least six months following the emergence of arrears.
In the Republic of further details on collections and refer to above for recoveries.
Ireland, new regulations prohibit taking legal action for an extended period.
Additionally, certain forbearance options are made available to Provisions are determined based on a quantitative review of the relevant customers managed by the recoveries function.
They take account of the level of arrears, the value of any security, and historical and projected cash recovery trends over the Group impairment loss provisioning recovery period.
The provisions also incorporate any adjustments that Impaired definition may be deemed appropriate given current economic conditions.
Such A financial asset is impaired if there is objective evidence that an event or adjustments may be determined based on a review of the latest cash events since initial recognition of the asset, has adversely affected the collections profile and operational processes used in managing amount or timing of future cash flows from it.
The loss is measured as the exposures.
difference between the carrying value of the loan and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the loans original effective Latent loss provisions interest rate.
In the performing portfolio, latent loss provisions are held against losses incurred but not identified before the balance sheet date.
Latent loss For both wholesale and retail exposures, days-past-due measures are provisions reflect PDs and LGDs as well as emergence periods.
The typically used to identify evidence of impairment.
In both corporate and emergence period is defined as the period between the occurrence of the retail portfolios, a period of 90 days past due is used.
In sovereign impairment event and a loan being identified and reported as impaired.
portfolios, the period used is 180 days past due.
Other factors are considered including: the borrowers financial condition: a forbearance Emergence periods are estimated at a portfolio level and reflect the event: a loan restructuring: the probability of bankruptcy: or any evidence portfolio product characteristics such as coupon period and repayment of diminished cash flows.
terms, and the duration of the administrative process required to report and identify an impaired loan as such.
Emergence periods vary across Provisioning methodology different portfolios from 2 to 225 days.
They are based on actual If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been incurred, experience within the particular portfolio and are reviewed regularly.
the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows The Groups retail businesses segment their performing loan books into discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The homogeneous portfolios such as mortgages, credit cards or unsecured current net realisable value of the collateral will be taken into account in loans, to reflect their different credit characteristics.
Latent provisions are determining the need for a provision.
No impairment provision is computed by applying portfolio level LGDs, PDs and emergence periods.
recognised in cases where amounts due are expected to be settled in full The wholesale calculation is based on similar principles but there is no on realisation of the security.
The Group uses one of the following three segmentation into portfolios.
PDs and LGDs are calculated on an different methods to assess the amount of provision required: individual: individual basis.
Refer to pages 299 to 317 for analysis of impaired loans, related Individually assessed provisions provisions and impairments.
Loans and securities above a defined threshold deemed to be individually significant are assessed on a case-by-case basis.
Assessments of future cash flows take into account the impact of any guarantees or collateral held.
Projections of cash flow receipts are based on the Groups judgement and facts available at the time.
Projected cash flows are reviewed on subsequent assessment dates as new information becomes available.
250 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Impact of forbearance on provisioning There is no reassessment of the PD at the time forbearance is granted Wholesale but the loan will be the subject to the latent provisioning methodology Forbearance may result in the value of the outstanding debt exceeding described above.
Non-performing loans are subject to a collectively the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
This may result in assessed provision methodology.
the recognition of an impairment loss or a write-off.
In Ulster Bank performing loans are subject to a latent loss provision but form a separate risk pool for the period of forbearance.
The performance Provisions for forborne wholesale loans are assessed in accordance with of forbearance arrangements is analysed and breakage a single missed the Groups normal provisioning policies refer to Group impairment loss payment rates computed.
The higher of the breakage rate and the provisioning on page 250.
The customers financial position and modelled PD for this separate risk pool is used when calculating the prospects as well as the likely effect of the forbearance, including any latent provision.
Furthermore, for this portfolio the latent provision concessions granted, are considered in order to establish whether an incorporates an extended emergence period.
Once such loans are no impairment provision is required.
Individual impairment assessments for longer separately identified, the use of account level PDs refreshed wholesale loans are reassessed in the light of any revisions to the loan's monthly in the latent provision methodology captures the underlying terms.
credit risk without a material time lag.
There is no reassessment of the PD at the time forbearance is granted but the loan will be the subject to All wholesale customers are assigned a PD and related facilities an LGD.
the latent provisioning methodology described above.
Non-performing These are re-assessed prior to finalising any forbearance arrangement in loans are subject to a collectively assessed provision methodology.
light of the loans amended terms and any revised grading incorporated in However, loans not 90 days past due that are subject to forbearance the calculation of the impairment loss provisions for the Groups arrangements involving a reduction in contractually required cash flows wholesale exposures.
i. e. the forgiveness of interest and where arrears have not been capitalised are classified as non-performing.
They form a separate risk For performing counterparties, credit metrics are an integral part of the pool for the period of forbearance and the related loan loss provision is latent provision methodology and therefore the impact of covenant computed using Ulster Banks latent loss provision methodology.
concessions will be reflected in the latent provision.
For non-performing loans, covenant concessions will be considered in the overall provision Non-performing loans are grouped into homogeneous portfolios sharing adequacy for these loans.
similar credit characteristics according to the asset type.
Further characteristics such as LTVs, arrears status and default vintage are also In the case of non-performing loans that are forborne, the loan considered when assessing recoverable amount and calculating the impairment provision assessment almost invariably takes place prior to related provision requirement.
While non-performing forbearance retail forbearance being granted.
The quantum of the loan impairment loans do not form a separate risk pool, the LGD models used to calculate provision may change once the terms of the forbearance are known, the collective impairment provision are affected by agreements made resulting in an additional provision charge or a release of the provision in under forbearance arrangements.
the period the forbearance is granted.
In RBS Citizens, retail loans subject to forbearance are segmented from the rest of the non-forborne population and assessed individually for The transfer of wholesale loans subject to forbearance from impaired to impairment loss throughout their lives until the loans are repaid or fully performing status follows assessment by relationship managers in GRG.
The amount of recorded impairment depends on whether the When no further losses are anticipated and the customer is expected to loan is collateral dependent.
If the loans are considered collateral meet the loans revised terms, any provision is written-off and the balance dependent, the excess of the loans carrying amount over the fair value of of the loan returned to performing status.
the collateral is the impairment amount.
If the loan is not deemed collateral dependent, the excess of the loans carrying amount over the Retail present value of expected future cash flows is the impairment amount.
Provisions are assessed in accordance with the Groups provisioning Any confirmed losses are charged off immediately.
policies refer to Group impairment loss provisioning on page 250.
Write-offs Impairment provisions in respect of loans subject to forbearance are The Group normally writes-off loans when it has exhausted all its evaluated as follows: collection strategies and has no realistic chance of recovering the money it is owed.
Refer to pages 382 and 383 for further information on the In UK Retail performing loans are subject to a latent loss provision but Groups write-off policies and practices.
form a separate risk pool for 24 months.
The higher of the observed default rates and PDs are used in the latent provisioning calculations for these loans to ensure that appropriate provision is held.
Furthermore, for these portfolios the latent provision incorporates extended emergence periods.
Once such loans are no longer separately identified, the use of account level PDs refreshed monthly in the latent provision methodology captures the underlying credit risk without a material time lag.
251 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Credit risk continued Key loan portfolios Commercial real estate The commercial real estate sector comprised exposures to entities involved in the development of, or investment in, commercial and residential properties including house builders.
The analysis of lending utilisations below is gross of impairment provisions and excludes rate risk management and contingent obligations.
This portfolio, which totalled 1.4 billion at 31 December 2013 2012 - 1.4 billion: 2011 - 1.3 billion continued to perform in line with expectations and required minimal provision.
2 ROI: Republic of Ireland: NI: Northern Ireland: RoW: Rest of World.
Key points In line with Group strategy, the overall gross lending exposure to The UK portfolio was focused on London and South East England.
commercial real estate CRE fell by 10.5 billion, or 17%, during Approximately 47% of the portfolio was held in these areas at 31 2013 to 52.6 billion.
Gross lending exposure is now almost half of December 2013 2012 - 43%.
the exposure of four years ago.
The overall mix of geography, subsector and investment and development remained broadly unchanged.
A significant proportion of the decrease was in Non-Core and was due to repayments, asset sales and write-offs.
The Non-Core portfolio totalled 19.3 billion 37% of the portfolio at 31 December 2013 2012 - 26.4 billion or 42% of the portfolio.
2 Predominantly comprises overdrafts and multi-option facilities for which there is no single maturity date.
unaudited 254 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Key points The overall maturity profile remained relatively unchanged during The majority of Ulster Banks commercial real estate portfolio was 2013. categorised as under one year, owing to the high level of nonperforming assets in the portfolio.
billion 2012 - 28.1 billion was managed within the Groups The high proportion of the portfolio in AQ10 was driven by exposure standard credit processes.
Another 2.9 billion 2012 - 5.1 billion in Non-Core Ulster Bank and International Banking and Core received varying degrees of heightened credit management under Ulster Bank.
The decrease in the portfolio managed in the Groups Watchlist process occurred mainly in Non-Core and UK Corporate.
The remaining 24.7 billion 2012 - 29.8 billion was managed in GRG and included Watchlist and non-performing exposures.
unaudited 255 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Credit risk continued Key loan portfolios continued The table below analyses commercial real estate Core and Non-Core lending by loan-to-value ratio, which represents loan value before provisions relative to the value of the property financed.
Key points The reductions in the higher LTV buckets for the performing book Interest payable on outstanding loans was covered 3.1x and 1.6x were offset by the growth in these buckets in the non-performing within UK Corporate and International Banking, respectively, at 31 book.
Ulster Bank Group accounted for the majority of this December 2013 2012 - 3.0x and 1.5x respectively.
The US Retail deterioration and has addressed this through an increase in & Commercial portfolio is managed on the basis of debt service provisions refer to the section on RCR.
Ulster Bank Group's coverage, which includes principal amortisation as well as interest provision as a percentage of REIL stood at 76% at 31 December payable.
The average debt service coverage was 1.5x at 31 2013 2012 - 57%.
Valuations continued to be affected by difficult, December 2013 2012 - 1.3x.
As a number of different approaches although improving, market conditions, as well as refinements to the are used across the Group and across geographies to calculate Groups estimation approach.
interest coverage ratios, they may not be comparable for different portfolio types and legal entities.
Credit quality metrics relating to commercial real estate lending were as follows: Group Non-Core 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Lending gross 52.6bn 63.0bn 74.8bn 19.3bn 26.4bn 34.3bn Of which REIL 20.1bn 22.1bn 22.9bn 14.3bn 17.1bn 18.8bn Provisions 13.2bn 10.1bn 9.5bn 10.6bn 8.3bn 8.2bn REIL as a % of gross loans to customers 38.2% 35.1% 30.6% 74.1% 64.8% 54.8% Provisions as a % of REIL 66% 46% 41% 74% 49% 44% Note: 1 Excludes property related lending to customers in other sectors managed by Real Estate Finance.
Key point CRE lending net of impairment provisions decreased by 13.5 billion or 26% in the year to 39.4 billion in part due to the increased impairment provisions recorded in the fourth quarter of 2013 in Ulster Bank Non-Core, as part of RCR creation and related strategy.
Provision coverage on CRE REIL was 66% compared to 46% at the end of 2012.
Ulster Bank is a significant contributor to Non-Core commercial real estate lending.
For further information refer to the section on Ulster Bank Group Core and Non-Core.
unaudited 257 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Credit risk continued Key loan portfolios continued Residential mortgages The table below analyses the mortgage portfolios and includes both Core and Non-Core.
Total gross mortgage lending comprises 35% of the Groups gross lending of 418 billion.
The table below shows LTVs for the Groups residential mortgage portfolio split between performing AQ1-AQ9 and non-performing AQ10, with the average LTV calculated on a weighted value basis.
Key points UK Retail The UK Retail mortgage portfolio was 99.3 billion at 31 December All new mortgage business is subject to a comprehensive 2013, an increase of 0.3% from 31 December 2012.
This includes: i an affordability test which includes a included 9.1 billion 2012 - 7.9 billion of residential buy-to-let stressed interest rate that is higher than the customer pay rate: ii lending.
credit scoring: iii a maximum loan-to-value of 90% with the exception of the UK Government backed schemes Help-to-Buy As at 31 December 2013, approximately 43% of the portfolio from the fourth quarter of 2013, New Buy and My New Home consisted of fixed rate, 5% a combination of fixed and variable rates products where lending of up to 95% is provided: and iv a range of and the remainder were variable rate mortgages including those on policy rules that restrict the availability of credit to borrowers with managed rates.
The interest only proportion of the total portfolio higher risk characteristics, for example highly indebted and or was 26%.
adverse payment behaviour on previous borrowings.
Gross new mortgage lending amounted to 14.4 billion and the The arrears rate defined as more than three payments in arrears, average LTV by volume was 62.7% compared to 61.3% at excluding repossessions and shortfalls post property sale, fell to 31 December 2012.
The average LTV calculated by weighted LTV 1.3% 2012 - 1.5%.
The number of properties repossessed in 2013 of lending was 66.6% 2012 - 65.2%.
Arrears rates remained sensitive to economic developments and benefited from the low Based on the Halifax Price Index at September 2013, the portfoliointerest rate environment.
average indexed LTV by volume was 54.1% 2012 - 58.1% and 62.0% by weighted value of debt outstanding 2012 - 66.8%.
The The impairment charge for mortgage loans was 30 million for 2013 ratio of total outstanding balances to total indexed property compared to 92 million in 2012, reflecting a lower level of defaults valuations was 45.1% 2012 - 48.5%.
and reduced loss rates as valuations improved on properties held as security on defaulted debt.
unaudited 259 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Credit risk continued Key loan portfolios continued Ulster Bank RBS Citizens Ulster Banks residential mortgage portfolio was 19.0 billion at 31 RBS Citizens residential real estate portfolio was 19.6 billion at 31 December 2013, with 88% in the Republic of Ireland and 12% in December 2013 2012 - 21.5 billion.
The Core business comprised Northern Ireland.
At constant exchange rates, the portfolio 91% of the portfolio.
The real estate portfolio consisted of 5.9 billion decreased 2.5% from 31 December 2012 as a result of amortisation 5.6 billion Core vs. 0.3 billion Non-Core of first lien residential and limited growth due to low market demand.
mortgages 1% in second lien position and 13.5 billion 12.0 billion Core vs. 1.5 billion Non-Core of home equity loans and lines The assets included 2.2 billion 12% of residential buy-to-let loans.
Home equity Core consisted of 49% in first The interest rate product mix was approximately 68% on tracker rate lien position while Non-Core consisted of 95% in second lien products, 23% on variable rate products and 9% on fixed rate.
Interest only represented 11% of the total portfolio.
RBS Citizens continued to focus on its footprint states of New The average individual LTV on new originations was 73% in 2013, England, Mid Atlantic and Mid West regions.
At 31 December 2013, 2012 - 74% : the volume of new business remained very low.
The the portfolio consisted of 16.4 billion 84% of the total portfolio maximum LTV available to Ulster Bank customers was 90% with the within footprint.
exception of a specific Northern Ireland scheme which permits LTVs of up to 95% although Ulster Banks exposure is capped at 85% Of the total real estate portfolio of 1.8 billion in Non-Core, the LTV.
serviced-by-others SBO element was the largest component 76%.
The SBO book decreased from 1.8 billion at 31 December The portfolio average indexed LTV fell 4% during 2013 and reflected 2012 to 1.4 billion at 31 December 2013 and was closed to new positive house price index trends over the last 12 months.
purchases in the third quarter of 2007.
The arrears rate of the SBO portfolio decreased from 1.9% at 31 December 2012 to 1.6% at 31 Refer to the Ulster Bank Group Core and Non-Core section on December 2013 reflecting portfolio liquidation as well as more pages 265 to 267 for commentary on mortgage REIL and effective account servicing and collections.
The charge-off rate also impairments.
continued to decrease 4.4% annualised at the fourth quarter of 2013 compared to 7.4% in 2012.
The weighted average LTV of the portfolio decreased from 75% at 31 December 2012 to 67% at 31 December 2013, driven by increases in the Case-Shiller Home Price Index from the third quarter of 2012 to the fourth quarter of 2013.
The weighted average LTV of the portfolio, excluding SBO, was 64%.
unaudited 260 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Personal lending The Groups personal lending portfolio includes credit cards, unsecured loans, auto finance and overdrafts.
The majority of personal lending exposures exist in the UK and the US.
Impairment charge as a proportion of average loans and receivables is shown in the following table.
2013 2012 2011 Impairment Impairment Impairment charge as a % charge as a % charge as a % Average of average Average of average Average of average loans and loans and loans and loans and loans and loans and receivables receivables receivables receivables receivables receivables m % m % m % UK Retail cards 1 5,626 2.0 5,624 2.3 5,675 3.0 UK Retail loans 1 5,761 1.6 6,513 2.5 7,755 2.8 RBS Citizens cards 2 903 3.9 916 3.8 936 5.1 RBS Citizens auto loans 2 5,080 0.1 5,289 0.1 4,856 0.2 Notes: 1 The ratio for UK Retail assets refers to the impairment charge for the year.
2 The ratio for RBS Citizens refers to the impairment charge in the year, net of recoveries realised in the year.
Key points UK Retail RBS Citizens The UK personal lending portfolio comprised credit cards, RBS Citizens credit card portfolio is comprised of good quality unsecured loans and overdrafts, and totalled 13.8 billion at 31 consumer loans originated in-footprint through the RBS Citizens December 2013 2012 - 14.7 billion.
branch network and totalled 945 million at 31 December 2013 2012 - 948 million.
The product portfolio credit quality continued The impairment charge on unsecured lending was 291 million for to improve with credit scores for new originations throughout the year, down 34% on 2012.
The decline reflected the effect of prior 2013 higher than the portfolio average.
Auto loans originated through dealer networks totalled 5.5 billion at The Group continued to perform favourably relative to industry 31 December 2013 2012 - 5.4 billion.
The portfolio maintained benchmarks for cards arrears.
New origination credit and collateral characteristics throughout 2013 remained equally strong as a result of the short balance life and the resulting low collateral risk.
unaudited 261 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Credit risk continued Key loan portfolios continued Interest only retail loans The Groups interest only retail loan portfolios include interest only mortgage lending in UK Retail, Ulster Bank, Wealth and RBS Citizens portfolios of home equity lines of credit HELOC and interest only mortgage portfolios.
2013 2012 Mortgages Other loans Mortgages Other loans 1 bn bn bn bn Variable rate 34.8 1.3 38.5 1.5 Fixed rate 8.0 0.1 8.1 0.1 Interest only loans 42.8 1.4 46.6 1.6 Mixed repayment 2 8.3 8.8 Total 51.1 1.4 55.4 1.6 Notes: 1 The other loans category for 2012 has been restated to exclude non-personal interest only loans within Wealth division.
2 Mortgages with partial interest only and partial capital repayments.
The Group reduced its exposure to interest only mortgages.
UK Retail The Group recognises impairment provisions in respect of loans in its ceased offering interest only mortgages to residential owner occupied interest only portfolios UK Retail - 2 years: RBS Citizens - 1 year that customers with effect from 1 December 2012.
Interest only repayment are approaching their contractual maturity based on historical analysis remains an option for buy-to-let mortgages.
Ulster Bank withdrew interest and customer behaviour.
These impairment provisions are refreshed as only as a standard mortgage offering for new lending in the Republic of new trends and data become available.
Ireland in 2010 and in Northern Ireland in 2012.
Interest only mortgages are now granted on a very limited basis to high net worth customers or as The tables below analyse the Groups interest only mortgage and HELOC part of its forbearance programme.
RBS Citizens offers its customers portfolios excluding mixed repayment mortgages by type, by contractual interest only mortgages and conventional HELOC that enter an year of maturity and by originating division.
amortising repayment period after the interest only period.
Wealth offers interest only mortgages to its high net worth customers.
2 Includes 2.3 billion 2012 - 2.2 billion of repayment mortgages that have been granted interest only concessions forbearance.
3 Maturity date relates to the expiry of the interest only period.
unaudited 262 Business review Risk and balance sheet management 2013 2012 Bullet principal Conversion Proportion of Bullet principal Conversion Proportion of repayment to amortising Total mortgage lending repayment to amortising Total mortgage lending bn bn bn % bn bn bn % UK Retail 1 25.4 25.4 25.6 28.1 28.1 28.4 Ulster Bank 0.7 1.4 2.1 11.0 1.4 1.8 3.2 16.7 RBS Citizens 0.4 8.9 9.3 47.5 0.5 9.0 9.5 44.1 Wealth 6.0 6.0 69.0 5.7 0.1 5.8 66.0 Total 32.5 10.3 42.8 35.7 10.9 46.6 Note: 1 UK Retail also has exposure of 7.7 billion to customers who have a combination of repayment types, capital repayments and interest only.
UK Retail Ulster Bank also offers temporary interest only periods to customers as UK Retails interest only mortgages require full principal repayment part of its forbearance programme.
An interest only period of up to two bullet at the time of maturity.
Typically such loans have remaining terms years is permitted after which the customer enters an amortising of between 15 and 20 years.
Customers are reminded of the need to repayment period following further assessment of the customers have an adequate repayment vehicle in place during the mortgage term.
The affordability assessment conducted at the end of the forbearance period takes into consideration the repayment of the arrears Of the bullet loans that matured in the six months to 30 June 2013, 53% that have accumulated based on original terms during the forbearance had been fully repaid by 31 December 2013.
The unpaid balance totalled period.
The customers delinquency status does not deteriorate further 51 million, 96% of which continued to meet agreed payment while forbearance repayments are maintained.
Term extensions in arrangements including balances that have been restructured on a respect of existing interest only mortgages are offered only under a capital and interest basis within eight months of the contract date: forbearance arrangement.
customers are allowed eight months leeway for their investment plan to mature and cashed in to repay the mortgage.
Of the 51 million unpaid RBS Citizens balance, 56% of the loans had an indexed LTV of 70% or less with only RBS Citizens has a book of interest only bullet repayment HELOC loans 14% above 90%.
Customers may be offered a short extension to the term 0.4 billion at 31 December 2013 for which repayment of principal is of an interest only mortgage or a conversion of an interest only mortgage due at maturity, and an interest only portfolio that comprises loans that to one featuring repayment of both capital and interest, subject to convert to amortising after an interest only period that is typically 10 years affordability and characteristics such as the customers income and 8.9 billion at December 2013 of which 8.0 billion are HELOCs.
The majority of term extensions in UK Retail majority of the bullet loans are due to mature between 2014 and 2015.
Of are classified as forbearance.
the bullet loans that matured in the six months to 30 June 2013, 50% had fully repaid or are current as of 31 December 2013.
The residual Ulster Bank balances modified, delinquent, and charged-off made up 21 million.
Ulster Banks interest only mortgages require full principal repayment For those loans that convert to amortising, the typical uplift in payments is bullet at the time of maturity: or payment of both capital and interest currently 210% average uplift calculated at 132 per month.
from the end of the interest only period, typically seven years, so that Delinquency rates have shown a modest increase in the over 30 days customers meet their contractual repayment obligations.
customers, contact strategies are in place to remind them of the need to repay principal at the end of the mortgage term.
Of the bullet mortgages that matured in the six months to 30 June 2013 1.2 million, 20% had fully repaid by 31 December 2013 leaving residual balances of 0.9 million, 78% of which were meeting the terms of a revised repayment schedule.
Of the amortising loans that matured in the six months to 30 June 2013 65 million, 69% were either fully repaid or meeting the terms of a revised repayment schedule.
unaudited 263 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Credit risk continued Key loan portfolios continued The tables below analyse the Groups retail mortgage and HELOC portfolios between interest only mortgages excluding mixed repayment mortgages and other mortgage loans.
The mortgage portfolio improved notably in 2013, challenging economic climate in Ireland, with impairments remaining accounting for 235 million 13% of the total 2013 impairment charge elevated in the wholesale bank as a result of limited liquidity in the 2012 - 646 million: 2011 - 570 million due to lower debt flows driven economy which continues to depress the property market and domestic by improved collections performance and stabilising residential property spending.
Additionally, in the fourth quarter of 2013 the Group announced prices.
a recovery strategy for loans transferring to RCR.
This resulted in a significant increase in provisions as the move from a through the cycle Non-Core strategy to a 3 year deleverage, reduced expected realisations.
The impairment charge for the year was 3,019 million 2012 - 976 million: 2011 - 2,333 million, with the commercial real estate sector The impairment charge of 4,793 million for 2013 2012 - 2,340 million: accounting for 2,674 million 89% of the total 2013 impairment charge, 2011 - 3,717 million was driven by a combination of new defaulting again reflecting the RCR strategy.
customers and higher provisions on existing defaulted cases due primarily to the above mentioned RCR strategy.
Provisions as a The table below analyses Ulster Bank Groups loans, REIL, impairments percentage of risk elements in lending increased to 76% in 2013, from and related credit metrics by sector.
57% in 2012, predominantly as a result of this change in strategy, combined with the deterioration in the value of the Non-Core commercial real estate development portfolio.
The geographic split of development portfolio 95%.
the total Ulster Bank Group commercial real estate portfolio remained similar to 2012 with 64% 2012 - 63% in the Republic of Of the total corporate impairment charge recorded during the Ireland, 26% 2012 - 26% in Northern Ireland, 10% 2012 - 11% in second half of 2013 of 3.9 billion, 3.4 billion related to all loans the UK excluding Northern Ireland and the balance 0.1% in Rest that will be transferred to RCR, of which 2.9 billion related to of World primarily Europe.
commercial real estate loans and 0.5 billion related to corporate loans.
Exposure to the sector exposures to its problem management framework, where various fell during 2013 by 1.0 billion, reflecting Ulster Banks continuing measures may be agreed to assist customers whose loans are strategy to reduce concentration risk in this sector.
performing, but who are experiencing temporary financial difficulties.
The outlook for the property sector remains challenging.
While there may be some signs of stabilisation in main urban centres, the outlook continues to be negative for secondary property locations on the island of Ireland.
Residential mortgages Mortgage lending portfolio analysis by country of location of the underlying security is set out below.
2013 2012 2011 m m m ROI 16,779 16,873 17,767 NI 2,255 2,289 2,253 19,034 19,162 20,020 unaudited 267 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Balance sheet analysis 269 Financial assets 269 - Exposure summary 271 - Sector and geographic concentration 279 - Asset quality 284 Debt securities 293 Equity shares 296 Derivatives 299 REIL, provisions and AFS reserves 268 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Balance sheet analysis Credit risk assets analysed on pages 231 to 237 are reported internally to senior management.
However, they exclude certain exposures, primarily securities and reverse repurchase agreements and take account of legal netting agreements, that provide a right of legal set-off but do not meet the criteria for offset in IFRS.
The tables that follow are therefore provided to supplement the credit risk assets analysis and other analysis to reconcile to the balance sheet.
All the disclosures in this section are audited except those relating to RCR on pages 299 and 300.
Financial assets Exposure summary The table below analyses the Groups financial assets exposures, both gross and net of offset arrangements as well as credit mitigation and enhancement.
Collateral Exposure post credit Gross IFRS Carrying Balance sheet Real estate and other Credit mitigation and exposure offset 1 value 2 offset 3 Cash 4 Securities 5 residential 6 commercial 6 Enhancement 7 enhancement 2013 bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Cash and balances at central banks 82.7 82.7 82.7 Reverse repos 117.2 40.7 76.5 11.4 65.0 0.1 Lending 423.6 3.4 420.2 32.3 1.6 2.7 145.4 60.0 3.9 174.3 Debt securities 113.6 113.6 1.3 112.3 Equity shares 8.8 8.8 8.8 Derivatives 553.7 265.7 288.0 242.8 24.3 6.0 7.3 7.6 Settlement balances 8.2 2.7 5.5 0.3 5.2 Total 1,307.8 312.5 995.3 286.8 25.9 73.7 145.4 60.0 12.5 391.0 Short positions 28.0 28.0 28.0 Net of short positions 1,279.8 312.5 967.3 286.8 25.9 73.7 145.4 60.0 12.5 363.0 Notes: 1 Relates to offset arrangements that comply with IFRS criteria and transactions cleared through and novated to central clearing houses, primarily London Clearing House and US Government Securities Clearing Corporation.
2 Carrying value on the balance sheet represents the exposure to credit risk by class of financial instrument.
3 Balance sheet offset reflects the amounts by which the Groups credit risk is reduced through master netting and cash management pooling arrangements.
Derivative master netting agreements include cash pledged with counterparties in respect of net derivative liability positions and are included in lending in the table above.
4 Includes cash collateral pledged by counterparties based on daily mark-to-market movements of net derivative positions with the counterparty.
5 Securities collateral represent the fair value of securities received from counterparties, mainly relating to reverse repo transactions as part of netting arrangements.
6 Property valuations are limited to the loan value and reflect the application of haircuts and capping in line with regulatory rules to indexed valuations.
Commercial collateral includes shipping vessels and plant and equipment collateral.
7 Credit enhancement comprises credit derivatives bought protection and guarantees and reflect notional amounts less fair value and notional amounts respectively.
269 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Balance sheet analysis continued Financial assets continued Gross IFRS Carrying Balance sheet Exposure exposure offset 1 value offset 2 post offset 2012 bn bn bn bn bn Cash and balances at central banks 79.3 79.3 79.3 Reverse repos 143.2 38.4 104.8 17.4 87.4 Lending 464.7 1.5 463.2 34.9 428.3 Debt securities 164.6 164.6 164.6 Equity shares 15.2 15.2 15.2 Derivatives 3 815.4 373.5 441.9 408.0 33.9 Settlement balances 8.1 2.4 5.7 1.8 3.9 Other financial assets 1.1 1.1 1.1 Total 1,691.6 415.8 1,275.8 462.1 813.7 Short positions 27.6 27.6 27.6 Net of short positions 1,664.0 415.8 1,248.2 462.1 786.1 2011 Cash and balances at central banks 79.4 79.4 79.4 Reverse repos 138.4 37.6 100.8 15.2 85.6 Lending 517.5 517.5 41.2 476.3 Debt securities 209.1 209.1 209.1 Equity shares 15.2 15.2 15.2 Derivatives 3 1,074.6 544.5 530.1 478.9 51.2 Settlement balances 9.2 1.4 7.8 2.2 5.6 Other financial assets 1.3 1.3 1.3 Total 2,044.7 583.5 1,461.2 537.5 923.7 Short positions 41.0 41.0 41.0 Net of short positions 2,003.7 583.5 1,420.2 537.5 882.7 Notes: 1 Relates to offset arrangements that comply with IFRS criteria and transactions cleared through and novated to central clearing houses, primarily London Clearing House and US Government Securities Clearing Corporation.
2 This reflects the amounts by which the Groups credit risk is reduced through master netting and cash management pooling arrangements.
3 Includes cash collateral received against derivative assets of 24.3 billion 2012 - 34.1 billion: 2011 - 37.2 billion.
270 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Sector and geographic concentration The following tables analyse financial assets by sector and geography.
Geographical regions are based on the location of the lending or issuer.
Key points Financial asset exposures after offset decreased by 129.4 billion or The banking sector continues to be one of the largest in the Groups 16% to 684.3 billion in the year, reflecting the Groups focus on portfolio.
The sector is well diversified geographically and by reducing its funded balance sheet primarily through ongoing sales in exposure with derivative exposures being largely collateralised.
The Non-Core and downsizing of Markets.
sector continues to be tightly controlled through the combination of the single name concentration framework, bespoke credit policies Reductions across securities debt - 51.0 billion: equity - 6.4 and country limits.
Exposures to the banking sector decreased by billion, lending 43.1 billion reverse repos 28.4 billion and 14.8 billion during the year with decreases across, reverse repos derivatives 153.9 billion were partially offset by higher cash lending, securities and derivatives being partially offset by increased holdings 3.4 billion.
Conditions in the financial markets and the cash holdings with central banks.
Groups continued focus on risk appetite and sector concentrations resulted in the trends seen.
Exposure to other financial institutions comprising traded and nontraded products is spread across a wide range of financial Exposures to central and local government decreased by 29.5 companies including insurance, securitisation vehicles, financial billion principally in debt securities.
This was driven by Markets fideintermediaries including broker dealers and central counterparties, risking its balance sheet, management of the Group Treasury financial guarantors - monolines and credit derivative product liquidity portfolio as well as some risk reduction in respect of companies - and funds comprising unleveraged, hedge and Eurozone exposures.
The size of the portfolio decreased by 44.6 billion.
Entities in this sector remain vulnerable to market shocks or Exposure to financial institutions was 59.4 billion lower across contagion from the banking sector.
reverse repos, lending, securities and derivatives.
This was driven by economy-wide subdued activity being partially offset marginally The Groups exposure to property and construction sector by increased cash holdings.
decreased by 13.1 billion, principally in commercial real estate lending.
The majority of the Groups Core property exposure is within UK Corporate 72%.
Retail, wholesale and repairs sector decreased by 4.2 billion, reflecting the Groups strategy to re-balance the Core portfolios towards stronger customers in the sector while at the same time continuing to reduce the Non-Core book.
272 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Transport and storage exposure decreased by 1.1 billion.
The Within lending: sector includes asset-backed exposures to ocean-going vessels.
UK Retail unsecured lending decreased by 0.6 billion, partially Conditions remain poor across the major shipping market segments offset by an increase of 0.2 billion in mortgage lending.
in 2013 with low charter rates and vessel values.
At 31 December UK Corporate lending decreased by 4.5 billion, as business 2013, 1.1 billion 2012 - 0.7 billion of loans were included in risk demand for credit remains weak.
elements in lending with an associated provision of 0.4 billion and Non-Core continued to make significant progress on its impairment charge of 0.4 billion for 2013. balance sheet strategy by reducing lending by 19.8 billion across all sectors, principally property and construction, where commercial real estate lending decreased by 7.1 billion.
In addition, the Group holds collateral in respect of individual loans and advances to banks and customers.
This collateral includes mortgages over property both personal and commercial : charges over business assets such as plant, inventories and trade debtors: and guarantees of lending from parties other than the borrower.
The Group obtains collateral in the form of securities in reverse repurchase agreements.
Cash and securities are received as collateral in respect of derivative transactions.
2 Loans made by the Group's consolidated conduits to asset owning companies are included within financial institutions - other.
278 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Asset quality The asset quality analysis presented below is based on the Groups Asset quality band Probability of default range internal asset quality ratings which have ranges for the probability of AQ1 0% - 0.034% default, as set out below.
Customers are assigned credit grades, based AQ2 0.034% - 0.048% on various credit grading models that reflect the key drivers of default for AQ3 0.048% - 0.095% the customer type.
All credit grades across the Group map to both a AQ4 0.095% - 0.381% Group level asset quality scale, used for external financial reporting, and AQ5 0.381% - 1.076% a master grading scale for wholesale exposures used for internal AQ6 1.076% - 2.153% management reporting across portfolios.
Debt securities are analysed by AQ7 2.153% - 6.089% external ratings and are therefore excluded from the following tables.
2 Excludes balances in relation to Direct Line Group loans to banks: 2012 - 2,036 million: 2011 - 2,579 million and loans to customers: 2012 - 881 million: 2011 - 893 million.
3 Exposures are allocated to asset quality bands on the basis of statistically driven models which produce an estimate of default rate.
The variables included in the models vary by product and geography.
For portfolios secured on residential property these models typically include measures of delinquency and loan-to-value as well as other differentiating characteristics such as bureau score, product features or associated account performance information.
Key points Underlying the balance sheet reduction in the year the overall asset Core customer lending in AQ1-AQ3 increased to 22% from 18% at quality in the upper bands AQ1-AQ5 remained broadly similar.
31 December 2012 as recalibration of the UK Retail models using updated data trends from the last three years resulted in 9.8 billion Within cash and balances at central banks there has been an moving from AQ5 to higher bands.
In addition, mid corporate model increase in AQ1 of 2.3 billion due to additional funds deposited with updates in UK Corporate and data quality improvements in Wealth the Bank of England and the Federal Reserve.
Additionally, also led to improving trends.
increases of 1.1 billion in AQ3 and AQ4 are due to deposits with other central banks as part of the Groups overall liquidity Core past due loans to customers decreased 1.2 billion, with a management.
reduction in Ulster Bank 0.8 billion and US Retail and Commercial 1.2 billion being offset by increases in UK Retail 1.2 billion as Reverse repo balances decreased 28.4 billion due to reduced balances transferred from the impaired book.
However, AQ2 and AQ4-AQ7 have increased 7.2 billion in bank reverse repurchase agreements as a Impairment provisions increased 4.0 billion, mainly due to RCR and small number of counterparties moved bands, in addition to the related change in strategy 4.5 billion partly offset by a decrease in implementation of a strategy to develop relationships with newer, UK Retail 0.5 billion.
Derivatives decreased across all asset quality bands reflecting risk reduction within Markets and upwards shifts in major interest rate yield curves.
283 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Balance sheet analysis continued Debt securities IFRS measurement classification and issuer The table below analyses debt securities by issuer and IFRS measurement classifications.
US central and local government includes US federal agencies: financial institutions includes US government sponsored agencies and securitisation entities, the latter principally relating to asset-backed securities ABS.
Holdings in bank capital management in Markets.
The decrease in other government issuances fell by 2.9 billion due to maturities and amortisations.
bonds primarily comprised reductions in Japanese, French, Belgian The decrease in securities issued by other financial institutions of and Canadian bonds, partially offset by increases in Italian, German 6.6 billion primarily related to ABS 1.6 billion collateralised loan and Spanish bonds.
Short positions in US government bonds obligations in Non-Core and 3.4 billion residential mortgage-backed decreased, reflecting reduced holdings and short positions in securities, due to disposals, maturities and buy backs by issuers.
German government bonds increased reflecting focus on reduction This was partially offset by a build up of securities 0.9 billion, in net exposure.
primarily US agency securities in US Retail & Commercial.
The reduction includes 7.2 billion related to Direct Line Group, not included at 31 December 2013 as it is now an associate.
AFS gross unrealised gains and losses The UK government net decrease of 0.9 billion reflects exposure reductions.
The US government decrease of 0.7 billion reflects exposure reduction as well as the impact of expectations of tapering of the liquidity programme by the US Federal Reserve.
The reductions in bank, other financial institutions and ABS reflected maturities, disposals and market movements.
Ratings The table below analyses debt securities by issuer and external ratings.
Ratings are based on the lowest of Standard and Poors, Moodys and Fitch.
reflected the Groups reduced holding of debt securities.
Non-investment grade and unrated debt securities accounted for 5% of the portfolio in 2013.
287 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Balance sheet analysis continued Residential mortgage-backed securities Debt securities continued RMBS are securities that represent an interest in a portfolio of residential Asset-backed securities mortgages.
Repayments made on the underlying mortgages are used to Introduction make payments to holders of the RMBS.
The risk of the RMBS will vary The Group structures, originates, distributes and trades debt in the form primarily depending on the quality and geographic region in which the of loan, bond and derivative instruments in all major currencies and debt underlying mortgage assets are located and the credit enhancement of capital markets in North America, Western Europe, Asia and major the securitisation structure.
Several tranches of notes are issued, each emerging markets.
The carrying value of the Group's debt securities is secured against the same portfolio of mortgages, but providing differing detailed below.
levels of seniority to match the risk appetite of investors.
The most junior or equity notes will suffer early capital and interest losses experienced The Groups credit market activities gave rise to risk concentrations in by the referenced mortgage collateral, with each more senior note asset-backed securities ABS.
The Group has exposures to ABS, which benefiting from the protection provided by the subordinated notes below.
are predominantly debt securities, but can also be held in derivative form.
Additional credit enhancements may be provided to the holder of senior ABS have an interest in an underlying pool of referenced assets.
The RMBS notes, including provided by monoline insurers.
risks and rewards of the referenced pool are passed onto investors by the issue of securities with varying seniority by a special purpose entity.
The main categories of mortgages that serve as collateral to RMBS held by the Group are set out below and described in the Glossary on pages Debt securities include residential mortgage-backed securities RMBS, 549 to 556.
The US market has more established definitions of differing commercial mortgage-backed securities CMBS, collateralised debt underlying mortgage quality and these are used as the basis for the obligations CDOs, collateralised loan obligations CLOs and other Group's RMBS categorisation.
In many cases, the risk associated with these assets is hedged by credit derivatives.
The counterparties to some of these hedge The Group RMBS classifications, including prime, non-conforming and transactions are monoline insurers.
sub-prime, reflect the characteristics of the underlying mortgage portfolios.
RMBS are classified as prime RMBS where the loans have The following tables summarise the gross and net exposures and low default risk and are made to borrowers with good credit records and carrying values of these securities by the location of the underlying reliable payment histories and there is full documentation.
Nonassets at 31 December 2013, 2012 and 2011 and by IFRS measurement conforming RMBS include US Alt-A RMBS together with RMBS, in classification of held-for-trading HFT, designated at fair value DFV, jurisdictions other than the US, where the underlying mortgages are not available-for-sale AFS and loans and receivables LAR.
Gross classified as either prime or sub-prime.
Classification of RMBS as subexposures represent the principal amounts relating to ABS.
Government prime or Alt-A is based on Fair Isaac Corporation scores FICO, level of sponsored or similar RMBS comprises securities that are: a guaranteed documentation and loan-to-value ratios of the underlying mortgage loans.
or effectively guaranteed by the US government, by way of its support for US RMBS are classified as sub-prime if the mortgage portfolio comprises US federal agencies and government sponsored enterprises or b loans with FICO scores between 500 and 650 with full or limited guaranteed by the Dutch government.
Net exposures represent the documentation.
Mortgages in Alt-A RMBS portfolios have FICO scores of carrying value after taking account of protection purchased from monoline 640 to 720, limited documentation and an original LTV of 70% to 100%.
insurers and other counterparties, but exclude the effect of counterparty In other jurisdictions, RMBS are classified as sub-prime if the mortgage credit valuation adjustments.
The hedge provides credit protection of both portfolio comprises loans with one or more high risk characteristics such principal and interest cash flows in the event of default by the as: unreliable or poor payment histories: high loan-to-value ratios: high counterparty.
The value of this protection is based on the underlying debt-to-income ratio: the loan is not secured on the borrower's primary instrument being protected.
residence: or a history of delinquencies or late payments on the loan.
292 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Equity shares The table below analyses holdings of equity shares for eurozone countries and other countries with balances of more than 100 million by country, issuer and measurement classification.
The HFT positions in Markets, primarily in run-off and recovery businesses, are used mainly for economic hedging of debt issuances and equity derivatives.
The AFS portfolios include capital stock in the Federal Home Loan Bank a government sponsored entity, included in other financial institutions and the Federal Reserve Bank, which together amounted to 0.6 billion 2012 - 0.7 billion that US Retail & Commercial are required to hold.
The remaining AFS balances are individually small holdings in unlisted companies, mainly acquired through debt for equity transactions in GRG.
295 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Balance sheet analysis continued Derivatives Summary The table below analyses the Groups derivatives by type of contract.
Master netting arrangements and collateral shown below do not result in a net presentation in the Groups balance sheet under IFRS.
Trades are margined daily hence carrying values were insignificant: assets - 69 million 2012 - 41 million: 2011 - 119 million and liabilities - 299 million 2012 - 255 million: 2011 - 428 million.
2 Interest rate notional includes 22,563 billion 2012 - 15,864 billion: 2011 - 16,377 billion in respect of contracts with central clearing counterparties to the extent related assets and liabilities are offset.
296 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Key points Net exposure decreased by 47% liabilities decreased by 38% Sales and reduction in trade volumes contributed to reduction in reflecting increased interest rate yields and continued use of trade equity contracts.
compression cycles, partially offset by increased trade volumes.
Netting and collateral agreements with some financial institutions Interest rate contracts fair value decreased due to significant bank and non-bank in certain jurisdictions, or due to other legal upward shifts in major yield curves as the US Federal Reserve reasons, are not deemed to be enforceable and are therefore announced tapering of quantitative easing from early 2014. reported as uncollateralised above.
Continued participation in trade compression cycles contributed to a further reduction in exposures.
71% of the uncollateralised derivatives related to corporates rated AQ1-AQ3.
Exchange rate contracts fair value decreased due to strengthening of sterling against the US dollar and decrease in trade volumes.
Corporate uncollateralised derivatives, principally all in Markets, relate to large corporates who may have netting arrangements in The decrease in credit derivatives notional and fair values was place but do not have collateral posting capability.
A significant driven by increased use of trade compression cycles and novation of proportion of the Groups credit valuation adjustments and funding certain trades in Markets in line with the Groups risk reduction valuation adjustments relate to those uncollateralised derivatives.
strategy, primarily in the first half of the year.
Tightening of credit spreads also contributed to the decrease in fair value.
The table below analyses the Groups derivative notional and fair values by trading and settlement method.
Notional Asset Liability Traded over the counter Traded on Not settled Traded on Traded Traded on Traded recognised Settled by central by central recognised over the recognised over the exchanges counterparties counterparties Total exchanges counter exchanges counter 2013 bn bn bn bn m m m m Interest rate 2,203 22,565 10,821 35,589 65 217,976 79 208,619 Exchange rate 94 2 4,459 4,555 61,923 65,749 Credit 30 223 253 5,306 5,388 Equity and commodity 1 80 81 4 2,766 220 5,472 2012 Interest rate 2,388 15,864 15,231 33,483 13 363,441 55 345,510 Exchange rate 108 4,590 4,698 63,067 70,481 Credit 553 553 11,005 10,353 Equity and commodity 1 110 111 28 4,364 200 7,741 2011 Interest rate 2,653 16,377 19,697 38,727 3 422,550 5 406,779 Exchange rate 110 4,372 4,482 74,526 81,022 Credit 1,054 1,054 26,836 26,743 Equity and commodity 2 121 123 115 6,027 423 9,137 297 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Balance sheet analysis continued Derivatives continued Credit derivatives The Group trades credit derivatives as part of its client-led business and to mitigate credit risk.
The Groups credit derivative exposures relating to proprietary trading are minimal.
The table below analyses the Groups bought and sold protection.
298 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Monoline insurers The table below summarises the Group's monoline exposures.
Fair value: Notional: reference Credit protected protected Gross valuation Net Counterparty and assets assets exposure adjustment Hedges exposure credit risk RWAs m m m m m m bn 2013 1,646 1,454 192 59 133 0.8 2012 4,582 4,021 561 192 12 357 1.2 2011 8,562 6,674 1,888 1,198 71 619 3.6 Credit derivative product companies CDPCs The table below summarises the Group's exposures to CDPCs, all of which are in Non-Core.
Fair value: Notional: reference Credit protected protected Gross valuation Net Counterparty and assets assets exposure adjustment exposure credit risk RWAs m m m m m bn 2013 18,827 18,729 98 40 58 0.7 2012 20,989 20,435 554 314 240 2.0 2011 24,504 22,608 1,896 1,034 862 8.4 REIL, provisions and AFS reserves Risk elements in lending REIL comprises impaired loans and accruing loans past due 90 days or more as to principal or interest.
Impaired loans are all loans including loans subject to forbearance for which an impairment provision has been established: for collectively assessed loans, impairment loss provisions are not allocated to individual loans and the entire portfolio is included in impaired loans.
Accruing loans past due 90 days or more comprise loans past due 90 days where no impairment loss is expected and those awaiting individual assessment.
A latent provision is established for the latter.
Divisional analysis The tables below analyse gross loans and advances excluding reverse repos and the related credit metrics by division.
The Core 64% from 52% at December 2012 while the REIL as a percentage of charge increased 26% 0.8 billion to 3.8 billion and the Non-Core total loans increased to 9.4% from 9.1% at 31 December 2012. charge increased by 100% 2.3 billion to 4.6 billion.
4.5 billion of the impairment increase was in relation to the creation of RCR and UK Retail REIL continued to decrease due to the write-off of aged the related strategy, 1.4 billion in Core and 3.1 billion in Non-Core.
debt and the transfer of up-to-date mortgages to potential problem The underlying provision charge decreased 1.4 billion mainly in UK loans.
Provision coverage remained broadly stable at 59%.
Retail 0.2 billion, Ulster Bank residential mortgages 0.4 billion and Non-Core 0.8 billion, largely due to run down and lower REIL in UK Corporate increased 14% mainly driven by individual single name charges in Non-Core.
cases in the commercial real estate and shipping portfolios as credit conditions remained difficult in these sectors.
The impact of the RCR REIL decreased by 1.7 billion to 39.4 billion during the year related strategy resulted in a 0.4 billion provision increase in Q4 mainly in Non-Core 2.4 billion and UK Retail 1.0 billion offset 2013. by increases in UK Corporate 0.8 billion and Ulster Bank 0.9 billion.
REIL reductions in Non-Core primarily related to repayments Ulster Bank REIL at 8.5 billion increased by 12% compared with 31 and write-offs in UK corporate and International Banking donated December 2012.
The increase in REIL was largely in relation to portfolios.
commercial real estate investment loans.
RCR and related provisioning in 2013 contributed 0.9 billion to the Core Ulster Bank unaudited provision and has resulted in the provision coverage increasing from 52% to 64% in the year and in the fourth quarter.
300 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Sector and geographical regional analyses: Group The tables below analyse gross loans and advances to banks and customers excluding reverse repos and related credit metrics by sector and geography by location of lending office for the Group, Core and Non-Core.
309 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Balance sheet analysis continued REIL, provisions and AFS reserves continued Provisions and AFS reserves methodology The Group reviews its portfolios of available-for-sale financial assets for The Group's consumer portfolios, which consist of high volume, small evidence of impairment, which includes: default or delinquency in interest value credits, have highly efficient largely automated processes for or principal payments: significant financial difficulty of the issuer or identifying problem credits and very short timescales, typically three obligor: and it becoming probable that the issuer will enter bankruptcy or months, before resolution or adoption of various recovery methods.
However, the disappearance of an active Corporate portfolios consist of higher value, lower volume credits, which market because an entitys financial instruments are no longer publicly tend to be structured to meet individual customer requirements.
traded is not evidence of impairment.
Furthermore, a downgrade of an entitys credit rating is not, of itself, evidence of impairment, although it Provisions are assessed on a case by case basis by experienced may be evidence of impairment when considered with other available specialists with input from professional valuers and accountants.
A decline in the fair value of a financial asset below its cost Group operates a transparent provisions governance framework, setting or amortised cost is not necessarily evidence of impairment.
Determining thresholds to trigger enhanced oversight and challenge.
whether objective evidence of impairment exists requires the exercise of management judgement.
The unrecognised losses on the Groups Analyses of provisions are set out on pages 312 to 314. available-for-sale debt securities are concentrated in its portfolios of mortgage-backed securities.
The losses reflect the widening of credit Available-for-sale financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus spreads as a result of the reduced market liquidity in these securities and directly related transaction costs and are subsequently measured at fair the current uncertain macroeconomic outlook in the US and Europe.
The value with changes in fair value reported in owners equity until disposal, underlying securities remain unimpaired.
at which stage the cumulative gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
When there is objective evidence that an available-for-sale financial asset Analyses of AFS debt securities and related AFS reserves are set out on is impaired, any decline in its fair value below original cost is removed page 316 and 317. from equity and recognised in profit or loss.
REIL flow statement REIL are stated without giving effect to any security held that could reduce the eventual loss should it occur or to any provisions marked.
REIL and PPLs summary The table below analyses REIL between UK and overseas, based on the location of the lending office.
311 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Balance sheet analysis continued REIL, provisions and AFS reserves continued Potential problem loans Potential problem loans PPL are loans for which an impairment event has taken place but no impairment loss is expected.
This category is used for advances which are not past due 90 days or revolving credit facilities where identification as 90 days overdue is not feasible.
2013 2012 2011 m m m Potential problem loans 789 807 739 Both REIL and PPL are reported gross and take no account of the value of any security held which could reduce the eventual loss should it occur, nor of any provision marked.
Therefore impaired assets which are highly collateralised, such as mortgages, will have a low coverage ratio of provisions held against the reported impaired balance.
Past due analysis The table below shows loans and advances to customers that were past due at the balance sheet date but are not considered impaired.
314 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Impairment charge analysis The table below analyses the impairment charge for loans and securities.
315 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Balance sheet analysis continued REIL, provisions and AFS reserves continued Non-Core by donating division UK International Ulster US Corporate Banking Bank R&C Other Total 2013 m m m m m m Individually assessed 362 1,145 3,001 6 4,502 Collectively assessed 11 28 84 123 Latent loss 18 36 2 78 1 21 Loans to customers 355 1,109 3,027 156 1 4,646 Securities 70 70 Charge to income statement 355 1,039 3,027 156 1 4,576 2012 Individually assessed 206 913 842 25 1,936 Collectively assessed 71 25 208 8 312 Latent loss 37 1 116 6 2 72 Loans to customers 240 914 983 177 6 2,320 Securities 97 97 Charge to income statement 240 817 983 177 6 2,223 2011 Individually assessed 512 679 2,426 3 1 3,615 Collectively assessed 129 29 372 14 516 Latent loss 113 106 66 8 293 Loans to customers 528 679 2,349 303 21 3,838 Securities 78 5 83 Charge to income statement 528 757 2,349 303 16 3,921 AFS reserves by issuer The table below analyses available-for-sale debt securities and related reserves, gross of tax.
316 Business review Risk and balance sheet management AFS gross unrealised losses The table below shows the fair value of available-for-sale debt securities that were in an unrealised loss position at 31 December and the related gross unrealised losses.
Less than 12 months More than 12 months Total Gross Gross Gross unrealised unrealised unrealised Fair value losses Fair value losses Fair value losses 2013 m m m m m m Central and local government - UK 6,987 69 6,987 69 - US 4,189 85 8 1 4,197 86 - other 2,605 18 852 14 3,457 32 Banks 726 1 3,319 204 4,045 205 Other financial institutions 6,063 65 4,842 428 10,905 493 Corporate 19 2 15 34 2 Total 20,589 240 9,036 647 29,625 887 Of which ABS 8,964 119 8,067 634 17,031 753 2012 Central and local government - US 59 1 59 1 - other 1,625 2 145 12 1,770 14 Banks 398 2 3,466 507 3,864 509 Other financial institutions 248 19 7,686 1,300 7,934 1,319 Corporate 346 4 4 350 4 Total 2,676 28 11,301 1,819 13,977 1,847 Of which ABS 398 20 10,999 1,797 11,397 1,817 2011 Central and local government - other 2,878 65 778 106 3,656 171 Banks 3,924 49 5,676 789 9,600 838 Other financial institutions 472 41 6,504 2,345 6,976 2,386 Corporate 204 11 78 2 282 13 Total 7,478 166 13,036 3,242 20,514 3,408 Of which ABS 878 54 11,908 3,104 12,786 3,158 317 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Market risk 319 Definition 319 Sources of risk 321 Governance structure 322 Traded market risk 334 Non-traded market risk 318 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Market risk Non-traded market risk Definition The majority of the Groups non-traded market risk exposure arises from Market risk is the risk of losses arising from fluctuations in interest rates, retail and commercial banking activities in all divisions from assets and credit spreads, foreign currency rates, equity prices, commodity prices liabilities that are not classified as held for trading.
and other factors, such as market volatilities, that may lead to a reduction in earnings, economic value or both.
The Groups management of non-traded market risk is largely organised in line with the following three key categories: non-traded interest rate risk Sources of risk NTIRR : non-traded foreign exchange risk: and non-traded equity risk.
The Group is exposed to traded market risk through its trading activities and to non-traded market risk as a result of its banking activities.
In many Interest rate risk respects, it manages its traded and non-traded market risk exposures NTIRR arises from the provision to customers of a range of banking separately, as described in this section, largely in line with the regulatory products that have differing interest rate characteristics.
Therefore, when definitions of the trading and non-trading books.
aggregated, these products form portfolios of assets and liabilities with varying degrees of sensitivity to changes in market interest rates.
Traded market risk Mismatches in these characteristics can give rise to volatility in net The majority of the Groups traded market risk exposure arises in Markets interest income as interest rates rise and fall.
NTIRR comprises four primary risk factors: repricing risk, yield curve risk, The primary objective of the Groups trading activities is to provide a basis risk and optionality risk.
For more information, see page 334. range of financing, risk management and investment services to its customers - including major corporations and financial institutions around Foreign exchange risk the world.
From a market risk perspective, the Group's trading activities Non-traded foreign exchange risk exposures for the Group arise from two are included within the following markets: currencies: emerging markets: main sources: rates: asset-backed products: and traded credit.
the capital deployed in foreign subsidiaries, branches and The Group undertakes transactions in financial instruments including debt associates and related currency funding where it differs from sterling securities, loans, deposits and equities, as well as securities financing these exposures are known as structural foreign exchange and derivatives.
exposures : and Some of these transactions involve trading or clearing financial customer transactions and profits and losses in a currency that are instruments on an exchange, including interest rate swaps, futures and not conducted in the functional currency of the transacting operation.
Holders of these instruments provide margin on a daily basis with cash or other security at the exchange.
Equity risk Non-traded equity risk is the potential variation in the Groups income and Over-the-counter transactions with standard terms are cleared through reserves arising from changes in the values of non-trading book equity central counterparties, while complex transactions are settled directly with positions.
Equity exposures arise through strategic acquisitions, venture the counterparty.
These range from commoditised transactions in capital investments and GRG restructuring arrangements.
derivative markets to trades tailored to meet specific customer requirements.
Such transactions also give rise to counterparty credit risk, Pension risk which the Group manages actively for more information on how the The Groups pension-related activities also give rise to market risk.
Refer Group manages counterparty credit risk, refer to the Credit Risk section, to page 356 and 357 for more information on risk related to pensions.
319 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Market risk continued Sources of risk continued Linkage to balance sheet The table below analyses the Groups balance sheet by trading and non-trading business.
Trading Non-trading Total business 1 business 2 Non-trading business 2013 bn bn bn Primary risk factor Assets Cash and balances at central banks 82.7 82.7 Interest rate, foreign exchange Net loans and advances to banks 27.6 9.3 18.3 Interest rate Net loans and advances to customers 390.8 19.4 371.4 Interest rate Reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing 76.4 75.7 0.7 Interest rate Debt securities 113.6 56.7 56.9 Interest rate Equity shares 8.8 7.2 1.6 Equity Derivatives 288.0 284.9 3.1 Interest rate, foreign exchange Settlement balances 5.6 5.6 Other assets 34.4 34.4 Interest rate Total assets 1,027.9 458.8 569.1 Liabilities Deposits by banks 35.3 19.2 16.1 Interest rate Customer deposits 414.4 9.7 404.7 Interest rate Repurchase agreements and stock lending 85.1 73.6 11.5 Interest rate Debt securities in issue 67.8 19.7 48.1 Interest rate Settlement balances 5.3 5.3 Short positions 28.0 28.0 Derivatives 285.5 283.4 2.1 Interest rate, foreign exchange Subordinated liabilities 24.0 24.0 Interest rate Other liabilities 23.3 23.3 Interest rate, credit spreads Total liabilities 968.7 438.9 529.8 Notes: 1 Trading businesses are entities that primarily have exposures that are classified as trading book under regulatory rules.
For these exposures, the main methods used by the Group to measure market risk are discussed under Traded market risk - Risk measurement on page 323.
2 Non-trading businesses are entities that primarily have exposures that are not classified as trading book.
For these exposures, with the exception of pension-related activities, the main measurement methods are sensitivity analysis of net interest income, internal non-traded VaR and fair value calculations: for more information, refer to pages 334 to 340. unaudited 320 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Governance structure Limit breaches at the Group level require escalation by the head of traded For general information on risk governance in the Group, see the Risk market risk or the head of non-traded market risk, as appropriate, to the governance section on pages 176.
Limit breaches at the divisional or legal entity level require escalation by the head of the relevant divisional market risk The Group Chief Risk Officer CRO delegates responsibility for day-tofunction to the head of traded market risk or the head of non-traded day control of market risk to the traded and non-traded market risk market risk, as appropriate.
Responsibility for controlling market risk in divisions is delegated to divisional market risk functions, the heads of which are Valuation and independent price verification accountable to divisional CROs, who in turn are accountable to the Group Traders are responsible for marking-to-market their trading book CRO.
positions daily, ensuring that assets and liabilities in the trading book are measured at their fair value.
Any profits or losses on the revaluation of Risk management positions are recognised daily.
Frameworks and processes common to both traded and non-traded market risk management are described in this sub-section.
Separate subBusiness unit controllers are responsible for ensuring that independent sections on traded and non-traded market risk follow, which provide more price verification processes are in place covering all trading book detailed information specific to the management and measurement of positions held by their business.
Independent price verification is the key these two risk types.
control over front office marking of positions.
Risk appetite and limit framework For more information on valuation controls, refer to page 412.
The Market risk appetite is the level of market risk that the Group accepts validation of pricing models is discussed below.
when pursuing its business objectives, taking into account both projected and stressed scenarios.
The Group has a comprehensive structure and Model validation controls in place aimed at ensuring that this appetite is not exceeded.
This sub-section discusses the independent model validation framework governing both pricing models and risk models including Value-at-Risk.
The Groups qualitative market risk appetite is set out in policy statements.
These define the governance, responsibilities, control The Group uses a variety of models to manage and measure market risk, framework and requirements for the identification, measurement, as described below.
These models comprise pricing models used for analysis, management and reporting of market risk arising from the valuation of positions and risk models for risk measurement and capital Groups trading and non-trading activities.
These policies are also calculation purposes.
They are developed in both divisional units and cascaded, as appropriate, to the Groups legal entities, divisions and Group functions and are subject to independent review and sign-off.
businesses to ensure there is a consistent control framework throughout.
The Group has a dedicated independent model review and challenge Group market risk limits that express its market risk appetite in function - Group Risk Analytics GRA - which performs reviews of quantitative terms for trading and non-trading activities are proposed by, relevant models in two instances: i for new models or amendments to respectively, the heads of traded and non-traded market risk.
Once existing models and ii as part of its ongoing programme to assess the approved by the ERF, these limits establish a set of comprehensive performance of these models.
boundaries within which business activities are conducted and monitored.
The heads of traded and non-traded market risk cascade the Group A new model is typically introduced when an existing model is no longer market risk limits down to the legal entities and divisions.
The divisional fit for purpose or a new product requires a new methodology or model to market risk functions are responsible for cascading legal entity and quantify the risk appropriately.
Amendments are usually made when a divisional market risk limits to lower levels as appropriate.
weakness is identified during use of a model or following analysis either by the model developers in the divisions or by GRA.
The limit framework comprises not only Group limits but also legal entity, divisional and lower level limits and aims to capture all material market GRA also reassesses the appropriateness of approved models following risks arising from the Groups activities.
significant market or regulatory developments or portfolio changes.
The mechanics of the review process are the same as those for new models.
The limit framework at the Group level comprises Value at Risk VaR, Stressed Value at Risk SVaR, sensitivity and stress limits for more Pricing models details on VaR and SVaR, see pages 323 and 328.
The limit framework Pricing models are developed by a dedicated front office team, in at the divisional, legal entity and lower levels also comprises additional conjunction with the trading desk.
They are used for the valuation of metrics that are specific to the market risk exposures within its scope.
positions for which prices are not directly observable and for the risk These additional metrics aim to control various risk dimensions such as management of the portfolio.
product type, exposure size, aged inventory, currency and tenor.
Any pricing models that are used as the basis for valuing books and The limits are reviewed to reflect changes in risk appetite, business records are subject to approval and oversight by asset-level modelled plans, portfolio composition and the market and economic environments.
unaudited 321 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Market risk continued Ensuring model outputs are sufficiently conservative in areas where Risk management continued there is significant model uncertainty: These committees comprise representatives of the major stakeholders in the valuation process - trading, finance, market risk, model development Confirming the applicability of tests for accuracy and stability: and model review functions.
recalculating and ensuring that results are robust: and The review process comprises the following steps: Ensuring appropriate sensitivity analysis has been performed and documented.
The committees prioritise models for GRA review, considering the materiality of the risk booked against the model and an assessment Based on the review and findings from GRA, an internal model of the degree of model risk, that is the valuation uncertainty arising governance committee with appropriate delegated authority considers from the choice of modelling assumptions.
whether a model can be approved for use and whether any conditions need to be imposed, including those relating to the remediation of GRA quantifies the model risk by comparing front office model material issues raised through the review process.
Once approved outputs with those of alternative models independently developed by through internal governance, the new or amended model is implemented.
Models used for regulatory reporting may additionally require PRA approval before implementation.
The sensitivities derived from the pricing models are validated.
GRA also reassesses the appropriateness of approved risk models The conclusions of the review are used by Market Risk to inform risk annually.
limits and by Finance to inform model reserves.
Traded market risk Risk models Risk management All new risk models are subject to GRA review and sign-off.
The governance framework, risk management principles and appetite and limit framework applicable to the Groups management of market risk All model changes are approved through model governance at the are covered by the discussion on page 176.
More specific information on divisional level.
Changes to existing models that have an impact on VaR the Groups management of traded market risk is provided below.
exceeding 5% at legal entity level or 15% at a major business level are also subject to GRA review and sign-off as are all model changes that Identification and assessment require regulator approval before implementation.
Identification and assessment of traded market risk is achieved through gathering, analysing, monitoring and reporting market risk information by The traded market risk team in Markets also performs regular VaR model business line or at a consolidated level.
Industry expertise, continued testing, which is discussed in more detail under Risk measurement - system developments and techniques such as stress testing are also Value at Risk on page 323. used to enhance the effectiveness of the identification of all material market risks.
GRAs independent review comprises some or all of the following steps, as appropriate: This is complemented by the Groups New Product Risk Assessment process, which requires market risk teams to assess and quantify market Testing and challenging the logical and conceptual soundness of the risk associated with all proposed new products.
methodology: Reporting and monitoring Testing the assumptions underlying the model, where feasible, The Groups traded market risk exposures are monitored against limits against actual behaviour.
In its validation report, GRA will opine on and analysed daily by market risk reporting and control functions.
A daily the reasonableness and stability of the assumptions and specify report that summarises the Groups market risk exposures against the which assumptions, if any, should be routinely monitored in limits set by the ERF is sent to the Group CRO, divisional CROs and production: market risk managers across the divisions.
Testing whether all key market risks have been sufficiently captured: Divisional market risk functions also prepare daily risk reports that detail exposures against a more granular set of limits and triggers.
Re-applying the Group's proposed approach to verify that the same outcome is achieved: Limit reporting is supplemented with regulatory capital and stress testing information as well as ad hoc reporting.
Comparing outputs with results from alternative methods: Finally, a market risk update is included in the monthly risk management Testing parameter selection and calibration: report sent to Group Board.
The update covers the key risks and trends, together with a discussion of relevant issues and market topics.
unaudited 322 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Mitigation The Groups internal traded VaR model captures all trading book To ensure approved limits are not breached and that the Group remains positions including those approved by the regulator.
In 2013, within its risk appetite, triggers at Group, legal entity and divisional levels improvements were made to the risk sensitivities associated with funding have been set such that if exposures exceed a specified level, action valuation adjustments FVAs, which resulted in a reduction in the hedge plans are developed by the front office, Market Risk and Finance.
At the point of implementation, the impact on RBS plc was a 9 million decrease in 1-day 99% regulatory VaR and an associated 42 Counterparty Exposure Management million decrease in regulatory SVaR.
The current internal VaR Management of the over-the-counter derivative counterparty credit risk methodology does not include credit valuation adjustment CVA and and funding risk is carried out by the Counterparty Exposure FVA exposures as these are out of scope of the measure, although the Management CEM desk in Markets.
CEM actively manages risk Group is planning to include these in its internal VaR measure in 2014. exposures and concentrations on behalf of both Markets and Non-Core.
For an explanation of the distinction between internal VaR and regulatory The hedging transactions CEM enters into are booked in the trading book VaR, see page 330. and therefore contribute to the Groups market risk VaR exposure and capital.
The RBS internal VaR model captures the impact on the income statement of the following risk factors: Risk measurement The Group uses a comprehensive and complementary set of Interest rate risk, which arises from the impact of changes in interest methodologies and techniques to measure traded market risk that rates and volatilities on cash instruments and derivatives.
This collectively ensure a complete approach to the measurement of material includes interest rate tenor basis risk and cross-currency basis risk.
The Group's main measurement Credit spread risk, which arises from the impact of changes in the methods are VaR and SVaR.
credit spreads of sovereign bonds, corporate bonds, securitised Risks that are not adequately products and credit derivatives.
captured by these model methodologies are captured by the Currency risk, which arises from the impact of changes in currency Risks Not in VaR RNIV rates and volatilities.
framework to ensure that the Group is adequately capitalised for Equity risk, which arises from the impact of changes in equity prices, market risk.
In addition, stress volatilities and dividend yields.
testing is used to identify any vulnerabilities and potential losses Commodity risk, which arises from the impact of changes in in excess of VaR and SVaR.
These methods have been designed to capture correlation effects and The risk factors presented above are sufficient to define the Groups allow the Group to form an aggregated view of its traded market risk overall market risk exposures.
In addition, the following risks, which are across risk types, markets and business lines while also taking into components of the above-mentioned risk factors, are also monitored by account the characteristics of each risk type.
individual businesses to identify and address any material concentrations: Each of these methodologies and techniques is discussed in more detail Basis risk, which is the risk that imperfect correlation between two below.
instruments in a hedging strategy creates the potential for excess gains or losses, thus adding risk to the position: Value at-risk VaR is a statistical estimate of the potential change in the market value of Prepayment risk, which is the risk associated with early unscheduled a portfolio and, thus, the impact on the income statement over a return of principal on a fixed rate security: and specified time horizon at a given confidence level.
Inflation risk, which is the risk of a decrease in the value of For internal risk management purposes, the Groups VaR assumes a instruments as a result of changes in inflation rates and associated time horizon of one trading day and a confidence level of 99%.
Group's VaR model is based on a historical simulation, utilising data from the previous 500 days on an equally weighted basis.
323 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Market risk continued Traded market risk continued When the Group uses ten-day risk factor changes in the calculation VaR limitations of the regulatory VaR, the ten-day periods overlap, which can Historical VaR and the Groups implementation of this risk measurement introduce an autocorrelation bias in the 99% confidence level VaR methodology have a number of known limitations, as summarised below, statistic.
The analysis performed has shown the bias to be small and and the Groups VaR should be interpreted in light of these.
The Groups acceptable for a ten-day period.
approach is to supplement VaR with other risk metrics that address these limitations to ensure appropriate coverage of all material market risks.
The Group computes the VaR of trading positions at the close of business.
Positions may change substantially during the course of Historical simulation VaR may not provide the best estimate of future the trading day and so intra-day price volatility and trading may not market movements.
It can only provide a forecast of portfolio losses be captured by the model.
based on events that occurred in the past.
The Group model uses the previous two years of data: this period represents a balance The data used in the model are collected from global sources.
For between model responsiveness to recent shocks and risk factor data some sources, local end-of-day, rather than London end-of-day, coverage.
This timing mismatch is more material for 1-day return periods than for 10-day periods which are used for The use of a 99% confidence level VaR statistic does not provide capitalisation purposes as the overlaps are inherently smaller information about losses beyond this level, usually referred to as across shorter periods.
When deciding whether or not to use local tail risks.
These risks are more appropriately assessed using end-of-day timing, the internal model review committee balances the measures such as Stressed VaR and stress testing.
principle of aligning the treatment of positions and their associated hedges against the goal of using London end-of-day timing The use of a one-day time horizon will not fully capture the profit and consistently.
loss implications of positions that cannot be liquidated or hedged within one day.
This may not fully reflect market risk at times of Risk factors relevant to a specific portfolio may be omitted, due to a severe illiquidity in the market when a one-day period may be lack of reliable data, or the use of proxy risk factors, for example.
insufficient to liquidate or hedge positions fully.
Thus, the regulatory The Group has developed the RNIV framework to address these VaR that is used for modelled market risk capital uses a ten-day issues.
Note: 1 The internal 99% 1-day VaR does not distinguish between regulator approved products and therefore includes a broader range of products.
Refer to page 330 for discussion of regulatory VaR.
unaudited 324 Business review Risk and balance sheet management 1-day 99% traded internal VaR table The table below analyses the internal VaR for the Groups trading portfolios, segregated by type of market risk exposure, and split between Core, NonCore and CEM.
The extent of the diversification benefit depends on the correlation between the assets and risk factors in the portfolio at a particular time.
The diversification factor is the sum of the VaR on individual risk types less the total portfolio VaR.
Key points The Groups period end and average interest rate VaR declined in The Group's Core and CEM period end and average VaR declined, 2013 compared with 2012.
The reduction was mainly seen in Q1 driven by the declines in the interest rate and credit spread VaR.
2013, when the rates desk significantly fide-risked its exposures and repositioned itself to manage concentrations.
In addition, CEMs The decrease in average and period end Non-Core VaR reflects the contribution to VaR decreased due to improvements in the capture Group's risk reduction strategy.
of valuation adjustment risk within VaR metrics.
The volatility seen in the second half was also due to rate volatility reflecting Bank of During H2 2013, some positions from businesses were migrated to England and European Central Bank rate announcements and a US the newly created Run-off and Recovery ROR unit in Markets.
At Federal Reserve announcement regarding tapering of its 31 December 2013, the VaR on the ROR business was 6.0 million.
The Groups period-end and average credit spread VaR declined in 2013 compared with 2012.
This decline was driven by an ongoing reduction in inventory as part of Group-wide efforts to reduce RWAs ahead of CRD IV implementation.
Risk reduction during the first half of the year was aided by the flow business reducing the complexity of its trading operations.
In the second half of the year, the VaR decrease was driven by a reduction in the asset-backed securities inventory.
325 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Market risk continued There are two types of profit and loss P&L used in back-testing Traded market risk continued comparisons: Clean P&L and Hypothetical Hypo P&L.
VaR validation In addition to the independent VaR model reviews carried out by GRA The Clean P&L figure for a particular business day is the firms actual discussed on page 323, a dedicated model-testing team within Market P&L for that day in respect of the trading activities within the scope of the Risk works with the risk managers to: firms regulatory VaR model, adjusted by stripping out: Test the accuracy of the valuation methods used in the VaR model on appropriately chosen test portfolios and trades.
Fees and commissions: Apply in-house models to perform advanced internal back-testing to Brokerage: complement the regulatory back-testing.
Additions to, and releases from, reserves that are not directly related Ensure that tests capture the effect of using external data proxies to market risk: and where these are used.
Any Day 1 P&L exceeding an amount of 500,000 per transaction.
Identify risks not adequately captured in VaR, and ensure that such risks are addressed via the RNIV framework see page 328.
The Hypo P&L reflects the firms Clean P&L excluding any intra-day activities.
Identify any model weaknesses or scope limitations and their impact.
A portfolio is said to produce a back-testing exception when the Clean or Hypo P&L exceeds the VaR level on a given day.
Such an event may be Identify and give early warning of any market or portfolio weakness caused by a large market movement or may highlight issues such as that may become significant.
missing risk factors or inappropriate time series.
Any such issues identified are analysed and addressed through taking appropriate As well as being an important market risk measurement and control tool, remediation or development action.
The Group monitors both Clean and the VaR model is also used to determine a significant component of the Hypo back-testing exceptions.
market risk capital requirement see page 332 for more information on calculation of capital requirements.
Therefore, it is subject to not only Regulatory back-testing is performed and reported on a daily basis for ongoing internal review and validation but also regulator-prescribed backlegal entities and major business portfolios.
Divisional market risk teams testing.
also perform back-testing at the lower levels as part of the internal ongoing VaR model validation.
VaR back-testing The main approach employed to assess the ongoing model performance The back-testing described above primarily applies to Markets and Nonis back-testing, which counts the number of days when a loss exceeds Core models, which are approved by the regulators.
However, where the corresponding daily VaR estimate, measured at a 99% confidence appropriate, back-testing is also performed for other portfolios that are level.
not subject to regulatory approval.
The graph below presents 1-day 99% regulatory VaR vs. Hypo P&L for RBS plc, the Group's largest legal entity by market risk RWAs and positions.
326 Business review Risk and balance sheet management VaR back-testing The table below shows regulatory back-testing exceptions for a period of 250 days for 1-day 99% traded regulatory VaR vs. Clean and Hypo P&L for the legal entities approved by the PRA and fide Nederlandsche Bank.
Back-testing exceptions Model Description Clean Hypo status The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Green National Westminster Bank Plc 1 1 Green RBS Securities Inc Green RBS Financial Products Inc Green The Royal Bank of Scotland N. V. 1 1 Green Key points Statistically the Group would expect to see back-testing exceptions The exception at the NatWest level was mainly driven by a large 1% of the time over a one-year period.
From a capital requirement move in inflation following an Office of National Statistics perspective, the PRA categorises a firms VaR model as green, announcement in January that it would not be changing the RPI amber or red.
A green model status is consistent with a satisfactory calculation.
VaR model and is achieved for models that have four or fewer exceptions in a continuous 12 month period.
The Groups VaR The exception at the RBS NV level was primarily a result of a model has maintained a green status for its regulated legal entities significant rise in Indian bond yields as the countrys central bank and hence has considered that no action is required to rectify or unexpectedly raised benchmark interest rates by 200 basis points.
The table below shows internal back-testing exceptions for a period of 250 days for 1-day 99% traded internal VaR vs. Clean and Hypo P&L for major Markets businesses.
Back-testing exceptions Description Clean Hypo Asset Backed Products Treasury Markets Emerging Markets Equities Currency Options 1 1 Interest Rate Options North America Non Linear Trading 2 2 Delta Flow flow rates 1 1 CEM Funding derivative funding risk Flow Credit Currencies 6 Key points As mentioned above, statistically the Group would expect to see The exceptions in Currency Options, Non-Linear Trading and Delta back-testing exceptions 1% of the time over a one-year period.
Flow occurred in the normal course of business and were mainly At Group level, there were no exceptions during 2013, related to volatile currencies and rates following a Bank of England confirming that the model was satisfactory.
announcement on interest rates, a US Federal Reserve announcement regarding tapering of its quantitative easing The businesses presented in the table above are subject to quarterly programme and a statistical release indicating slow growth in governance by the PRA.
For some of these businesses, exceptions the Chinese economy.
were noted during 2013 and analysis conducted as explained below.
The exceptions in Currencies were mainly due to currency fluctuations, driven primarily by increased volatility in the Australian dollar, Singapore dollar and Japanese yen.
Investigation into the number of exceptions confirmed that the VaR model used for this business was satisfactory.
unaudited 327 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Market risk continued The Group adopts two approaches for the quantification of RNIVs: Traded market risk continued Stressed VaR SVaR A standalone VaR approach.
Under this approach, two values are As with VaR, the SVaR technique produces estimates of the potential calculated: i the VaR RNIV: and ii the SVaR RNIV.
change in the market value of a portfolio, over a specified time horizon, at a given confidence level.
SVaR is a VaR-based measure using historical A stress-scenario approach.
Under this approach, an assessment of data from a one-year period of stressed market conditions.
ten-day extreme, but plausible, market moves is used in combination with position sensitivities to give a stress-type loss The risk system simulates 99% VaR on the current portfolio for each 260- number - the stressed RNIV value.
day period from 1 January 2005 to the current VaR date, moving forward one day at a time.
The SVaR is the worst VaR outcome of the simulated In 2013, for each legal entity covered by the PRA VaR model waiver, results.
RNIVs above a regulatory defined threshold were aggregated to obtain the following three measures: i Total VaR RNIV: ii Total SVaR RNIV: This is in contrast with VaR, which is based on a rolling 500-day historical and iii Total stressed RNIV.
In each of these categories, potential data set.
For the purposes of both internal risk management and diversification benefits between RNIVs are ignored.
regulatory SVaR calculation, a time horizon of ten trading days is assumed with a confidence level of 99%.
The top ten RNIVs represent approximately two thirds of the total RNIV capital requirement.
Trading SVaR 2013 2012 RNIVs are broadly classified as follows: m m Total Group 309 396 Proxied sensitivities or risk factors: to cover instruments for which Core Markets 298 372 market data is not available.
Non-Core 51 69 Higher-order sensitivity terms: to account for the fact that the Key point Groups VaR model is based on a P&L approximation function rather The Group's period end SVaR declined in 2013 compared with than full repricing of deals.
This is consistent with the observed decrease in VaR during 2013 and is primarily driven by significant fide-risking of interest rate Interpolation and re-bucketing inaccuracy: to cover residual errors exposures and reduction in the asset-backed securities inventory.
resulting from the pre-processing of risk factors into a standard set across tenors.
Risks not in VaR RNIVs The RNIV approach is used for market risks that fall within the scope of Data selection bias: to cover the possibility of suboptimal data VaR and SVaR but that are insufficiently captured by the model sources being selected for risk factors.
methodology, for example due to a lack of suitable historical data.
The RNIV framework has been developed to quantify these market risks and Static pricing parameters: to cover the possibility that suboptimal to ensure that the Group holds adequate capital.
assumed values are used for certain unobserved parameters in pricing models.
The need for an RNIV is typically identified in one of the following two circumstances: i as part of the New Product Risk Assessment process, Missing basis risks: to cover cases where data sources are not when a risk manager assesses that the associated risk is not adequately detailed enough to differentiate the risks of long and short pairs of captured by the VaR model: or ii as a result of a recommendation made closely related instruments.
by GRA or the model validation team when reviewing the VaR model.
The most material of these are proxy or basis risks, followed by higherThe RNIVs provide a capital estimate of risks not captured in the VaR order sensitivity risks.
model and are regularly reported and discussed with senior management and the regulator.
The methodology used in the RNIV calculation is RNIVs that are related specifically to instruments that have level 3 internally reviewed by the model-testing team.
Where appropriate, risk valuation hierarchy assumptions see pages 418 to 423 are mainly managers set sensitivity limits to control specific risk factors giving rise to included in the following categories: proxied sensitivities or risk factors: the RNIV.
RNIVs form an integral part of the Groups ongoing model and higher-order sensitivity terms: and static pricing parameters.
data improvement efforts to capture all market risks in scope for model approval in VaR and SVaR.
Since the introduction of the RNIV framework, the Group has made significant progress in transitioning RNIVs into the VaR model.
unaudited 328 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Risks not in VaR RNIVs The table below analyses capital requirements related to RNIVs.
2013 2012 m m Risks Not in VaR RNIV 30 94 Risks Not in SVaR RNISV 39 149 Stressed RNIV SRNIV 149 187 218 430 Key points Macroeconomic stress tests are carried out periodically as part of the The decreases in the VaR RNIV and SVaR RNIV were driven by firm-wide, cross-risk capital planning process.
The scenario narratives progress in obtaining reliable sources of equity market data and by are translated into risk factor shocks using historical events and insights an improvement in the VaR model for asset-backed products.
by economists, risk managers and the front office.
Market risk stress results are combined with those for other risks into the capital plan that is The decrease in the Stressed RNIV primarily reflected a reduction in presented to the Board.
The cross-risk capital planning process is RBSSIs asset-backed products exposures.
conducted twice a year, in April May and October November, with a planning horizon of five years.
The scenario narratives cover both Stress testing regulatory scenarios such as the PRA Anchor and Fed Stress The Group undertakes daily market risk stress testing to identify comprehensive capital assessment review CCAR and macroeconomic vulnerabilities and potential losses in excess of or not captured in VaR.
scenarios identified by the firm such as a Euro Break-Up and the US The calculated stresses measure the impact of changes in risk factors on Fiscal Cliff.
the fair values of the Groups trading and available-for-sale portfolios.
Bottom-up stress testing begins with the analysis of a portfolio and The Group conducts scenario-based sensitivity analysis and historical, expresses the key vulnerabilities of the portfolio in terms of plausible, somacroeconomic and bottom-up stress testing.
called vulnerability scenarios under which the portfolio would suffer material losses.
These scenarios can be historical, forward-looking, Scenario-based sensitivity analysis measures the sensitivity of the macroeconomic or hypothetical.
Bottom-up stress testing is used for current portfolio to defined movements in market risk factors.
These risk internal management information and is not subject to limits.
However, factor movements and the resulting valuation changes are typically relevant scenarios are reported to senior management.
smaller than those considered in other stress tests.
Economic capital Historical stress testing is a measure that is used for internal A market risk economic capital framework was developed in 2013 and management.
Using a similar technical framework to VaR, the current will be introduced in the Groups internal reporting during 2014. portfolio is stressed using historical data since 1 January 2005.
The methodology simulates the impact of the worst loss that would be The associated models calculate the market and default risk in the incurred by historical risk factor movements over the period, assuming a trading book.
The results are annualised to be consistent with the other holding period specific to the risk factors and the businesses.
At present, Group economic capital models to permit consolidation of all risk types as a holding period of 60 business days is applied for credit risk factors part of the Group-wide economic capital programme.
including in the case of ABS and for the AFS portfolios that are held by Markets Treasury and generally a period of 10 business days for other Other risk measures risk factors.
The Group reviews the holding periods annually and is In addition to SVaR and stress tests, the Group uses a range of other risk considering introducing greater distinction between the liquidity measures to complement VaR.
These measures often represent local assumptions associated with each risk factor.
small-amplitude risk calculations which provide valuable additional controls, often at individual desk or business unit level.
They mainly The main strength of this methodology is that it is founded on objective include, but are not limited to, sensitivity and position-based risk data and the potential loss is directly informed by real-life examples.
with all historically based methodologies, an obvious limitation is that the approach it is not forward-looking.
However, this weakness is materially Sensitivity measures refer to the changes in deal or portfolio value that addressed by the other stress testing approaches that constitute the RBS result from small changes in market parameters that are subject to the stress testing framework.
Group market risk limit framework.
Historical stress tests form part of the Group market risk limit framework Position-based measures are also used and are stated in terms that and their results are reported daily to senior management.
relate directly to the business activity they are applied to.
Examples of such measures include the aggregate open foreign exchange position or the long, short and net amount of security or currency held and aged unaudited inventory in trading books.
329 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Market risk continued RWAs by legal entity and by regulatory approach Traded market risk continued Market risk RWAs of 30.3 billion and minimum capital requirement of Regulatory capital 2.4 billion are analysed below.
Regulatory treatment The market risks subject to capital requirements under Pillar 1 are primarily interest rate, credit spread and equity risks in the trading book and foreign exchange and commodity risks in both the trading and nontrading books.
Interest rate and equity risks are split between general and specific risks.
General risks represent market risks due to a move in a market as a whole, such as a main index or yield curve, while specific risks represent market risks arising from events particular to an underlying issuer.
Firms can choose from two broad methodologies to calculate their market risk capital charge: i the standard rules, whereby regulator-prescribed rules must be applied, and ii the internal model approach, where, subject to regulatory approval, a model such as VaR is used to calculate the capital charge.
RBS uses both methods, with the internal model approach being used to calculate about 86% of its capital charge.
VaR and SVaR capture general and specific risks but not risks arising from the impact of defaults and rating changes associated with traded credit products and their derivatives.
For these risks, three productdependent approaches are used: The Incremental Risk Charge IRC model captures risks arising from defaults and rating changes risks for the more liquid traded credit instruments and their derivatives.
The All Price Risk APR model covers the generally lower-liquidity correlation trades and their liquid hedges such as first-to-default basket trades.
Securitisation and re-securitisation risks in the trading book are Regulatory VaR treated with the non-trading book standardised capitalisation The Groups VaR model has been approved by the PRA to calculate its approach.
regulatory market risk capital requirement for the trading book for those legal entities under its jurisdiction.
These legal entities are The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, RBS Securities Inc, RBS Financial Products Inc, and National Westminster Bank Plc.
While internal VaR provides a measure of the economic risk, regulatory VaR is one of the measures of regulatory capital by legal entity.
The calculation of regulatory VaR differs from that of the internal VaR as it takes into account only regulator-approved products, locations and legal entities and it is based on a ten-day, rather than a one-day, holding period for market risk capital calculations.
The PRA approval covers general market risk in interest rate, foreign exchange, equity and commodity products and specific market risk in interest rate and equity products.
unaudited 330 Business review Risk and balance sheet management VaR back-testing The multivariate behaviour of positions is modelled via the relevant For the Groups trading book, a green model status was maintained reference entities using a single-factor model Gaussian Copula, which throughout 2013.
For details of back-testing results for regulatory VaR, allows a more efficient calculation of the charge using numerical refer to the table on page 327. integration.
Regulatory SVaR The model is mainly driven by three-month transition, default and The Groups SVaR model has also been approved by the PRA for use in correlation parameters.
The portfolio impact of correlated defaults and the capital requirement calculation.
The regulatory SVaR differs from rating changes is assessed with reference to the resulting change in the internal SVaR as it covers only regulator-approved products, locations market value of positions, which is determined using stressed recovery and legal entities.
rates and modelled credit spread changes.
Individual instrument revaluation vectors are used to capture non-linear behaviour.
Risks not in VaR RNIVs As discussed earlier, the Group has an established RNIV framework that The model has different parameters for sovereign and corporate ensures that the risks not captured in VaR are adequately covered by its exposures.
The model reflects the overall liquidity of each position capital.
referencing an entity, arising from product type, product maturity and product concentration characteristics.
The RNIV framework does not include tail event risks: these risks are covered indirectly by the regulatory multiplier applied to VaR and directly A constant level of risk is assumed and achieved by replacing positions by relevant charges, e. g. IRC, APR and gap risk discussed below.
that default or migrate in one period with equivalent positions.
The average liquidity horizon at the year end was 3.7 months 2012 - 4.6 Gap risk months.
Certain traded products are structured with buffers so that losses below a certain level are borne by the Groups counterparties.
These products All price risk APR may, however, exhibit large sudden market movements in excess of their The APR model determines the capital that should be held against all buffer, which may result in losses for the Group.
The VaR model does not material price risks, including those arising from defaults and credit rating fully capture the risk to the Group presented by these products.
The gap changes affecting securities in the hedged portfolio, using a 99.9% risk model takes into account the liquidity of the products and the likely confidence level over a one year time horizon.
effectiveness of the buffer and produces an additional capital requirement for the relevant products.
This model is applied to the correlation trading portfolio subject to certain eligibility criteria principally that the underlying names be liquid corporate This risk is concentrated in the equities business in Markets.
exposure to gap risk was not material in 2013 as the portfolios considered under this framework have been significantly reduced.
The most significant risks are credit spread risk, credit base correlation risk, index basis risk, default risk and recovery rate risk.
In addition, Incremental risk charge IRC losses due to both hedging costs and hedge slippage are modelled.
The The IRC model aims to quantify the impact of defaults and rating changes overall APR capital charge is floored at 8% of the corresponding standard on the market value of bonds, credit derivatives and other related rules charge for the same portfolio.
positions held in the trading book.
It also captures basis risks between different instruments, different product maturities and different but related RBS no longer has market risk exposure to corporate CDOs in the reference entities.
Like the internal ratings-based approach for credit risk, trading book.
It has residual exposure to nth-to-default basket swaps, it is calculated over a one-year holding period at a 99.9% confidence many of which have matured.
As a consequence, the APR charge for level.
unaudited 331 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Market risk continued Traded market risk continued Market risk capital Minimum capital requirements The following table analyses the market risk minimum capital requirement, calculated in accordance with Basel 2.5.
2013 2012 2011 m m m Interest rate position risk requirement 147 254 1,107 Equity position risk requirement 1 1 3 Option position risk requirement 10 26 26 Commodity position risk requirement 13 2 2 Foreign currency position risk requirement 39 12 10 Specific interest rate risk of securitisation positions 123 156 250 Total standard method 333 451 1,398 Pillar 1 model based position risk requirement 2,086 2,959 3,725 Total market risk minimum capital requirement 2,419 3,410 5,123 The following table analyses the principal contributors to the Pillar 1 model based position risk requirement presented in the previous table.
2013 Average 1 Maximum 1 Minimum 1 Period end 2012 2011 m m m m m m Value-at-risk VaR 1 745 875 564 576 825 887 Stressed VaR SVaR 1,056 1,266 830 841 1,226 1,682 Incremental risk charge IRC 390 458 279 443 467 469 All price risk APR 11 13 8 8 12 297 Risk not in VaR RNIV 286 433 179 218 429 390 Notes: 1 The average, maximum and minimum positions are based on the monthly Pillar 1 model based capital requirements.
2 All items are expressed in capital requirement terms.
Key points The Groups total market risk minimum capital requirement fell in The decline in the VaR and SVaR based charges was driven by 2013, largely driven by the Pillar 1 model-based contributors significant fide-risking of rates exposure in RBS plc in the first half of primarily VaR, SVaR and RNIV.
The standard method requirement the year.
In addition, the improved capture of valuation adjustments also fell, driven by the interest rate position risk requirement and the in CEM accompanied by market data improvements drove a further specific interest rate risk of securitisation positions.
reduction in these charges, particularly during the second half of the year.
The interest rate position risk requirement decreased, primarily due to the migration to VaR of certain trades, the maturity or closing of The IRC contribution to the Pillar 1 model based position risk other trades and a reduction in unmatched positions.
This differs from the figures presented in the IRC table on page 333 for the reasons explained in The option position risk requirement fell, driven by an increased the note to that table.
For more commentary on the IRC, see that impact of netting for some types of options.
This was partially offset table.
by the inclusion of some emerging market trades in the calculation as part of the migration of portfolios from RBS NV to RBS plc.
The decrease in the APR charge was due to the maturing of trades, with significant reductions in the final quarter.
The foreign currency position risk requirement increased, reflecting accelerated impairments on euro denominated assets in RBS For details on the drivers of the decline in the RNIV charge, see the Capital Resolution RCR.
Specific interest rate risk of securitisation positions: This charge decreased due to the disposal of assets, primarily in the AAA and BB rating categories, during the year.
unaudited 332 Business review Risk and balance sheet management IRC by rating and product category The following table analyses the IRC by rating and product.
2 The figures presented are based on the spot IRC charge at 31 December 2013 and will therefore not agree with the IRC position risk requirement, as this is based on the 60-day average.
The figures presented above are in capital terms.
Key points The Groups IRC was approximately 23 million or 6% higher at 31 By product category, the largest rise was in interest rate derivatives, December 2013 than one year previously.
This rise was primarily notably increased positions in BBB-rated Italian floating rate notes.
due to increased delta trading activity during the year, with This was partly offset by a decrease in BB and BBB-rated credit significant growth in positions in BBB-rated sovereign issuers derivative products, principally CDS and Index CDS.
A model parameter update at the end of 2013, chiefly incorporating additional rating information from the previous 12 months, produced an increased likelihood of certain counterparties being downgraded and, thus, had a moderate upward impact on the charge.
Securitisation positions in the trading book The following table shows the capital requirement for trading book securitisation positions by rating.
Ratings 1 Non Investment Capital AAA AA A BBB Grade Unrated Total 1,2 STD PRR 3 deductions 2013 m m m m m m m % m Trading book securitisation charge 8.9 6.2 12.7 35.5 54.5 5.4 123.2 42.9 932.1 2012 Trading book securitisation charge 15.5 7.4 15.2 35.3 75.8 6.2 155.4 36.6 1,369.6 Notes: 1 Based on S&P ratings.
3 Percentage of total standardised position risk requirement.
Key point The charge decreased in 2013, due to the disposal of assets, primarily in the AAA and BB rating categories, during the year.
unaudited 333 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Market risk continued Due to the long-term nature of many non-trading book portfolios and their Non-traded market risk varied interest rate repricing characteristics and maturities, it is likely that Risk management net interest income will vary from period to period, even if interest rates The governance framework, risk management principles and appetite remain the same.
New business originated in any period will alter the and limit framework applicable to the Groups management of market risk interest rate sensitivity of the Group if the resulting portfolio differs from are covered by the discussion on pages 176.
More specific information portfolios originated in prior periods, depending on the extent to which on the Groups management of non-traded market risk is provided below.
The Groups policy is to manage the interest rate sensitivity within risk The Group manages non-traded market risk, separately for the three key limits that are approved by the ERF and endorsed by GALCO before categories: non-traded interest rate risk: non-traded foreign exchange being cascaded to divisions through divisional ALCOs.
These include, in risk: and non-traded equity risk.
particular, interest rate sensitivity and VaR limits.
Non-traded market risk positions are reported on a regular basis to In order to manage exposures within these limits, the Group aggregates divisional Asset and Liability Management Committees ALCOs and its interest rate positions and hedges them externally using cash and monthly to the Group Balance Sheet Management Committee BSMCo, derivatives - primarily interest rate swaps.
Group Asset and Liability Committee GALCO and the Group Board, This task is primarily carried out by Group Treasury, to which all divisions with the exception of equity positions, which are reported quarterly to except US Retail & Commercial and Markets transfer most of their GALCO.
On a monthly basis, the Groups main exposures and limit utilisations are reported to the BSMCo, GALCO and the Group Board.
Interest rate risk Non-traded interest rate risk NTIRR factors are grouped into the Foreign exchange risk following categories: The Groups only material non-traded open currency positions are the structural foreign exchange exposures arising from its investments in Repricing risk, which arises when asset and liability positions either foreign subsidiaries and associates and their related currency funding.
mature in the case of fixed-rate positions or their interest rates These exposures are assessed and managed by Group Treasury under reset in the case of floating-rate positions at different dates.
These delegated authority from GALCO.
Group Treasury seeks to limit the mismatches may give rise to net interest income and economic potential volatility impact on the Groups Core Tier 1 ratio from exchange value volatility as interest rates vary.
rate movements to pre-defined risk appetite levels set by GALCO.
The sensitivity of the Groups Core Tier 1 capital to exchange rates is updated Yield curve risk, which arises from unanticipated changes in the and reported to GALCO quarterly.
shape of the yield curve, such that rates at different maturity points may move differently.
Such movements may give rise to interest Foreign exchange exposures arising from customer transactions or profit income and economic value volatility.
and losses are sold down by divisions and businesses on a regular basis in line with Group policy.
The two risk factors above incorporate the duration risk arising from Equity risk the reinvestment of maturing swaps hedging the Groups net free Non-traded equity risk is the potential variation in the Groups income and reserves or net exposure to equity and other low fixed-rate or nonreserves arising from changes in non-trading book equity valuations.
Any interest-bearing liability balances including, but not limited to, current such risk is identified prior to any investments and then mitigated through accounts.
Basis risk, which arises when related instruments with the same Investments, acquisitions or disposals of a strategic nature are referred to tenor are valued using different reference yield curves.
Changes in the Group Acquisitions and Disposals Committee ADCo.
Once the spread between the different reference curves can result in approved by ADCo for execution, such transactions are referred for unexpected changes in the valuation of or income difference approval to the Group Board, Group Executive Committee ExCo, Group between assets, liabilities or derivative instruments.
This occurs, for Finance Director or as otherwise required.
Decisions to acquire or hold example, in the Group's retail and commercial portfolios, when equity positions in the non-trading book that are not of a strategic nature, products valued on the basis of the Bank of England base rate are such as customer restructurings, are taken by authorised persons with funded with LIBOR-linked instruments.
delegated authority under the Group credit approval framework.
Optionality risk, which arises when customers have the right to Risk measurement terminate, prepay or otherwise alter a transaction without penalty, Interest rate risk resulting in a change in the timing or magnitude of the cash flows of NTIRR can be measured from either an economic value-based or an asset, liability or off-balance sheet instrument.
This risk primarily earnings-based perspective or both.
Value-based approaches measure arises in the US mortgage business in Citizens Financial Group the change in value of the balance sheet assets and liabilities over a where long-term fixed-rate loans are the norm and prepayment longer timeframe, including all cash flows.
Earnings-based approaches penalties are rare.
measure the potential short-term generally one year impact on the income statement of charges in interest rates.
334 Business review Risk and balance sheet management The Group uses both approaches to quantify its interest rate risk: VaR as Value-at-risk its value-based approach and sensitivity of net interest income NII as its The Groups standard VaR metrics - which assume a time horizon of one earnings-based approach.
trading day and a confidence level of 99% - are based on interest rate repricing gaps at the reporting date.
Daily rate moves are modelled using These two approaches provide different yet complementary views of the observations over the last 500 business days.
These incorporate impact of interest rate risk on the balance sheet at a point in time.
The customer products plus associated funding and hedging transactions as scenarios employed in the NII sensitivity approach incorporate business well as non-financial assets and liabilities such as property, plant and assumptions and simulated modifications in customer behaviour as equipment, capital and reserves.
Behavioural assumptions are applied as interest rates change.
In contrast, the VaR approach assumes static appropriate.
underlying positions and therefore does not provide a dynamic measurement of interest rate risk.
In addition, while the NII sensitivity The table below shows the NTIRR VaR for the Groups retail and calculations are measured to a 12-month horizon and thus provide a commercial banking activities at a 99% confidence level together with a shorter-term view of the risks on the balance sheet, the VaR approach currency analysis of period end VaR.
can identify risks not captured in the sensitivity analysis, in particular the impact of duration and repricing risk on earnings beyond 12 months.
Average Period end Maximum Minimum m m m m 2013 45 51 57 30 2012 46 21 65 20 2011 63 51 80 44 2013 2012 2011 m m m Euro 4 19 26 Sterling 19 17 57 US dollar 44 15 61 Other 2 4 5 Key points Sensitivity of net interest income Period end interest rate VaR was higher at 31 December 2013 than To analyse earnings sensitivities, forecasts are generated using implied at 31 December 2012.
Average VaR was relatively unchanged.
forward rates, projected new business volumes, mix and pricing generated using business assumptions.
Based on the balance sheet at The overall year-on-year increase in VaR mainly reflected an the most recent month end, two NII forecasts are calculated each month: increase in the duration of the Groups balance sheet - that is, i a forecast for the current full year, which incorporates actuals on a greater economic exposure to longer-term interest rates - as monthly basis as the year progresses: and ii a base-case 12 month described in more detail below.
Euro VaR fell, reflecting action taken to reduce the Groups In addition, the 12 month rolling forecast is re-run using alternative rates exposure to euro-denominated fixed-rate assets.
under various scenarios, incorporating changes in customer behaviour and business assumptions as appropriate.
Variances between these US dollar VaR rose, reflecting action taken by US Retail & scenarios are analysed to identify key drivers.
These forecasts and Commercial to reduce earnings sensitivity to movements in short sensitivities form part of the information used by senior management to term dollar interest rates.
manage the Group's NII targets.
These movements remained well within the Groups approved This sensitivity analysis also incorporates assumptions relating to market risk appetite.
335 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Market risk continued The scenarios represent annualised interest rate stresses of a scale Non-traded market risk continued deemed sufficient to trigger a modification in customer behaviour.
The The following table shows the sensitivity of net interest income, over the asymmetry in the steepening and flattening scenarios reflects the next 12 months, to an immediate upward or downward change of 100 difference in the expected behaviour of interest rates as they approach basis points to all interest rates.
In addition, the table includes the impact zero.
of a gradual 400 basis point steepening bear steepener and a gradual 300 basis point flattening bull flattener of the yield curve for tenors The reported sensitivities will vary over time due to a number of factors greater than a year.
such as market conditions and strategic changes to the balance sheet mix and should not therefore be considered predictive of future performance.
Euro Sterling US dollar Other Total 2013 m m m m m 100 basis point shift in yield curves 59 416 175 31 681 100 basis point shift in yield curves 29 333 82 15 459 Bear steepener 403 Bull flattener 273 2012 100 basis point shift in yield curves 29 472 119 27 589 100 basis point shift in yield curves 20 257 29 11 317 Bear steepener 216 Bull flattener 77 2011 100 basis point shift in yield curves 19 190 59 14 244 100 basis point shift in yield curves 25 188 4 16 183 Bear steepener 443 Bull flattener 146 Key points Structural hedging The Group's interest rate exposure remains asset sensitive, such Banks generally have the benefit of a significant pool of stable, non and that rising rates will have a positive impact on its net interest income.
low interest bearing liabilities, principally comprising equity and money transmission accounts.
These balances are usually hedged, either by The Groups increased sensitivity to parallel shifts in the yield curve investing directly in longer-term fixed rate assets or by the use of interest over a 12 month horizon primarily reflects the higher volume of rate swaps, in order to provide a consistent and predictable revenue structural hedges maturing in 2014 relative to 2013.
maturity profile of legacy hedges.
If rates were to rise, these would be reinvested at higher rates, with an upward impact on net interest The Group targets a weighted average life for these economic hedges.
This increased sensitivity also reflects changes in This is accomplished using a continuous rolling maturity programme to underlying pricing assumptions for customer loans and deposits.
achieve the desired profile and is primarily managed by Group Treasury.
The maturity profile of the hedge aims to reduce the potential sensitivity The increased sensitivity to the steepening and flattening scenarios of income to rate movements.
The structural hedging programme is is also primarily driven by the maturity profile of structural hedges.
Group wide, capturing the position within the UK banking group and regulated subsidiaries in other jurisdictions.
336 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Product hedging The table below shows the element of net interest income associated Product structural hedges are used to minimise the volatility on earnings with product hedges managed by Group Treasury, relating to the main related to specific products, primarily money transmission accounts.
UK banking divisions, except Wealth.
The amount represents the incremental contribution of the hedge relative to LIBOR cash rates.
2013 2012 Net interest income m m Product hedges UK Retail 306 359 UK Corporate 206 214 International Banking 73 83 Total product hedges 585 656 Key point The yield on product structural hedges declined in 2013 due to the low interest rate environment as maturing hedges were reinvested at lower interest rates.
Equity hedging Equity structural hedges are used to minimise the impact of earnings volatility on equity.
These hedges contributed 0.8 billion to the UK banking divisions in 2013 2012 - 0.8 billion, which is an incremental benefit relative to LIBOR cash rates.
Foreign exchange risk The table below shows the Groups structural foreign currency exposures.
unaudited 337 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Market risk continued Non-traded market risk continued Key points Net investment hedges were reduced broadly in line with the The Groups structural foreign currency exposure at 31 December reduction in net investments.
2013 was 21.7 billion and 15.6 billion before and after economic hedges, respectively, both 2.3 billion lower than at 31 December Economic hedges remained broadly unchanged.
Movements in structural foreign currency exposure are significantly driven by movements in net assets of overseas Changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect equity in operations.
proportion to structural foreign currency exposure.
A 5% strengthening in foreign currencies against sterling would result in a Net assets of overseas operations declined by 4.0 billion largely gain of 1.1 billion in equity 2012 and 2011 - 1.3 billion, while a due to increased impairments in Ulster Bank Group and capital 5% weakening would result in a loss of 1 billion in equity 2012 and restructuring in US Retail & Commercial.
contributed approximately 0.5 billion to the reduction.
Equity risk Equity positions are carried at fair value on the balance sheet based on available market prices where possible.
In the event that market prices are not available, fair value is based on appropriate valuation techniques or management estimates.
Refer to the table below for the balance sheet carrying value of the Groups non-traded book equity positions.
2013 2012 2011 m m m Exchange-traded equity 368 472 576 Private equity 621 632 674 Other 623 799 1,094 1,612 1,903 2,344 The exposures may take the form of listed and unlisted equity shares, linked equity fund investments, private equity and venture capital investments, preference shares classified as equity or Federal Home Loan Bank stock.
Refer to the table below for the net realised and unrealised gains from these positions: 2013 2012 2011 m m m Net realised gains arising from disposals 48 89 150 Unrealised gains included in Tier 1 or 2 capital 232 168 235 Note: 1 Includes gains or losses on available-for-sale instruments only.
Cumulative gains on equity securities designated at fair value through profit or loss but not held for trading purposes were 96 million for December 2013 2012 - cumulative gains of 184 million.
338 Business review Risk and balance sheet management VaR for selected AFS non-trading portfolios Available-for-sale portfolios in Markets and Non-Core, other than the structured credit portfolio, do not typically form part of the structural interest rate framework due to the short-term nature of the interest rate risks they carry.
They are thus monitored and managed through the same framework and using the same metrics as portfolios in the trading book.
The table below details VaR for these portfolios.
2 The table above excludes the structured credit portfolio and loans and receivables.
Key point The total, Core and credit spread period end VaR were lower in 2013 than in 2012.
VaR initially increased in Q1 2013 reflecting changes to the call assumptions on some Dutch residential mortgage-backed securities, thereby extending their weighted average life.
This increase was offset during Q3 as the issuer bought back some of these securities, resulting in a net decrease in VaR for the year as a whole.
The Non-Core period end and average VaR were lower in 2013 than in 2012.
VaR steadily declined during 2013, due to fide-risking and divestment within Non-Core.
339 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Market risk continued Non-traded market risk continued Structured credit portfolio The structured credit portfolio is held in Non-Core.
The risk in this portfolio is not managed using VaR because the Group believes this is not an appropriate tool for a non-trading book portfolio comprising illiquid debt securities.
These assets are reported on a drawn notional and fair value basis, and managed on a third-party asset and risk-weighted assets basis.
Drawn notional represents the amount of cash granted against debt securities received as part of a structured credit transaction.
The table below shows the open market risk in the structured credit portfolio.
Key point The total notional and fair value both decreased 67%, to 664 million and 480 million respectively.
This was driven by the sale of underlying assets across all categories, in line with Non-Core strategy.
Regulatory capital The Group holds capital for two types of non-traded market risk Pillar 1 capital must be held for non-trading book foreign exchange exposures: NTIRR and non-trading book foreign exchange.
exposures, as outlined under BIPRU 7.5.
The Group does not hold capital for its structural foreign exchange exposures as these are Capital for the Groups NTIRR is captured under the Pillar 2A process.
excluded from the calculations as outlined under BIPRU 7.5.
This is calculated by considering the potential impact on the economic value of the Group over a one year horizon.
The four main sources of The Groups non-traded equity risk is captured in credit risk RWAs.
NTIRR - repricing, yield curve, basis and optionality risks - are captured in the calculation.
The Groups capital calculations under ICAAP are also used for economic capital purposes.
340 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Country risk 342 Definition 342 External environment 342 Outlook 342 Sources of risk 342 Governance 343 Risk management 343 Risk measurement 343 Risk mitigation 344 Basis of reporting 344 Definitions 345 Country exposure 341 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Country risk Outlook Definition Further strengthening of economic growth in advanced economies is Country risk is the risk of losses occurring as a result of either a country likely in 2014, but uncertainty over the impact of tapering is likely to event or unfavourable country operating conditions.
As country events contribute to further volatility in asset prices across most regions.
The US may simultaneously affect all or many individual exposures to a country, is expected to perform quite strongly, with the eurozone also likely to country event risk is a concentration risk.
For other types of concentration continue its uneven recovery, although in both cases key areas of the risks such as product, sector or single name concentration, refer to the economy will remain fragile.
A more challenging year for emerging Credit risk section.
economies is expected as net capital inflows decline, resulting in more pronounced market volatility and differentiation.
Further policy tightening External environment is likely and growth rates are set to slow, especially in the weakest Macroeconomic conditions stabilised in 2013 with signs of improvement markets.
The US showed the strongest improvement, with private investment picking up, the housing sector continuing to Sources of risk strengthen, and unemployment falling.
This led the Federal Reserve to Country risk has the potential to affect all parts of the Groups portfolio announce in May plans to begin normalising monetary policy.
In across wholesale and retail activities that are directly or indirectly linked December it announced it would start reducing quantitative easing.
This to the country in question.
resulted in some volatility in higher-yield asset markets, particularly emerging markets, where those with the largest external financing needs It arises from possible economic or political events in each country to saw capital outflows, currency depreciation and stock market losses.
which the Group has exposure, and from unfavourable conditions affecting daily operations in a country.
In the second half of the year, investor concerns were heightened by the risk that the US federal debt ceiling increase would not be passed on time Country events may include a sovereign default, political conflict, banking and that the government might delay debt payments.
Short-term political crisis or deep and prolonged recession leading to possible counterparty solutions to these issues were found, though with further progress defaults.
Transfer or convertibility restrictions imposed by a countrys needed in 2014. government to stem the loss of foreign currency reserves may temporarily prevent counterparties from meeting their payment The eurozone region as a whole remained in recession throughout the obligations.
Major currency depreciation may also affect a customers year, but signs of recovery were evident by the second half of the year.
income or debt burden, leading to default.
Germany led, but the periphery also showed notable signs of stabilisation, with Ireland, Spain and Portugal all growing in  operating conditions may include the risk that a weak or quarter terms in the last quarter of 2013.
Eurozone monetary policy creditor unfriendly legal system within a country makes it difficult for the support underpinned investor confidence, while progress was made in Group to recover its claims in the event of customer default.
An unreliable developing a banking union that should reduce the risk of a repeat of the or unstable political system may lead to sudden compliance or financial crisis over the longer term.
Nevertheless, France and Italy reputational issues for the Group, or even expropriation without proper underperformed peers.
In Japan, an economic reform strategy combined with large monetary Governance stimulus contributed to currency depreciation, a reduction in deflationary The Groups country risk framework is set by the Executive Risk Forum expectations and strong growth in the first half of the year.
This body delegates authority to the Group Country Risk momentum slowed in the second half of the year.
Committee GCRC to decide on country risk matters, including risk Many emerging market economies entered 2013 with high growth rates.
appetite, risk management strategy and framework, risk exposure and While most were in substantially better shape than in previous crises, policy, as well as sovereign ratings, sovereign loss given default rates some had built up significant imbalances during years of strong capital and country Watchlist colours.
The GCRC, which is chaired by the Head inflows.
As economic conditions in mature markets, particularly the US, of Global Country Risk GCoR and includes representatives of divisions improved in the course of the year, markets began to anticipate that with country risk exposures, can escalate issues when necessary to the monetary policies would normalise.
This led to a sharp round of capital outflows, particularly from equity For further information on governance, refer to the Risk governance markets, in the second quarter of 2013.
Currency depreciations in a section on page 175. number of large emerging economies followed, especially in those with significant current account deficits.
Among the better rated economies, India, Brazil, Indonesia, South Africa and Turkey, were particularly affected.
To stem the outflow of foreign capital and limit the impact on domestic asset markets, some countries, including India, started tightening monetary policy and accelerated financial sector reforms.
Some countries with sizeable accumulated reserve assets, including China and Russia, were able to use their reserves to ease the pressure on their currencies.
unaudited 342 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Risk management Detailed portfolio reviews are conducted to ensure that country portfolio Risk appetite setting compositions remain aligned with the Groups country risk appetite, in Country risk appetite was re-set for all countries based on the enhanced light of economic and political developments.
country risk appetite framework, introduced in late 2012.
This framework has top-down and bottom-up components.
Changes in sovereign ratings or country Watchlist status trigger review of appetite and are referred to GCRC for discussion.
The top-down component is guided by the Groups global risk appetite: each countrys internal sovereign rating and its strategic importance to Risk measurement the Group: the composition of the Groups portfolio, as defined by tenors In this section, country exposure includes wholesale and retail onand clients: the funding profile and an assessment of the potential for balance sheet exposure drawn amounts under lending facilities, mark-tolosses arising from possible key country risk events.
This component market derivatives positions and issuer-risk debt securities positions in provides a clear structure for the consideration of downside scenarios, the banking book and trading book together with off-balance sheet the identification of countries that pose material concentration risks to the exposure contingent obligations and undrawn commitments.
Group, as well as possible management actions.
The scope of this country exposure concept is broader than the scope of Bottom-up analysis includes risk return performance together with the credit risk assets concept used in the Credit risk section, as the latter reputational and regulatory risk.
does not include debt securities or securities financing transactions.
Countries Watchlisted Amber refer to Risk monitoring, reporting and The Group also estimates its funding mismatches at risk of control below are monitored closely.
Appetite for countries Watchlisted redenomination in vulnerable eurozone countries.
These mismatches are Red is limited to short-term business in areas such as trade finance and estimated in terms of potential for additional loss rather than amounts derivatives, unless the country is deemed a strategic priority country.
owed and are thus determined starting from the balance sheet exposure as defined on page 344 and excluding relevant offsetting positions.
The The actual country limits and medium-term sub-limits, with allocations to latter include exposures at low risk of redenomination, as identified each division, are set by the GCRC or the ERF above certain benchmark through consideration of the relevant documentation, particularly the levels.
The divisions manage their exposures within their country limit currency of exposure, governing law, court of jurisdiction, precise allocations.
Divisions may agree re-allocations between themselves, and definition of the contract currency for euro facilities, and location of may further assign sub-allocations to business units or product groups in payment.
The Group also deducts offsets for provisions taken and the division.
liabilities that would be expected to re-denominate at the same time.
Country limits are set for almost all countries.
The UK and related Risk mitigation European special territories of Guernsey, Jersey, the Isle of Man and Part of the Groups exposure is mitigated by guarantors or insurers Gibraltar is an exception, given its home country status.
The US is the including export credit agencies, credit default swap CDS protection other exception because of the specific local risk management structure, providers, or cash or non-cash collateral such as commercial or the size of the local portfolio and corresponding role in Group-wide risk residential real estate in third countries, which will not be directly affected management, together with the country's strong ratings.
by a country event in the obligors country.
For further details on credit mitigation instruments, refer to the Credit risk section.
Risk monitoring, reporting and control GCoR monitors and reports on Group-level exposures to all countries, CDS contracts are used by the Group to hedge either entire portfolios or and follows up with the divisions in the event of Group-level or divisional specific individual exposures.
These transactions are subject to regular limit excesses.
GCoR has delegated authority up to specified levels to margining, which usually takes the form of cash collateral.
For European decide on country limit increases and any such decision must be reported peripheral sovereigns, credit protection is purchased from a number of to the GCRC.
Persistent excesses are escalated to the GCRC.
major European banks, mostly outside the country of the reference entity.
In a few cases where protection was bought from banks in the country of A country risk Watchlist process identifies emerging issues and facilitates the reference entity, giving rise to wrong-way risk, this risk is mitigated the development of mitigation strategies.
Coverage of the country through specific collateralisation and monitored weekly.
Watchlist process was extended in 2013 to include all countries to which the Group has exposure.
A monthly report that summarises and discusses the Groups key country risks and trends is produced for the Group Board.
unaudited 343 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Country risk continued Securities financing transactions SFT net - Comprise the mtm value of Basis of reporting the cash and securities that are due to the Group at a future date under The tables in this section show the Groups exposure at 31 December repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, stock 2013, 2012 and 2011.
The numbers are reported by country of operation borrowing, stock lending and equity financing transactions, after the effect of the obligor, except exposures to governments and individuals which of collateral intrinsic to the transaction and legally enforceable netting are shown by country of residence.
Counterparty netting is applied as per the corresponding regulatory capital approach.
Additional collateral called to offset mtm The country of operation is the country where the main operating assets positions variation margin is not included.
of a legal entity are held, or where its main cash flows are generated, taking account of the entitys dependency on subsidiaries' activities.
In addition and as memorandum items, the tables show derivatives gross Previously, exposures in this section were reported by country of of netting, and SFT gross of netting and collateral intrinsic to the incorporation.
The new basis provides a better reflection of the country transaction.
risks taken by the Group and is more in line with internal risk management.
Prior years information has been revised.
Balance sheet - Comprises lending, debt securities, derivatives net and SFT net exposures, as defined above.
Countries shown are those which had ratings of A or below from Standard and Poors, Moodys or Fitch at 31 December 2013, where the Off-balance sheet - Comprises letters of credit, guarantees, other Groups balance sheet exposure as defined in this section to contingent obligations and legally committed undrawn facilities.
counterparties operating or individuals residing in them exceeded 1.0 billion.
Also included are selected eurozone countries.
Total - Comprises balance sheet and off-balance sheet exposure, as defined above.
The exposures are stated before taking into account risk mitigants such as guarantees, insurance or collateral with the exception of reverse Credit default swaps CDSs - Under a CDS contract, the credit risk on repos which may have been put in place to reduce or eliminate exposure the reference entity is transferred from the buyer to the seller.
The to country risk events.
The tables do separately show the Groups CDS column fair value or mtm value represents the balance sheet carrying positions, as the Group may be either a net buyer or a net seller of value of the resulting exposure.
The mtm value of CDSs is included in protection.
The CDS positions for 2013 and 2012 are by country of derivatives against the counterparty of the trade, as opposed to the operation, those for 2011 are by country of incorporation.
The notional is the par value of the credit protection bought or sold and is included against the reference entity of the CDS Exposures relating to ocean-going vessels are not included as they contract.
cannot be meaningfully assigned to specific countries from a country risk perspective.
The column CDS notional less fair value represents the net effect on exposure should the CDS contracts be triggered by a credit event, Definitions assuming a zero recovery rate on the reference exposure.
This net effect Lending - Comprises gross loans and advances, including cash balances would be the increase in exposure arising from sold positions netted and risk elements in lending REIL - refer to page 554 for definition.
against the decrease arising from bought positions.
For a sold position, the change in exposure equals the notional less the fair value amount: Debt securities - Comprise securities classified as available-for-sale this represents the amount the Group would owe to its CDS AFS, loans and receivables LAR, held-for-trading HFT and counterparties if the reference entity defaulted.
Positive recovery rates designated as at fair value through profit or loss DFV.
All debt securities would tend to reduce the gross components increases and decreases of other than LAR securities are carried at fair value.
LAR debt securities those numbers.
are carried at amortised cost less impairment.
HFT debt securities are Exposures relating to credit derivative product companies and related presented as gross long positions including DFV securities and short hedges as well as Nth-to-default basket swaps have been excluded, as positions per country.
Impairment losses and exchange differences they cannot be meaningfully attributed to a particular reference entity or relating to AFS debt securities, together with interest, are recognised in country.
Exposures to CDPCs are disclosed on page 299. the income statement.
Other changes in the fair value of AFS securities are reported in AFS reserves, which are presented gross of tax.
Government - Comprises central, regional and local government.
Eurozone periphery - Ireland, Spain, Italy, Portugal, Greece and Cyprus.
Derivatives net - Comprise the mark-to-market mtm value of such contracts after the effect of legally enforceable netting agreements in line Other eurozone - Austria, Estonia, Finland, Malta, Slovakia and Slovenia.
with the corresponding regulatory capital models, but before the effect of collateral.
Asset quality AQ - Refer to Asset quality on page 236.
Refer to page 293 for country analysis of equity shares.
Banking primarily trade facilities, other lending and off-balance sheet exposure to corporates and financial institutions : Markets Balance sheet and off-balance sheet exposures to nearly all principally derivatives and securities financing transactions with countries declined across all broad product categories.
This was financial institutions, and HFT debt securities : Ulster Bank mostly because the Group maintained a cautious stance and many clients lending to consumers and corporates in Ireland : and Group reduced debt levels.
Non-Core lending declined in most countries, Treasury largely cash balances at central banks and AFS debt particularly in Spain, the Netherlands, France and Romania, securities including Spanish cedulas.
reflecting the Groups risk reduction strategy.
Total eurozone - balance sheet exposure declined by 49.2 billion or 30% to 114.2 billion, caused mostly by significant reductions in liquidity held with the Bundesbank and in derivatives exposure to banks.
Most of the latter reductions related to counterparties in the Netherlands, Germany and France, and were largely due to the sale of a part of the Groups CDS positions.
unaudited 347 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Country risk continued Country exposure continued Eurozone periphery - despite the appreciation of the euro against Netherlands - balance sheet exposure decreased from 23.6 billion sterling, balance sheet exposure decreased to 52.9 billion, a to 16.1 billion.
AFS debt securities issued by non-bank financial reduction of 6.6 billion or 11%, in nearly all countries, as follows: institutions declined by 2.8 billion, primarily following repayments.
Corporate lending decreased by 0.8 billion, primarily in commercial Ireland - exposure decreased by 2.1 billion to 37.0 billion, in real estate.
Off-balance sheet exposure to corporate clients all broad product categories.
Residential and commercial real decreased by 1.1 billion, mainly in the telecommunications, retail estate lending declined slightly to 16.9 billion and 10.3 and food and consumer sectors.
Provisions increased by 2.8 billion, most of which related to corporate lending.
France - balance sheet exposure decreased from 19.7 billion to 14.0 billion.
The net long HFT position in government bonds Spain - Group Treasurys holdings of covered bonds cedulas declined by 1.9 billion in the course of normal trading in the rates decreased by 0.7 billion due to sales in improved market business.
Corporate lending decreased by 1.3 billion to 2.9 billion, with commercial real estate lending more than halving, Japan - balance sheet exposure decreased by 6.0 billion to 5.3 largely as a result of disposals in Non-Core, to 0.8 billion.
Net HFT and AFS government bonds fell by 5.1 billion and 1.5 billion, respectively, and derivatives exposure, largely to banks, Italy - the 1.3 billion decrease in exposure to 5.2 billion decreased by 0.5 billion.
This reflected depreciation of the yen, reflected reductions in lending and derivatives to corporate lower trading flows and a reduction in Japanese bonds held as clients.
Net HFT debt exposure fluctuates as the Group is a derivatives collateral.
Lending to the central bank increased by 0.8 market-maker in Italian government bonds.
exposure to corporates and non-bank financial institutions also declined, by 0.7 billion.
China - lending to banks increased by 1.8 billion to 2.8 billion.
Corporate lending rose by 0.5 billion to 1.5 billion, reflecting Portugal - exposure declined further by 0.4 billion to 0.9 customer demand.
Derivatives exposure to public sector entities billion.
The remaining exposure mainly consisted of corporate decreased by 0.5 billion to 0.4 billion owing to fluctuations in lending to a few large highly creditworthy clients and short-term hedging by clients.
collateralised derivatives trading with the largest local banks.
India - balance sheet exposure decreased by 1.3 billion to 3.8 Greece - exposure decreased by 0.2 billion to 0.4 billion, billion, driven largely by reductions in lending to banks and to the caused by reductions in lending and derivatives.
The telecommunications and oil and gas sectors.
remaining exposure comprised mostly of collateralised derivatives exposure to banks and corporate lending, including CDS positions - the Group approximately halved its European CDS exposure to local subsidiaries of international companies.
positions by consolidating its derivatives portfolio through contract terminations to reduce risks and capital requirements in line with Cyprus - exposure increased slightly to 0.2 billion, most of strategic plans, while maturities reduced the positions further.
This which was covered by parental and export credit agency resulted in major reductions in the gross notional value of CDS guarantees from elsewhere.
Net bought protection in terms of CDS notional less fair value, also fell by 1.2 billion to 5.6 billion, with Germany - balance sheet exposure decreased from 48.4 billion to reductions particularly in the Netherlands and France.
23.9 billion principally owing to a 16.4 billion reduction in cash balances held with the central bank.
AFS government bonds Funding mismatches - the estimated funding mismatch at risk of decreased by 4.1 billion in line with treasury management redenomination for Ireland was 6.5 billion at the end of the year, strategies.
Lending to corporate clients decreased by 1.1 billion, falling from 9.0 billion a year before due to an increase in principally in the commercial real estate, oil and gas, and media provisions and a reduction in assets.
The mismatch for Spain was sectors.
6.5 billion, up from 4.5 billion as the Group reduced its local funding and associated cost given the improved outlook for the country.
The net position for Italy fell to 0.5 billion from 1.0 billion.
The net positions for Portugal, Greece and Cyprus were all minimal.
towards its customers, or in the markets in which it operates, leads to reputational damage or financial loss or both.
The damage or loss could Placing conduct risk at the centre of the Groups philosophy promotes a be as a result of breaches of regulatory rules or laws, or of failing to meet customer oriented culture that informs and challenges business strategy, customers or regulators expectations of the Group.
delivers fair outcomes, and promotes behaviours consistent with regulatory and legal standards across its retail and wholesale markets.
Sources of risk Activities through which conduct risk may arise include: product design: Throughout 2013, the foundations of the Groups conduct risk framework marketing and sales: complaint handling: staff training and competence: continued to be delivered.
Key milestones included: and handling of confidential and non-public price sensitive information.
The completion of the phased roll-out of the Groups conduct risk Governance structure policies, using policy chapters to explain Group-wide conduct Effective conduct risk management is a commercial imperative for the responsibilities: Group: customers, clients and counterparties demand it as a precursor to building trust.
It also reflects the developing regulatory environment in the The development and delivery of awareness initiatives and targeted UK, with the establishment of the Financial Conduct Authority, and the conduct risk training for each policy to assist businesses and increasing focus of overseas regulators on conduct risk.
executives in embedding the understanding of conduct risk, and to provide the necessary clarity for staff on their conduct risk The Groups compliance functions are responsible for the appropriate requirements: management of conduct risk, including Anti-Money Laundering AML : Sanctions and Terrorist Financing STF : and Anti-Bribery and Corruption Completion of Group-wide gap analysis and benchmarking exercise ABC.
In doing so, they design, implement and maintain a management with respect to each of the conduct risk policy chapters, recording framework, the objective of which is the consistent identification, identified issues and developing and implementing remediation assessment, monitoring, and reporting of conduct risk.
plans: A conduct risk governance structure, within which all divisions are Establishing a central assurance function in Group Conduct and represented by senior business leaders, provides clarity on roles, Regulatory Affairs, covering all elements of the Groups conduct risk responsibilities and accountabilities for conduct risk.
Key elements of the policies, including AML, STF and ABC: and governance structure are set out below.
Establishing effective leadership and a supporting governance The Conduct Risk Committee: Operating under delegated authority from framework, with the participation of all divisions, to oversee the the Executive Risk Forum ERF, it has responsibility for the governance, Groups conduct agenda.
leadership and strategic oversight of the Group-wide conduct agenda.
It can escalate significant issues to the ERF and the Board Risk In 2013, the Group continued to focus on strengthening the capabilities of Committee.
Refer to page 176. its compliance functions, at both Group and divisional level through investment in training.
To do so, it facilitated training on conduct risk, The Compliance Management Team: a sub-committee of the Conduct primarily through computer-based Group Policy Learning modules.
Each Risk Committee, it has the authority to act on conduct risk matters such module addresses the regulatory content of relevant Group Policy as: risk appetite: risk management strategy and framework: and risk Standards.
The Board receives updates on conduct risk via monthly risk reports.
unaudited 355 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Other risks continued The Pension Risk Committee, acting as a sub-committee of the Group Conduct risk continued Asset and Liability Management Committee GALCO, considers the Risk mitigation Groups view of pension risk.
The Pension Risk Committee considers Assurance and monitoring activities are essential to ensure that the mechanisms that could potentially be used for managing risk within the Group can demonstrate compliance with existing rules and regulations, funds as well as financial strategy and employee welfare implications, It assess whether it is managing its conduct risks appropriately, and also reviews actuarial assumptions from a sponsor perspective as determine whether key controls are effective.
In 2013, the Group Conduct appropriate.
The Pension Risk Committee is a key component of pension and Regulatory Affairs assurance function provided Group-wide risk management and serves as a formal link between the Group and the assurance over specific compliance topics, as well as thematic process Investment Executive, which acts on behalf of the trustee of the Groups reviews.
largest pension schemes, where risk management, asset strategy and financing issues are discussed.
The Investment Executive also consults Pension risk with the Group to obtain its view on the appropriate level of risk within the Definition pension fund.
Pension risk is the risk arising from contractual or other liabilities to, or with respect to, the Groups pension schemes, whether established for its For further information on the Groups risk governance, see page 176. employees or for those of a related company or otherwise.
It also means the risk that the Group may make payments or other contributions to, or Risk management with respect to, a pension scheme because of a moral obligation, or Risk appetite and investment policy for the schemes are defined by the because it considers that it needs to do so for some other reason.
trustee with quantitative and qualitative input from actuaries and investment advisers.
Sources of risk The Group has exposure to pension risk through its defined benefit As the sponsor of its defined benefit pension schemes, the Group schemes worldwide.
The five largest schemes, which represent around manages the risk it faces using a pension risk management framework.
96% of the Groups pension liabilities, are the Royal Bank of Scotland This encompasses risk monitoring, modelling, stress testing and Group Pension Fund main scheme, the Ulster Bank Pension Scheme reporting.
As sponsor, the Group maintains an independent view of the Republic of Ireland, the Ulster Bank Pension Scheme, the Royal Bank risk inherent in its pension funds.
In addition to the scrutiny provided by of Scotland Americas Pension Plan and the Royal Bank of Scotland the Pension Risk Committee, the Group also achieves this through International Pension Trust.
The main scheme is the principal source of regular pension risk monitoring and reporting to the Group Board, Group pension risk.
Executive Committee and Group Board Risk Committee on the material pension schemes that the Group has an obligation to support.
Pension scheme liabilities vary with changes in long-term interest rates and inflation as well as with pensionable salaries, the longevity of scheme Risk measurement members and changes in legislation.
Meanwhile, pension scheme assets Pension risk reporting is submitted to the Group Board monthly in the vary with changes in interest rates, inflation expectations, credit spreads, RBS Risk Management Report.
The report includes an assessment of exchange rates and equity and property prices.
The Group is exposed to the sensitivities of the Groups pension schemes to interest rates and the risk that the market value of the schemes assets - together with inflation, a breakdown of the assets by class, and measurement of the future returns and any additional future contributions - becomes overall deficit or surplus position based on the latest data.
insufficient to meet liabilities as they fall due.
In such circumstances, the Group could be obliged or may choose to make additional contributions Throughout 2013, various pension risk stress-testing initiatives were to the schemes or be required to hold additional capital to mitigate this undertaken, focused both on internally defined scenarios and on risk.
scenarios to meet integrated PRA stress testing requirements.
Governance Risk mitigation The main scheme operates under a trust deed.
The trustee is responsible The trustee has taken measures partially to mitigate inflation and interest for the investment of the main schemes assets which are held separately rate risks both by investing in suitable physical assets and by entering from the assets of the Group.
The Group and the trustee must agree on into inflation and interest rate swaps.
The main scheme also uses the plan to fund the main scheme.
The corporate trustee, RBS Pension derivatives to manage the allocation of the portfolio to different asset Trustee Limited, is a wholly owned subsidiary of The Royal Bank of classes and to manage risk within asset classes.
The assets of the main Scotland plc.
The trustee board currently comprises six directors selected scheme, which represent 85% of Group pension plan assets at 31 by the Group and three directors nominated by members.
December 2013, are invested in a diversified portfolio of quoted and private equity, government and corporate fixed interest and index-linked bonds, and other assets including property and hedge funds.
unaudited 356 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Risk is also mitigated in other ways.
In October 2006, the main scheme In October 2012, the Group confirmed that it was offering employees the was closed to new employees.
In November 2009, the Group confirmed choice between an increase to the charge made through its flexible that it was making changes to the main scheme and a number of other benefits programme for membership of the main scheme by 5% of defined benefit schemes including the introduction of a limit of 2% per salaries or an increase in their Normal Pension Age from 60 to 65 in annum or the annual change in the Consumer Price Index, if lower to respect of service from October 2012 with no additional charge.
the amount of any salary increase that will count for pensionable purposes.
The table below shows the sensitivity of the Main schemes assets and liabilities measured according to IAS 19 Employee Benefits to changes in interest rates and equity values at the year end, taking account of the current asset allocation and hedging arrangements.
Change Change Increase in net in value in value of pension of assets liabilities obligations m m m At 31 December 2013 Fall in nominal swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or real swap yields 217 333 116 Fall in real swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or nominal swap yields 595 895 300 Fall in credit spreads of 0.25% at all durations with no change in nominal or real swap yields 60 1,245 1,185 Fall in equity values of 10% 894 894 At 31 December 2012 Fall in nominal swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or real swap yields 76 255 179 Fall in real swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or nominal swap yields 578 995 417 Fall in credit spreads of 0.25% at all durations with no change in nominal or real swap yields 71 1,261 1,190 Fall in equity values of 10% 862 862 At 31 December 2011 Fall in nominal swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or real swap yields 106 200 94 Fall in real swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or nominal swap yields 557 911 354 Fall in credit spreads of 0.25% at all durations with no change in nominal or real swap yields 104 1,118 1,014 Fall in equity values of 10% 935 935 unaudited 357 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Other risks continued The objective of operational risk management is not to remove Operational risk operational risk altogether, but to manage it to an acceptable level, taking Definition into account the cost of minimising the risk against the resultant reduction Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed in exposure.
Strategies to manage operational risk include avoidance, internal processes, people and systems, or external events.
transfer, acceptance and mitigation by controls.
It arises from day-today operations and is relevant to every aspect of the The operational risk cycle comprises four stages: Groups business.
Identification of risks Sources of risk Operational risk may arise from a failure to manage appropriately the Assessment or measurement of the scale of risks Group's operations, transactions and security.
It may arise from other forms of human error, an inability to deliver change on time or Management or control of risks to prevent their recurrence or adequately, or from the unavailability of technology services, or the loss minimise the potential impact of customer data.
It could also result from a liability or a loss arising from a defective transaction.
A failure to take appropriate measures to protect Monitoring and reporting of risks.
assets or to take account of changes in law, are sources of risk.
Fraud and theft are important sources of operational risk, as is the impact of Although the operational risk tools encompass all stages of the risk cycle, natural and man-made disasters.
they can be broadly categorised as follows: Governance structure Identification and assessment The Group operates with an independent Operational Risk Second Line Risk assessments are used to identify and assess material operational of Defence function comprising both a central team and teams based in risks and key controls across all business areas.
To provide a consistent each business.
The function plays a leadership role by providing a categorisation of risks and controls across the Group and to support forward-looking, value-adding capability, working with the business to identification of risk concentrations, all risks and controls are mapped to achieve a robust risk management culture across the bank.
The Group the Group-wide risk taxonomy and the control catalogue.
Head of Operational Risk reports to the Group Chief Risk Officer.
The process is designed to confirm that risks are effectively managed The Operational Risk function is responsible for the design and and prioritised in line with the stated risk appetite.
Controls are tested maintenance of the operational risk framework.
The Operational Risk frequently to verify and validate that they remain fit for purpose and Policy and associated standards are incorporated in the Group Policy operate effectively.
Risk assessments are typically conducted in a Framework and provide direction for the consistent identification, workshop environment, bringing together subject matter experts and key assessment, management, monitoring and reporting of operational risk.
stakeholders from across the divisions and key functions.
The Operational Risk Executive Committee, which is a sub-committee of In 2013, the focus was on the continued implementation and embedding the Group Risk Committee, acts on all operational risk matters.
It is of risk assessments across the Group.
This included the strengthening of responsible for identifying and managing emerging operational risks, and links between risk assessments and other elements of the Group for reviewing and monitoring operational risk profile strategies and operational risk framework.
frameworks across the Group, ensuring they are in line with risk appetite.
New product risk assessment Risk management The Groups new product risk assessment process is used to ensure that Risk appetite risks for all new products and material variations to existing products The Groups operational risk appetite statement is agreed by the Group are adequately identified and assessed before their launch.
It comprises a number of specific measures of risk, including assessment documentation and review includes the requirement to operational risk capital adequacy, earnings volatility based on the demonstrate that the product provides fair outcomes for customers.
relationship between operational risk losses and the Groups estimated The Group New Business Forum reviews and challenges proposed high gross income.
It also includes metrics covering control environment risk products to ensure material risks have been adequately identified performance.
Further refinement of the appetite measure is planned for and assessed so that new products are launched in line with the Groups 2014. risk appetite and strategy.
To confirm that the Group operates within the set risk appetite, the highEnhancements made during 2013 include the introduction of an improved level statement is aligned with the strategic risk objectives of the Group.
product pipeline to provide more detail on product review and sign-off, Group-level measures have been set and cascaded to divisions and and enhanced reporting to the Group New Business Forum to allow supported by additional tolerances and key indicators.
challenges to the risk classification of products assessed as low-risk by divisions.
Operational risk appetite measures and frameworks are reviewed annually at the ERF.
unaudited 358 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Risk measurement Event and loss data management Scenario analysis is used to assess the impact of extreme but plausible Event and loss data management covers a set of standard requirements operational risks.
It provides a forward-looking basis for managing risk for the management of operational risk events and loss data.
It also exposures, with a structured and consistent approach to scenario scoping provides for clear and consistent communication of operational risk and measurement.
In 2013, the portfolio of scenarios was further events that meet defined threshold criteria to the Groups senior enhanced with greater coverage of the material risks to which the Group management.
The Group has continued to focus on the timely and is exposed.
accurate capture of operational risk losses: the use of a single Groupwide repository: and the escalation of material operational risk events.
Scenario analysis is an important component in the operational risk framework, providing senior management with valuable insight into risk All losses and recoveries associated with an operational risk event are exposures that could significantly affect the Groups financial reported based on the date of each financial impact.
A single event can performance or reputation.
Scenarios also provide an important link have multiple losses or recoveries which may take some time to between operational risk management and measurement as a key input crystallise.
Losses and recoveries will also have been booked in 2013 on into the calculation of Economic Capital, and into the Groups stress events which occurred, or were identified in, prior years.
testing and reverse stress testing processes.
Number of events net loss greater than 10,000 At 31 December 2013, four categories accounted for around 90% of all Scenarios are run in a workshop environment, bringing business and risk operational risk events.
These were: i clients, products and business and control experts together, thereby providing a deeper understanding practices: ii execution, delivery and process management: iii fraud: of risk exposures and allowing management to make more informed and iv employment practices and workplace safety.
This proportion was decisions on taking action.
The Group further refined its approach to assessing the impact of the economic cycle on its operational risk losses by specifically assessing the impact of the PRAs published Anchor 5 scenario, which describes the impact of a series of country-specific shocks around the world on expected levels of operational risk losses and capital adequacy requirements for operational risk.
Value of events net loss greater than 10,000 The impact of the PRA Anchor 5 scenario on the Group's operational risk At 31 December 2013, events aligned with clients, products and business capital, as calculated under the standardised approach, was also practices accounted for 99% of the losses compared to 91% in 2012. projected based on the outputs of the Groups stress-testing exercises.
The losses in this category were as a result of new conduct-related Operational risk impacts are also assessed based on additional economic provisions, further increased provisions relating to Payment Protection stress scenarios developed internally.
This is used as part of the overall Insurance, Interest Rate Hedging Products, and regulatory settlements.
stress input to capital planning and ICAAP.
Operational risk is measured utilising a top-down assessment of risk through scenario analysis along with a bottom-up assessment of risk and controls.
Scenario analysis is the frequency and impact assessment of extreme but plausible operational risk exposures, which assess the Groups vulnerability against future unexpected loss.
Scenarios, along with internal and external loss data, are a key input into the capital model and A small number of operational risk events contribute a high percentage of are expected to influence the capital outcome significantly as they drive the total losses.
In 2013, less than 1% of the events contributed around the tail of the severity distribution.
Risk and control assessments examine the financial and non-financial Capital risk impact.
The risk impact is assessed on both an expected and The Group calculates the Pillar 1 capital requirement for operational risk exceptional loss basis for the following 12-month period, and a risk using the standardised approach TSA.
For 2013, the Groups minimum appetite decision made.
Pillar 1 capital requirement was 3.4 billion 2012 - 3.7 billion.
unaudited 359 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Other risks continued Regulatory risk Operational risk continued Definition Monitoring and reporting Regulatory risk is the risk of material loss or liability, legal or regulatory Monitoring and reporting form an integral part of all of the Groups sanctions, or reputational damage, resulting from the failure to comply operational risk management processes, which are designed to ensure with or adequately plan for changes to relevant official sector policy, that risks and issues are identified, escalated and managed on a timely laws, regulations, or major industry standards, in any location in which basis.
Exposures for each division are communicated through monthly the Group operates.
risk and control reports that are discussed at divisional risk committees.
The reports provide detail on the risk exposures and action plans.
In 2013 Sources of risk the linkages between different components of the operational risk The sources of regulatory risk arise from the Groups regulatory, business framework were improved.
This has allowed better aggregation, using or operating environment and from how the Group responds to them.
both qualitative and quantitative inputs from all framework elements to underpin improvements in reporting to senior committees.
Governance structure The Groups Regulatory Affairs team Regulatory Affairs maintains Control Environment Certification well-established policies and supporting processes to ensure timely Control Environment Certification CEC is used by the Group Executive identification of, and effective responses to, changes in official to review and assess its internal control framework.
Members of the requirements affecting the Group.
The function also maintains a senior management team are required to provide a semi-annual structured and open engagement with the Groups regulators.
Regulatory assessment of the robustness of the Groups internal control environment Affairs underpin a range of other policies and processes that address onincluding: going compliance with regulatory obligations refer to the section on Conduct Risk for further information.
Compliance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code: Group Board and Executive Committee oversight of changes to regulatory requirements is supported by a Prudential Regulatory Appropriateness of the risk frameworks, culture and governance Developments Executive Steering Group ESG, which was formed in structures of each division to help ensure the Group operates within early 2010 to provide focus on a range of key regulatory developments risk appetite: and the Groups responses.
Adequacy of reporting on the material risks for the business against The ESG is augmented by more specialised groups which cover appetite: and prudential, wholesale market and retail conduct issues as well as by an RBS Americas regional forum.
These bodies identify and manage Compliance with the Group Policy Framework and key divisional regulatory developments, by cascading information and coordinating and functional policy standards.
Their activity includes: prioritisation, allocation of responsibility, short-term tactical mitigants, longer-term strategic responses, sharing CEC outcomes are reported to the Board, the Group Audit Committee best practice, discussion of policy views, and escalation of the need for and the Board Risk Committee, and shared with external auditors.
Risk mitigation A divisional Heads of Regulatory Developments Committee supports the Where a risk has been deemed to be outside of risk appetite, the maintenance and continuous development of the relevant policy, known business unit must decide whether this is acceptable or not.
Where it is as the Political, Legislative and Regulatory Environment Policy Standard, deemed unacceptable, an action plan to reduce the exposure is prepared and supporting documents, together with associated processes, tools and and is monitored to conclusion through the operational risk issues governance.
It also oversees the Groups regulatory developments management process.
operating framework to ensure it meets the needs of all divisions and functions, as well as the maintenance of the policy known as the Group The objective of the operational risk issues management framework is Relationships with Regulators Policy Standard.
the adoption of a consistent approach to the management of issues and actions to mitigate risks outside appetite.
This element of the operational Similarly, the Regulatory Relations Forum, chaired by Regulatory Affairs, risk framework continues to be enhanced in areas such as analysis of has global coverage with representatives from all divisions and regions.
It common issues on an aggregated basis across the Group to identify facilitates the sharing of key regulatory engagements and trends across emerging trends and improvements to the quality of data captured.
The Group purchases insurance to provide the business with financial In addition, Regulatory Affairs ensures appropriate governance and protection against specific losses and to comply with statutory or reporting of all material regulatory reviews and other regulatory contractual requirements, providing protection against financial loss once developments worldwide to relevant Group committees.
committees include the Group Board, the Group Audit Committee, and the Board Risk Committee.
unaudited 360 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Risk management and measurement Risk mitigation The Group believes that maintaining a strong regulatory risk framework is The early identification and effective management of changes in fundamental to ensuring sustainable growth, rebuilding its reputation and legislation and regulation, as well as other requirements that may affect maintaining stakeholder confidence.
the Group, are critical to the successful mitigation of regulatory risk.
Regulatory Affairs two policies are supported by risk appetite statements All regulatory and compliance changes are managed so as to ensure and by relevant benchmarking activity against the Group's peer banks.
Those assessed as having a High or Medium-High impact are managed especially closely with the aim of These are framed by the Groups stated regulatory risk and compliance mitigating the impact through, for instance, changes to strategy or risk appetite, which says there is no appetite for material or widespread business activities, or external engagement.
breaches of rules, expectations, regulations or laws, individually or in aggregate.
It recognises, however, that genuine errors occur, and so the RBS Regulatory Affairs also communicates information on regulatory Group accepts limited, non material regulatory risk and subsequent loss.
developments and follow-up engagement with client-facing businesses and functions, helping them identify and execute any required mitigating This is reflected in the Political, Legislative and Regulatory Environment changes to strategy or business models.
The key regulatory policies are Policy Standard, which requires that all likely changes in official policy, kept under annual review.
legislation, regulation or other requirements must be identified, and assessed for potential impact, using an internal classification system.
Reputational risk Definition The regulatory risk and compliance risk appetite is also reflected in the Reputational risk is the risk of brand damage and or financial loss owing Group Relationships with Regulators Policy Standard, which states that to a failure to meet stakeholders expectations of the Groups conduct all significant material contacts with regulators must be identified and and performance.
Stakeholders include customers, investors, rating managed effectively and that all information provided to the regulators agencies, employees, suppliers, government, politicians, regulators, must be accurate, consistent and delivered within agreed timescales.
special interest groups, consumer groups, media and the general public.
Brand damage can be detrimental to the business in a number of ways.
It The level of regulatory risk remained high during 2013, as policymakers can hamper efforts to build or sustain business relationships with and regulators continued to strengthen regulation and supervision in customers, affect staff morale, and reduce access to funding sources.
response to the events of 2007 2008.
This can be measured in high levels of interaction with supervisory authorities such as meetings, Sources of risk requests for information, visits and investigations, as well as in policy Reputational risk can arise across a range of actions taken or, in some developments and proposals for new rules.
At 31 December 2013 the cases, not taken by the Group and individuals, as well as its wider Group was managing 45 High Impact regulatory or legislative policy conduct, policies and practices.
initiatives, and a further 63 Medium-High Impact initiatives.
In 2013 as a whole, the Group had also reviewed over 305 consultations in its core Governance structure markets.
The Group Board has the ultimate responsibility for managing the Group's reputation, although all parts of the Group have responsibility for Against the backdrop of intensified regulatory pressure, Regulatory any reputational impact arising from their operations, including Affairs has increased the size of its team, as well as improved and refined relationships with customers.
The Board has set the Groups Purpose, its operating model, tools, systems and processes.
Vision and Values PVV, which outline a desired reputation for the Group to be trusted, respected and valued by our customers, shareholders and A Centres of Excellence model was adopted in July 2013.
brought together divisional and functional resources to manage issues more efficiently, using specialisms in existing teams and managing issues Directors and senior executives are actively engaged in key strategic and cross-divisionally.
transactional decisions that can have a reputational impact, for example Internal communications on regulatory issues were strengthened.
This Key reputational issues associated with the Groups strategic plans involved staff seminars and the publication of key information on internal are discussed at Board level.
websites, including the weekly Regulatory Affairs Flash Report, covering key regulatory developments and supervisory interactions.
The Board Risk Committee BRC oversees reputational issues and is directly engaged in strategic reputational management decisions Quarterly reporting to the Group Audit Committee captures all material e. g. the customer redress policy following the Groups IT incident.
regulatory reviews and investigations as well as other regulatory developments worldwide.
The reporting also tracks the status of, and The Group Sustainability Committee GSC reviews reputational trends in, key regulatory relationships.
issues from a customer or sector perspective.
It is responsible for reviewing the Groups sustainability strategy, values and policies and aligning the Groups approach to environmental, social and unaudited ethical ESE issues.
361 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Other risks continued The monthly risk report to the Group Board contains a view of key risks, Reputational risk continued including a reputational risk impact assessment of each key risk.
In The Boards oversight of reputational issues is supported by structures addition, the divisions report on relevant barometers of reputational risk and committees to ensure that key reputational issues are discussed at and actions to manage reputational events according to the source.
The appropriate levels across the Group: annual Group Sustainability report also covers progress on the Groups sustainability principles.
Each division has reputational filters to provide the first line of defence for sensitive transactions or customers.
Divisions have also Emerging reputational issues are identified and assessed by a dedicated established committees or forums to deliberate on customers, cross-divisional reputational risk working group, and escalated through transactions or issues that may present a reputational risk for the the appropriate governance channels where necessary.
For example, the remit of the International Banking Global Capital & Sighting Committee includes a requirement to assess key Risk mitigation reputational sensitivities associated with client transactions against Several of the Group policies address key sources of reputational risk.
These policies are implemented in accordance with the Group Policy Framework through divisional and functional policy standard owners.
The The ESE risk management function provides guidance and sets effectiveness of these policies within each business unit is reported policy to avoid reputational risk to the bank related to the Groups through the CEC process semi-annually.
Reputational aspects also form business engagements and lending to customers in some sensitive a core part of the RBS conduct risk framework, with a series of enhanced industry sectors, such as mining.
The function is supported by policies being developed in line with the Groups conduct risk appetite.
additional resource in the business divisions.
Business risk The Group Risk Committee GRC reviews reputational issues from Definition an organisational perspective.
Its remit covers material and or Business risk is the risk that the Group suffers losses as a result of enterprise-wide risk and control matters across the Group, including adverse variances in its revenues and or costs related to its business reputational risk, as well as a review of the overall risk culture, plan and strategy.
Such variances may be caused by internal factors capability and commitment across the Group.
such as volatility in pricing, sales volumes, and input costs or external factors such as the Group's exposure to macroeconomic, regulatory and Risk management and measurement industry risks.
The reputational risk management framework is aligned with the Groups strategic objectives, its risk appetite its focus on serving customers well, Sources of risk its risk appetite and the Groups PVV.
It is designed to embed, at different Business risk exists at all levels of the organisation and is generated at points of decision-making processes, a series of reputational filters and the transaction level.
It is affected by other risks the Group faces, which controls that examine products, services and activities through the lens of could contribute to any adverse changes in the Group's revenues or sustainability, transparency and fairness.
They include funding risk, volatility in the cost of funding, nontraded interest rate risk, inflation risk, operational risk, strategic risk, The Group has put the focus on serving customers well at the heart of regulatory risk, conduct risk and reputational risk.
its strategic objectives that, combined with a safe and sound bank, will build a culture and reputation in line with the Groups stakeholder Governance structure expectations.
By serving customers well, RBS aims to be trusted, The Group Board has ultimate responsibility for business risk through the respected and valued a sustainable model of how banks serve society.
achievement of the Groups business plan.
The primary responsibility for Legacy issues remain to be worked through, but dealing with them in a divisional financial performance rests with the divisional CEO supported transparent manner is a necessary part of the ability to move forward.
by divisional ExCo and functions.
The Groups four corporate values serving customers, working together, Responsibility for the management of business risk lies primarily with the thinking long-term and doing the right thing build on the advances made Groups divisions, with oversight by Group Finance.
The divisions are so far e. g. strengthened governance and controls to deliver the required responsible for delivery of their business plans and the management of cultural and behavioural change for the long term, with a set of supporting such factors as pricing, sales volumes, marketing spend and other factors tangible measures.
Key tools designed to embed the values include a that can introduce volatility into earnings.
revised code of conduct, a simple YES-check guide to decisions that need to be taken every day by employees and various training and accreditation programmes.
Values will also be a core part of performance measures to endorse behaviours that benefit customers, manage risk and deliver long-term shareholder value.
unaudited 362 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Risk management and measurement Expected profiles for revenues and costs are determined, on a bottom-up The Group seeks to minimise its exposure to business risk, subject to its basis, through plans reflecting expectations of the external environment wider strategic objectives.
and the Groups strategic priorities.
These profiles are tested against a range of sensitivities and stresses to identify the key risk drivers behind Business risk is identified and managed at product and transaction level.
any potential volatility, along with management actions to address and Estimated revenue and costs, including the potential range of outcomes, manage them.
are key elements in the design of any new product or investment decision.
All policies that ultimately seek to manage and control financial Risk mitigation impacts at the product and transaction level are therefore relevant to The Group operates a forecast process which identifies projected business risk management including policies on conduct, treasury and changes in, or risks to, key financial metrics and ensures appropriate investment spend.
Business risk is reported, assessed and challenged at every governance During 2013, the Group responded to the business risk challenges that it level within the organisation.
Revenue and costs are reported within continues to face, focusing on the management of net interest margin in divisional business line and divisional finance teams maintain a record of order to sustain and grow revenues.
In addition, it introduced cost financial performance against plans, reporting this on a regular basis to management programmes to deliver substantial savings and flexibility in divisional CFOs and to Group functions.
Group Finance challenges the cost base.
divisional financial results and reports performance against plan to the Board and executive committees with a particular focus on revenue Strategic risk generation, cost management initiatives and risk mitigation.
Definition The risk that the Group will make inappropriate strategic choices, or that Business risk is reviewed and assessed through the Groups planning there will be changes in the external environment to which the Group fails cycles and performance management processes.
In the planning cycles, expected and potential scenarios for revenues and Sources of risk costs are determined, on a bottom-up basis, through plans reflecting Strategic risk arises from three principal sources: expectations of the external environment and the Groups strategic priorities.
These scenarios are tested against a range of sensitivities and Inadequate or inaccurate analysis of current and prospective stresses to identify the key risk drivers behind any potential volatility, operating conditions in the Groups markets including together with management actions to address and manage them.
macroeconomic performance, customer and competitor behaviours and actions, regulatory developments and technological impacts: Group Risk operates a top-down stress testing process in parallel to the Groups planning cycles, considering both severe and extreme stress Inadequate or inaccurate understanding of the Groups existing scenarios.
The stress test outcomes form a core part of the assessment capabilities and positioning and ability to implement chosen of earnings and capital adequacy risk appetite and are approved by the strategies: and Board.
The measurement of change in profit and loss of the divisions under stress thereby acts as a measure of business risk.
Divisions also Significant unanticipated changes in the Groups operating conduct their own bottom-up stress testing exercises to assess financial environment.
performance of their businesses under stress.
Failure to manage strategic risk could have a wide-ranging impact on the In 2013, the measurement of business risk was further enhanced through Group.
Effects could include damage to the Groups customer franchises, greater use of downside scenarios, improved granularity of stress testing, and lower revenues, profitability and returns to shareholders.
Strategic new revenue models in some of the main divisions and the development risk is viewed as material, given the current uncertain economic climate of an economic capital related business risk measure.
and the potential impact of regulatory changes in the medium term.
Business risk is incorporated in the Groups risk appetite target for Governance structure earnings volatility, and an assessment of volatility in revenues and costs The Groups strategic planning process is managed by Group Strategy is a key component in determining whether the Group and its underlying and Corporate Finance.
As part of that process, each division develops a businesses are within risk appetite.
Each division is responsible for the strategic plan for its business within a framework set by the Groups implementation of its business plan and the management of associated senior management.
Divisional plans are then consolidated at Group risks within approved risk appetite targets.
level, and both divisional and Group plans are reviewed, challenged and assessed against risk appetite.
The consolidated plan is reviewed and formally signed off by the Group Board once a year.
unaudited 363 Business review Risk and balance sheet management Other risks continued A wide variety of financial, risk, customer and market metrics are used to Strategic risk continued monitor business performance and thus, inter alia, the effectiveness of Strategic plans are developed by each division on an annual cycle chosen strategies.
Any deviations from the expected values are analysed managed centrally, and are aggregated into a Group plan reviewed and to determine drivers which could be strategic, environmental or challenged by the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and management.
Group Director of Strategy and Corporate Finance before presentation to the Group Board.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for approving Risk mitigation strategic plans, initiatives and changes to strategic direction.
In addition A full sensitivity analysis of the strategic plan is undertaken at the end of to the annual cycle, each division presents a more detailed individual the strategic and financial planning process, to assess the robustness of Deep Dive review of key dimensions of its strategy at a Group Board the plan under stressed conditions represented by a variety of scenarios.
meeting at different points during the year.
In certain cases, following consideration of an opportunity, the Group may decide not to pursue that opportunity as a result of a perceived strategic Risk management and measurement risk.
The Group seeks to reduce strategic risk by employing a disciplined strategic framework based on five enduring tests leading customer Developments in 2014 franchises, returns, risk, sustainable growth, connectivity and by In November 2013, the Group announced its intention to undertake a assigning responsibility for strategy development to line management.
Over the remainder of 2013 and into the Key strategies are scrutinised and approved by the Group Board.
This is early months of 2014, it completed the review and developed a strategic intended to maximise the capture of market and customer insight while plan, the objective of which is to position the Group as a UK-focused providing independent scrutiny and challenge.
Strategic plans contain retail and corporate bank that earns its customers trust by serving them analysis of current and expected operating conditions, current and better than any other bank.
Key to achieving this is combining customer targeted competitive and market positioning, key strategic initiatives, groups with similar needs into three new businesses and reducing financial and customer targets and milestones.
Upside and downside significantly the Groups costs and complexity.
While the Group is risks to the strategic plans are identified.
confident that the plan is appropriate, it may have underestimated the risks arising from concentrating its activities in the UK or misunderstood In 2013, the Group began to focus on reducing strategic risk through a the needs of its customers or the strength of its competitive position.
wide-ranging review to analyse core activities and formulate an appropriate plan, including rationalisation where necessary, to address Even if the strategy proves to be appropriate, the Group may not succeed the business challenges of the next five years in implementing it, particularly as doing so will make additional demands on management at a time of significant regulatory change.
Finally, given Responsibility for the management of the banks strategic risks resides the rapidity with which technology is changing its competitive mainly with the individual divisions.
Divisional management tracks environment, the Group may find that its strategy does not go far enough progress on the initiatives and action plans to deliver the strategy through to enable it to compete effectively.
a range of key performance indicators such as financial performance, risk metrics, market shares and numbers of customers, satisfaction scores.
Strategic progress is also monitored through quarterly performance review meetings between divisional CEOs and the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Group Director of Strategy and Corporate Finance.
While there is no formal Group statement on Strategic Risk appetite, the Groups strategy is approved by the Group Board with consideration of the risks in pursuing that strategy.
