RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 99 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 Restated 2013 2012 Notes m m Income Gross written premiums 9,822 9,397 Less: reinsurance premiums 1,158 1,044 Net written premiums 1 8,664 8,353 Change in the gross provision for unearned premiums 151 188 Less: change in provision for unearned premiums, reinsurers share 81 2 Change in provision for unearned premiums 70 186 Net earned premiums 8,594 8,167 Net investment return 2 527 534 Other operating income 4 137 141 Total income 9,258 8,842 Expenses Gross claims incurred 6,653 5,837 Less: claims recoveries from reinsurers 683 448 Net claims 3 5,970 5,389 Underwriting and policy acquisition costs 2,701 2,552 Unwind of discount 160 84 Other operating expenses 4 544 242 Total expenses 9,375 8,267 Finance costs 4 125 121 Net share of loss after tax of associates 11 2 6 Loss profit before tax 1 244 448 Income tax expense 5 94 121 Loss profit for the year 338 327 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent Company 347 320 Non controlling interests 9 7 338 327 Earnings per share on loss profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the Parent Company Basic 6 9.8 p 8.8p Diluted 6 9.8 p 8.7p Ordinary dividends paid and proposed for the year Interim dividend paid per share 7 2.28p 3.41p Final dividend proposed per share 7 nil 3.90p The attached notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
100 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 Restated 2013 2012 Notes m m Loss profit for the year 338 327 Items that may be reclassified to the income statement: Exchange losses net of tax 18 130 70 Share of associates other comprehensive expense income 18 2 1 Fair value losses gains on available for sale financial assets net of tax 18 257 111 389 42 Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement: Remeasurement of net defined benefit pension liability net of tax 18 17 137 Movement in property revaluation surplus net of tax 18 2 4 19 133 Total other comprehensive expense for the year 370 91 Total comprehensive expense income for the year 708 236 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent Company 713 232 Non controlling interests 5 4 708 236 The attached notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 101 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 Foreign Ordinary Ordinary Capital currency ShareNon share share Own Preference Revaluation redemption translation Retained holders controlling Total capital premium shares shares reserves reserve reserve earnings equity interests equity m m m m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2012 as previously reported 971 1,144 1 125 454 8 243 857 3,801 114 3,915 Reserve transfer note 19 420 420 Balance at 1 January 2012 restated 971 724 1 125 454 8 243 1,277 3,801 114 3,915 Total comprehensive income for the year note 18 113 61 180 232 4 236 Dividends note 7 336 336 3 339 Shares issued by scrip 12 12 50 50 50 Shares issued for cash note 19 3 5 8 4 12 Changes in shareholders interests in subsidiaries 1 10 11 10 1 Depreciation transfer 12 12 Share based payments 3 3 6 6 Balance at 1 January 2013 restated 989 717 1 125 554 8 182 1,176 3,750 129 3,879 Total comprehensive expense for the year note 18 256 116 341 713 5 708 Dividends note 7 232 232 14 246 Shares issued by scrip 18 18 75 75 75 Shares issued for cash note 19 2 5 7 7 Changes in shareholders interests in subsidiaries 3 3 1 2 Share based payments 3 6 9 9 Balance at 31 December 2013 1,012 704 1 125 298 8 66 681 2,893 121 3,014 The attached notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
102 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2013 2013 2012 Notes m m Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 8 1,103 1,489 Property and equipment 9 160 272 Investment property 10 331 340 Investments in associates 11 44 40 Financial assets 12 12,259 12,660 Total investments 12,634 13,040 Reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities 14 2,026 1,949 Insurance and reinsurance debtors 15 3,593 3,592 Current tax assets 24 60 76 Deferred tax assets 24 302 285 Other debtors and other assets 16 787 753 1,149 1,114 Cash and cash equivalents 17 1,162 1,329 21,827 22,785 Assets held for sale 35 103 Total assets 21,930 22,785 Equity and liabilities Equity Shareholders equity 2,893 3,750 Non controlling interests 121 129 Total equity 3,014 3,879 Liabilities Loan capital 20 1,309 1,311 Insurance contract liabilities 21 15,001 14,854 Insurance and reinsurance liabilities 22 643 558 Borrowings 23 301 296 Current tax liabilities 24 57 58 Deferred tax liabilities 24 82 139 Provisions 25 366 487 Other liabilities 26 1,157 1,203 Provisions and other liabilities 1,662 1,887 Total liabilities 18,916 18,906 Total equity and liabilities 21,930 22,785 The attached notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements were approved on 26 February 2014 by the Board of Directors and are signed on its behalf by: Richard Houghton Group Chief Financial Officer RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 103 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASHFLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 2013 2012 Notes m m Cashflows from operations 32 241 165 Tax paid 102 201 Investment income 507 526 Interest paid 117 115 Dividends received from associates 1 Pension deficit funding 73 73 Net cashflows from operating activities 456 303 Proceeds from sales or maturities of: Financial assets 4,019 4,533 Investment property 41 Property and equipment 2 22 Investments in subsidiaries net of cash disposed of 2 Purchase of: Financial assets 4,242 4,198 Investment property 43 2 Property and equipment 38 35 Intangible assets 130 146 Investments in subsidiaries net of cash acquired 15 97 Investments in associates 4 9 Net cashflows from investing activities 408 68 Proceeds from issue of share capital 7 12 Sale of shares to non controlling interests 2 6 Purchase of shares from non controlling interests 1 Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders 148 277 Dividends paid to preference shareholders 9 9 Dividends paid to non controlling interests 14 2 Net movement in other borrowings 4 1 Net cashflows from financing activities 159 271 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 111 100 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 1,329 1,258 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 56 29 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 17 1,162 1,329 The attached notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
104 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are set out below.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of available for sale financial assets, investment property, Group occupied property, financial assets held for trading, all derivative contracts and held for sale assets.
Except where otherwise stated, all figures included in the consolidated financial statements are presented in millions of Pounds Sterling, shown as m, rounded to the nearest million.
There are no significant changes to Group accounting policies during 2013 other than those disclosed below.
CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES, PRESENTATION, DISCLOSURE AND COMPARATIVE INFORMATION The Group has adopted the following revisions to existing IFRS and new IFRS during 2013: IAS 19 Employee Benefits Restatement The Group has adopted the revised version of IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
Expected returns on plan assets are no longer recognised in profit or loss.
Expected returns are replaced by recording interest income in profit or loss, which is calculated using the discount rate used to measure the pension obligation.
The information for the year ended 31 December 2012 has been restated and the impact of the revised standard on the results previously reported for the year ended 31 December 2012 is provided in note 27.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements The Group has applied Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income.
There is a change in the presentation of items in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income on page 100 which now identifies separately items that may be reclassified to the income statement.
The change in presentation has no impact on either the total financial results or the financial position of the Group.
The information for the year ended 31 December 2012 has been presented in accordance with the revised standard.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement The Group has adopted IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and as a consequence there are additional disclosures included in the financial statements as presented in note 13.
Amendments to IFRS 7 The Group has adopted Disclosures: Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IFRS 7.
There are additional disclosures made to explain existing rights where under specified circumstances the Group has the benefit of additional security over an asset through a right of offset against certain liabilities.
The adoption of the amendments to IFRS 7 has no impact on either the total financial results or the financial position of the Group.
The adoption of IFRS 13 increased the value of the Groups pension schemes assets by 160m which is recognised in other comprehensive income see note 27.
There are a number of other changes to IFRS that became mandatory in 2013 but which have no significant impact on the financial statements of the Group.
SELECTION OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES The Group exercises judgement in selecting each Group accounting policy.
The accounting policies of the Group are selected by the Directors to present financial statements that they consider provide the most relevant information.
For certain accounting policies there are different accounting treatments that could be adopted, each of which would be in compliance with IFRS and would have a significant influence upon the basis on which the financial statements are presented.
The basis of selection of the accounting policies for the accounting for financial assets is to designate financial assets that are held as investments on the basis on which the investment return is managed and the performance is evaluated internally.
Where the investment return is managed on the basis of the periodic cashflows arising from the investment, a financial asset is designated as an available for sale financial asset with unrealised gains recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Where the investment return is managed on the basis of the total return on the investment including unrealised investment gains, the financial asset is designated as at fair value through the income statement.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 105 CONSOLIDATION Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits from their activities, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
For business combinations completed on or after 1 January 2010 the cost of acquisition includes the fair value of deferred and contingent consideration at the acquisition date and subsequent changes in the carrying value of the consideration are recognised in the income statement.
For business combinations completed prior to 31 December 2009, the cost also includes costs directly attributable to the acquisition and the value of contingent consideration on settlement.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non controlling interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Changes in the ownership interests of a subsidiary between shareholders of the Group and shareholders holding a non controlling interest are accounted for as transactions between equity holders of the Group.
Any difference between the fair value of the consideration given by the transferee and the carrying value of the ownership interest transferred is recognised directly in equity.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Associates Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups share of its associates post acquisition profits or losses are recognised in the income statement and its share of post acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
The cumulative post acquisition movements are adjusted in the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Adjustments are made, where necessary, to the accounting policies of associates to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
TRANSLATION OF FOREIGN CURRENCIES Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which each entity operates the functional currency.
The results and financial position of those Group entities whose functional currency is not Sterling are translated into Sterling as follows: Assets and liabilities for each statement of financial position presented are translated at closing exchange rates at the end of the period Income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates during each period All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a component of equity as set out below On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are recognised in other comprehensive income within the foreign currency translation reserve.
When a foreign entity is sold, the cumulative exchange differences relating to that foreign entity are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity is treated as an asset of the foreign entity and the carrying value is translated at the closing exchange rate.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
106 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED INTANGIBLE ASSETS Goodwill Goodwill, being the difference between the cost of a business acquisition and the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, is initially capitalised in the statement of financial position at cost and is subsequently recognised at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
The cost of the acquisition is the amount of cash paid and the fair value of other purchase consideration.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Goodwill is subject to an impairment review at least annually.
An impairment review is also carried out whenever there is an indication that goodwill is impaired.
Where the carrying amount is more than the recoverable amount, impairment is recognised in the income statement.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets comprise renewal rights, customer lists, brands and other acquired identifiable non monetary assets without physical form.
When valuing insurance liabilities in a business combination, provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses are discounted to present value.
Following the acquisition, the acquired provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses are, where applicable, valued in accordance with Group accounting policies at full nominal value.
This increase in insurance liabilities is matched by the recognition of an intangible asset arising from acquired provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses, representing the present value of future investment income implicit in the claims discount.
The intangible asset is amortised over the expected run off period and is tested within the liability adequacy test of insurance contract liabilities where the balances of intangible assets associated with insurance contracts are deducted from the carrying amount of the insurance contract liabilities.
The run off period is normally between 5 and 11 years.
Expenditure that enhances the future economic benefits arising from computer software is recognised as an intangible asset.
Computer software and other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and less any accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation on computer software and other intangible assets is calculated using the straight line method to allocate the cost over their estimated useful lives, which is normally estimated to be between 3 and 12 years.
An impairment review is carried out whenever there is an indication that an intangible asset is impaired.
Where the carrying amount is more than the recoverable amount, an impairment charge is recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses previously recognised on other intangible assets may be reversed in subsequent periods provided that the revised carrying amount does not exceed the value that would have been determined net of amortisation or depreciation had no impairment loss been recognised.
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment comprise Group occupied land and buildings, fixtures, fittings and equipment including computer hardware and motor vehicles.
These assets are depreciated over their estimated useful life after taking into account residual values.
Group occupied property is stated at fair value, less subsequent depreciation for buildings.
Fair value movements are recorded in other comprehensive income within revaluation reserves.
All other assets are stated at depreciated cost.
All other classes are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated to the item will flow to the Group and the cost can be measured reliably.
Depreciation on all other items is calculated on the straight line method to write down the cost of such assets to their residual value over their estimated useful lives as follows: Group occupied buildings normally 30 years Fixtures and fittings 10 years Motor vehicles 4 years Equipment 35 years The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate.
An impairment review is carried out whenever there is an indication that the assets are impaired.
An assets carrying amount is written down to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Increases in the carrying amount arising on the revaluation of Group occupied property are credited to revaluation reserves in other comprehensive income.
Decreases that offset the previous increases of the same asset are charged against revaluation surplus directly in other comprehensive income: other decreases are charged to the income statement.
Each year the difference between depreciation based on the fair value of the asset charged to the income statement and depreciation based on the assets original cost is transferred from revaluation reserve to retained earnings.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 107 INVESTMENT PROPERTY Investment property, comprising freehold and leasehold land and buildings, is held for long-term rental yields and is not occupied by the Group.
Investment property is recorded at fair value.
Unrealised gains and unrealised losses or changes thereof are recognised in net investment return.
FINANCIAL ASSETS A financial asset is initially recognised on the date the Group commits to purchase the asset at fair value plus, in the case of all financial assets not classified as at fair value through the income statement, transaction costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition.
A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive cashflows from the investment have expired or have been transferred and when the Group has substantially transferred the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset.
On initial recognition, financial assets may be categorised into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through the income statement, loans and receivables, held to maturity financial assets and available for sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the investments were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition.
The Group designates investments in equity and debt securities in accordance with its investment strategy on the basis on which the investment return is managed and its performance is evaluated internally.
Where the investment return is managed on the basis of the periodic cashflows arising from the investment, a financial asset is designated as an available for sale financial asset.
Other investments comprising loans and other deposits are classified as loans and receivables.
Financial assets arising from non investment activities are not classified on initial recognition as available for sale assets and are therefore categorised as loans and receivables.
Investment income is recognised in the income statement.
Dividends on equity investments are recognised on the date at which the investment is priced ex dividend.
Interest income is recognised using the effective interest method.
Unrealised gains and losses on available for sale investments are recognised in other comprehensive income, except for impairment losses and foreign exchange gains and losses on monetary items which are recognised in the income statement.
On derecognition of an investment classified as available for sale, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised in the income statement.
For available for sale financial assets, where the cumulative changes in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income represent a loss, the individual asset or group of assets is reviewed to test whether an indication of impairment exists.
For securities whose fair values are readily determined and where there is objective evidence that such an asset is impaired, including for equity investments a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value below cost, the net loss previously charged to other comprehensive income is reclassified to the income statement.
If the fair value of a previously impaired debt security increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised, the impairment loss is reversed and the reversal recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses on equity investments are not reversed.
For other loans and receivables, where there is evidence that the contracted cashflows will not be received in full, an impairment charge is recognised in the income statement to reduce the carrying value of the financial asset to its recoverable amount.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Derivatives are recognised in the statement of financial position on a trade date basis and are carried at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when fair value is positive and as liabilities when fair value is negative.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and the nature of the item being hedged.
Where a derivative is not designated as a hedging instrument, changes in its fair value are recognised in the income statement.
HEDGING Transactions are classified as hedging transactions when the following conditions for hedge accounting are met: There is a formal designation and documentation of the hedging relationship and the Groups risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge The hedge is expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cashflows attributable to the hedged risk, consistent with the originally documented risk management strategy for that particular hedging relationship The effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured The hedge is assessed on an ongoing basis and determined to have been highly effective.
Where a foreign exchange derivative is designated as a hedging instrument against the net investment in foreign entities, the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income: the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive income are included in the income statement when the underlying hedged item is derecognised.
108 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED ESTIMATION OF THE FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES The methods and assumptions used by the Group in estimating the fair value of financial assets and liabilities are: For fixed maturity securities, fair values are generally based upon quoted market prices.
Where market prices are not readily available, fair values are estimated using either values obtained from quoted market prices of comparable securities or estimated by discounting expected future cashflows using a current market rate applicable to the yield, credit quality and maturity of the investment For equity securities fair values are based upon quoted market prices If the market for a financial asset is not active, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques.
These include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cashflow analysis and option pricing models For cash, loans and receivables, commercial paper, other assets, liabilities and accruals, carrying amounts approximate to fair values For notes, bonds, loans payable and loan capital, fair values are determined by reference to quoted market prices or estimated using discounted cashflow calculations based upon prevailing market rates.
Loan capital is carried at amortised cost and, when different, fair value is disclosed in the relevant note.
For borrowings that carry a variable rate of interest other than loan capital, carrying values approximate to fair values For derivatives, fair values are generally based upon quoted market prices.
For disclosure purposes, fair value measurements are classified as Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which fair value is observable: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include significant inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
INSURANCE CONTRACTS Product classification Insurance contracts are those contracts that transfer significant insurance risk at the inception of the contract.
Insurance risk is transferred when the Group agrees to compensate a policyholder if a specified uncertain future event other than a change in a financial variable adversely affects the policyholder.
Any contracts not meeting the definition of an insurance contract under IFRS are classified as investment contracts or derivative contracts, as appropriate.
Recognition of income Premiums written are accounted for in the period in which the contract is entered into and include estimates where the amounts are not determined at the end of the reporting period.
Duties levied on premiums and directly related expenses, e. g. commissions are recognised as an expense.
Premiums are earned as revenue over the period of the contract and are calculated principally on a daily pro rata basis.
Insurance contract liabilities The provision for unearned premium represents the portion of the premiums written relating to periods of insurance coverage subsequent to the end of the reporting period after the deduction of related acquisition costs.
Acquisition costs comprise the direct and indirect costs of obtaining and processing new insurance business.
These costs are recognised as deferred acquisition costs and are deducted from the provision for unearned premiums.
Deferred acquisition costs DAC are amortised on the same basis as the related unearned premiums are earned.
The provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses whether reported or not, comprise the estimated cost of claims incurred but not settled at the end of the reporting period.
It includes related expenses and a deduction for the expected value of salvage and other recoveries.
The provision is determined using the best information available of claims settlement patterns, forecast inflation and settlement of claims.
The provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses relating to long-term permanent disability claims in the UK and Scandinavia are also determined using recognised actuarial methods.
The provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses, and related reinsurance recoveries, are discounted where there is a particularly long period from incident to claims settlement or when nominal interest rates are high and where there exists a suitable claims payment pattern from which to calculate the discount.
In defining those claims with a long period from incident to claims settlement, those categories of claims where the average period of settlement is six years or more has been used as a guide.
The discount rate used is based upon an investment return expected to be earned by assets, which are appropriate in magnitude and nature to cover the provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses being discounted, which in practice are bonds and property, during the period necessary for the payment of such claims.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 109 Differences between the estimated cost and subsequent settlement of claims are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are settled or in which the provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses are re-estimated.
At the end of each reporting period liability adequacy tests are performed to ensure the adequacy of the provision for unearned premium net of related DAC assets.
In performing these tests best estimates of future contractual cashflows, claims handling and administrative expenses as well as investment income on assets backing such liabilities are used.
Any deficiency is charged to the income statement immediately by establishing a provision for liability adequacy the unexpired risk provision.
The unexpired risk provision is assessed in aggregate for business classes which, in the opinion of the Directors, are managed together.
Reinsurance ceded Premiums payable in respect of insurance ceded are recognised in the period in which the reinsurance contract is entered into and include estimates where the amounts are not determined at the end of the reporting period.
Premiums are expensed over the period of the reinsurance contract, calculated principally on a daily pro rata basis.
A reinsurance asset reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities is recognised to reflect the amount estimated to be recoverable under the reinsurance contracts in respect of the provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses reported under insurance contract liabilities.
The amount recoverable from reinsurers is initially valued on the same basis as the underlying provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses.
The amount recoverable is reduced when there is an event arising after the initial recognition that provides objective evidence that the Group may not receive all amounts due under the reinsurance contract and the event has a reliably measurable impact on the expected amount that will be recovered from the reinsurer.
The reinsurers share of each unexpired risk provision is recognised on the same basis.
Annuities purchased by the Group to make payments under structured settlement arrangements are accounted for as reinsurance ceded if the Group remains liable for the settlement in the event of default by the annuity provider.
Any gain or loss arising on the purchase of an annuity is recognised in the income statement at the date of purchase.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments that are subject to insignificant changes in value and are readily convertible into known amounts of cash.
Cash equivalents comprise financial assets with less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition.
OWN SHARES Own shares are deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the own shares.
Any consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity.
LOAN CAPITAL Loan capital comprises subordinated bonds which are initially measured at the consideration received less transaction costs.
Subsequently, loan capital is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
TAXATION Taxation in the income statement is based on profits and income for the year as determined in accordance with the relevant tax legislation, together with adjustments to provisions for prior years.
Deferred tax in respect of the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and principal associated undertakings is recognised as an expense in the year in which the profits arise, except where the remittance of earnings can be controlled and it is probable that remittance will not take place in the foreseeable future, in which case the tax charge is recognised on the dividends received.
Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and the carrying amounts in the financial statements.
However, if the deferred tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting, nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the related deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which unused tax losses and temporary differences can be utilised.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Group companies operate various pension schemes.
The schemes are generally funded through payments to trustee administered funds.
The Group has both defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
A defined contribution scheme is a pension scheme under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
A defined benefit scheme is a pension scheme that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and salary.
110 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Post retirement benefits including pension schemes and post retirement health schemes Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged in the income statement in the period in which the employment services qualifying for the benefit are provided.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The value of the net defined benefit liability asset recognised in the statement of financial position for each individual post retirement scheme is calculated as follows: The present value of defined benefit obligation of the scheme at the end of the reporting period Minus the fair value at the end of the reporting period of the scheme assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
The present value of defined benefit obligations and the present value of additional benefits accruing during the period are calculated using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
The calculation of the present value of accrued benefits includes an actuarial assumption of future interest rates, which is used to discount the expected ultimate cost of providing the benefits.
The discount rate is determined at the end of each reporting period by reference to current market yields on high quality corporate bonds identified to match the currency and estimated term of the obligations.
For those individual schemes in deficit, the resulting net liabilities are recognised in the statement of financial position in provisions.
For those individual schemes in surplus, an asset is recognised in the statement of financial position in other debtors and other assets to the extent that the Group can realise an economic benefit, in the form of a refund or a reduction in future contributions, at some point during the life of the scheme or when the scheme liabilities are settled.
The amounts charged or credited where relevant in the income statement relating to post retirement benefits in respect of defined benefit schemes are as follows: The current service cost The past service costs and gains or losses on settlements Net interest on the net defined benefit liability asset Administration costs of operating the pension schemes.
The current service cost in respect of defined benefit schemes comprises the present value of the additional benefits attributable to employees services provided during the period.
Past service costs arise from a plan amendment or curtailment.
Past service costs are recognised in the income statement at the earlier of when the plan amendment or curtailment occurs and, where applicable, when the Group recognises related restructuring costs or termination benefits.
The net interest on the net defined benefit liability asset is determined by multiplying the net defined benefit liability asset by the discount rate, both as determined at the start of the annual reporting period and taking account of any changes in the net defined benefit liability asset during the period as a result of contribution and benefit payments.
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability asset comprise actuarial gains and losses and the return on plan assets excluding amounts included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability asset and are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Actuarial gains and losses arise from changes to actuarial assumptions when revaluing future benefits and from actual experience in respect of scheme liabilities.
Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group recognises termination benefits at the earlier of when it can no longer withdraw the offer and when any related restructuring costs are recognised.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the end of the reporting period are discounted to present value.
Share based payments The value of employee share options and other equity settled share based payments is calculated at fair value at the grant date using appropriate and recognised option pricing models.
Vesting conditions, which comprise service conditions and performance conditions, other than those based upon market conditions, are not taken into account when estimating the fair value of such awards but are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments included in the ultimate measurement of the transaction amount.
The value of the awards is recognised as an expense on a systematic basis over the period during which the employment services are provided.
Where an award of options is cancelled by an employee, the full value of the award less any value previously recognised is recognised at the cancellation date.
The proceeds received net of any transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 111 PROVISIONS Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
DIVIDENDS TO EQUITY HOLDERS The final dividend is recognised as a liability when approved at the Annual General Meeting.
LEASES Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Payments made under operating leases are charged on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
OPERATING SEGMENTS Operating segments are identified on the basis of the regional structure of the Group.
Internal reports about these segments are regularly reviewed by the Board of Directors determined to be the chief operating decision maker to assess their performance and to allocate capital and resources.
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES HELD FOR SALE AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction, that is highly probable to be completed within one year from the date of classification, rather than through continuing use.
Such assets are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell and are classified separately from other assets in the statement of financial position.
Assets and liabilities of a disposal group are not netted.
In the period where a non current asset or disposal group is recognised for the first time, the statement of financial position for the comparative prior period presented is not restated.
Discontinued operations are presented on the face of the income statement as a single amount comprising the total of the net profit or loss of discontinued operations and the after tax gain or loss recognised on the sale or the measurement to fair value less costs to sell of the net assets constituting the discontinued operations.
In the period where an operation is presented for the first time as discontinued, the income statement for the comparative prior period presented is restated to present that operation as discontinued.
Unless otherwise stated, in the period where an operation is presented as discontinued, the notes to the financial statements contain amounts attributable to continuing operations only.
The comparatives for the notes to the income statement are restated.
CURRENT AND NON CURRENT DISTINCTION Assets are classified as current when expected to be realised within the Groups normal operating cycle of one year.
Liabilities are classified as current when expected to be settled within the Groups normal operating cycle of one year.
All other assets and liabilities are classified as non current.
The Groups statement of financial position is not presented using current and non current classifications.
However, the following balances are generally classified as current: cash and cash equivalents and insurance and reinsurance debtors.
The following balances are generally classified as non current: goodwill and other intangible assets: property and equipment: investment property: investment in associates: financial assets: deferred tax assets: loan capital: and deferred tax liabilities.
The remaining balances are of a mixed nature.
The current and non current portions of such balances are set out in the respective notes or in the risk management section.
RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Pronouncements issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and adopted by the EU but which are not yet mandatory for adoption and have yet to be adopted in the Group financial statements are described below: New and revised IFRS that will be applied by the Group in its 2014 financial statements The Group will apply IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities.
None of these are expected to have a significant impact on the financial statements of the Group.
There are a number of other changes to IFRSs that become mandatory in 2014 but which have no significant impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Other new and revised IFRS that are not mandatory for adoption in 2014 There are a number of new IFRS and revised IFRSs that have been issued and which are mandatory after 2014.
It is expected that none of these changes will have a significant impact on the financial statements of the Group.
112 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ESTIMATION TECHNIQUES, RISKS, UNCERTAINTIES AND CONTINGENCIES Other new IFRS that are not yet adopted by the EU The IASB has issued a new IFRS and a number of changes to existing IFRS that have not yet been adopted by the EU.
The most significant of these ongoing developments for the Group is the project to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
INTRODUCTION One of the purposes of insurance is to enable policyholders to protect themselves against uncertain future events.
Insurance companies accept the transfer of uncertainty from policyholders and seek to add value through the aggregation and management of these risks.
The uncertainty inherent in insurance is inevitably reflected in the financial statements of insurance companies.
The uncertainty in the financial statements principally arises in respect of the insurance contract liabilities of the company.
The insurance contract liabilities of an insurance company include the provision for unearned premiums and unexpired risks and the provision for losses and loss adjustment expenses.
Unearned premiums and unexpired risks represent the amount of income set aside by the company to cover the cost of claims that may arise during the unexpired period of risk of insurance policies in force at the end of the reporting period.
Outstanding claims represent the companys estimate of the cost of settlement of claims that have occurred by the end of the reporting period but have not yet been finally settled.
In addition to the inherent uncertainty of having to make provision for future events, there is also considerable uncertainty as regards the eventual outcome of the claims that have occurred by the end of the reporting period but remain unsettled.
This includes claims that may have occurred but have not yet been notified to the company and those that are not yet apparent to the insured.
As a consequence of this uncertainty, the insurance company needs to apply sophisticated estimation techniques to determine the appropriate provisions.
ESTIMATION TECHNIQUES Claims and unexpired risks provisions are determined based upon previous claims experience, knowledge of events and the terms and conditions of the relevant policies and on interpretation of circumstances.
Particularly relevant is experience with similar cases and historical claims payment trends.
The approach also includes the consideration of the development of loss payment trends, the potential longer term significance of large events, the levels of unpaid claims, legislative changes, judicial decisions and economic, political and regulatory conditions.
Where possible, the Group adopts multiple techniques to estimate the required level of provisions.
This assists in giving greater understanding of the trends inherent in the data being projected.
The Groups estimates of losses and loss expenses are reached after a review of several commonly accepted actuarial projection methodologies and a number of different bases to determine these provisions.
These include methods based upon the following: The development of previously settled claims, where payments to date are extrapolated for each prior year Estimates based upon a projection of claims numbers and average cost Notified claims development, where notified claims to date for each year are extrapolated based upon observed development of earlier years Expected loss ratios.
In addition, the Group uses other methods such as the Bornhuetter-Ferguson method, which combines features of the above methods.
The Group also uses bespoke methods for specialist classes of business.
In selecting its best estimate, the Group considers the appropriateness of the methods and bases to the individual circumstances of the provision class and underwriting year.
The process is designed to select the most appropriate best estimate.
Large claims impacting each relevant business class are generally assessed separately, being measured either at the face value of the loss adjusters estimates or projected separately in order to allow for the future development of large claims.
Provisions are calculated gross of any reinsurance recoveries.
A separate estimate is made of the amounts that will be recoverable from reinsurers based upon the gross provisions and having due regard to collectability.
The provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses are subject to close scrutiny both within the Groups business units and at Group Corporate Centre.
In addition, for major classes where the risks and uncertainties inherent in the provisions are greatest, regular and ad hoc detailed reviews are undertaken by advisers who are able to draw upon their specialist expertise and a broader knowledge of current industry trends in claims development.
As an example, the Groups exposure to asbestos related losses is examined on this basis.
The results of these reviews are considered when establishing the appropriate levels of provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses and unexpired periods of risk.
It should be emphasised that the estimation techniques for the determination of insurance contract liabilities involve obtaining corroborative evidence from as wide a range of sources as possible and combining these to form the overall estimate.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 113 The pension assets and pension and post retirement liabilities are calculated in accordance with International Accounting Standard 19 IAS 19.
The assets, liabilities and income statement charge, calculated in accordance with IAS 19, are sensitive to the assumptions made from time to time, including inflation, interest rate, investment return and mortality.
IAS 19 compares, at a given date, the current market value of a pension funds assets with its long-term liabilities, which are calculated using a discount rate in line with yields on AA rated bonds of suitable duration and currency.
As such, the financial position of a pension fund on this basis is highly sensitive to changes in bond rates and will also be impacted by changes in equity markets.
UNCERTAINTIES AND CONTINGENCIES The uncertainty arising under insurance contracts may be characterised under a number of specific headings, such as: Uncertainty as to whether an event has occurred which would give rise to a policyholder suffering an insured loss Uncertainty as to the extent of policy coverage and limits applicable Uncertainty as to the amount of insured loss suffered by a policyholder as a result of the event occurring Uncertainty over the timing of a settlement to a policyholder for a loss suffered.
The degree of uncertainty will vary by policy class according to the characteristics of the insured risks and the cost of a claim will be determined by the actual loss suffered by the policyholder.
There may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of the insured event and the time it is actually reported to the Group.
Following the identification and notification of an insured loss, there may still be uncertainty as to the magnitude and timing of the settlement of the claim.
There are many factors that will determine the level of uncertainty such as inflation, inconsistent judicial interpretations and court judgements that broaden policy coverage beyond the intent of the original insurance, legislative changes and claims handling procedures.
The establishment of insurance contract liabilities is an inherently uncertain process and, as a consequence of this uncertainty, the eventual cost of settlement of outstanding claims and unexpired risks can vary substantially from the initial estimates, particularly for the Groups long tail lines of business.
The Group seeks to provide appropriate levels of provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses and provision for unexpired risks taking the known facts and experience into account.
The Group has exposures to risks in each class of business within each operating segment that may develop and that could have a material impact upon the Groups financial position.
The geographic and insurance risk diversity within the Groups portfolio of issued insurance policies mean it is not possible to predict whether material development will occur and, if it does occur, the location and the timing of such an occurrence.
The estimation of insurance contract liabilities involves the use of judgements and assumptions that are specific to the insurance risks within each territory and the particular type of insurance risk covered.
The diversity of the insurance risks results in it not being possible to identify individual judgements and assumptions that are more likely than others to have a material impact on the future development of the insurance contract liabilities.
The sections below identify a number of specific risks relating to asbestos and environmental claims.
There may be other classes of risk which could develop in the future and that could have a material impact on the Groups financial position.
The Group evaluates the concentration of exposures to individual and cumulative insurance risk and establishes its reinsurance policy to manage such exposure to levels acceptable to the Group.
ASBESTOS AND ENVIRONMENTAL CLAIMS The estimation of the provisions for the ultimate cost of claims for asbestos and environmental pollution is subject to a range of uncertainties that is generally greater than those encountered for other classes of insurance business.
As a result it is not possible to determine the future development of asbestos and environmental claims with the same degree of reliability as with other types of claims, particularly in periods when theories of law are in flux.
Consequently, traditional techniques for estimating provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses cannot wholly be relied upon and the Group employs specialised techniques to determine provisions using the extensive knowledge of both internal asbestos and environmental pollution experts and external legal and professional advisors.
Factors contributing to this higher degree of uncertainty include: The long delay in reporting claims from the date of exposure for example, cases of mesothelioma can have a latent period of up to 40 years.
This makes estimating the ultimate number of claims the Group will receive particularly difficult Issues of allocation of responsibility among potentially responsible parties and insurers Emerging court decisions and the possibility of retrospective legislative changes increasing or decreasing insurer liability The tendency for social trends and factors to influence court awards Developments pertaining to the Groups ability to recover reinsurance for claims of this nature For US liabilities from the Groups London market business, developments in the tactics of US plaintiff lawyers and court decisions and awards.
114 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ESTIMATION TECHNIQUES, RISKS, UNCERTAINTIES AND CONTINGENCIES CONTINUED POTENTIAL CHANGE IN DISCOUNT RATE FOR LUMP SUM DAMAGES AWARDS Legislative changes may affect the Groups liability in respect of unsettled claims in the use of predetermined factors used by courts to calculate compensation claims.
For example, in the UK, standard formulae are used as an actuarial measure by the courts to assess lump sum damages awards for future losses typically loss of earnings arising from personal injuries and fatal accidents.
The calibration of these standard formulae can be updated by the UK Government and the Lord Chancellor may review the methodology to be applied in determining the discount rate to calculate the appropriate settlements, or the discount rate itself, in due course.
A reduction in the prescribed discount rate would increase the value of future claims settlements.
POTENTIAL CREDIT RISK FOR STRUCTURED SETTLEMENTS In Canada the Group has purchased annuities from regulated Canadian life insurers in order to pay fixed and recurring payments to certain claimants.
This arrangement exposes the group to a credit risk in the event that the life insurers are unable to make these payments which is mitigated by an industry compensation scheme which in that event would assume a significant majority of the remaining outstanding obligations.
The likelihood of both a Canadian regulated life insurer and the industry compensation scheme being unable to pay their obligations is considered very remote and so no provision has been recognised in respect of this risk.
ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS The Group makes acquisitions and disposals of businesses as part of its normal operations.
All acquisitions are made after due diligence, which will include, amongst other matters, assessment of the adequacy of claims reserves, assessment of the recoverability of reinsurance balances, inquiries with regard to outstanding litigation and inquiries of local regulators and taxation authorities.
Consideration is also given to potential costs, risks and issues in relation to the integration of any proposed acquisitions with existing Group operations.
The Group will seek to receive the benefit of appropriate contractual representations and warranties in connection with any acquisition and, where necessary, additional indemnifications in relation to specific risks although there can be no guarantee that these processes and any such protection will be adequate in all circumstances.
The Group may also provide relevant representations, warranties and indemnities to counterparties on any disposal.
These clauses are customary in such contracts and may from time to time lead to the Group receiving claims from counterparties.
CONTRACTS WITH THIRD PARTIES The Group enters into joint ventures, outsourcing contracts and distribution arrangements with third parties in the normal course of its business and is reliant upon those third parties being willing and able to perform their obligations in accordance with the terms and conditions of the contracts.
LITIGATION, DISPUTES AND INVESTIGATIONS The Group, in common with the insurance industry in general, is subject to litigation, mediation and arbitration, and regulatory, governmental and other sectoral inquiries and investigations in the normal course of its business.
In addition, the Group is exposed to the risk of litigation in connection with its former ownership of the US operation.
The directors do not believe that any current mediation, arbitration, regulatory, governmental or sectoral inquiries and investigations and pending or threatened litigation or dispute will have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position, although there can be no assurance that losses or financial penalties resulting from any current mediation, arbitration, regulatory, governmental or sectoral inquiries and investigations and pending or threatened litigation or dispute will not materially affect the Groups financial position or cashflows for any period.
REINSURANCE The Group is exposed to disputes on, and defects in, contracts with its reinsurers and the possibility of default by its reinsurers.
The Group is also exposed to the credit risk assumed in fronting arrangements and to potential reinsurance capacity constraints.
In selecting the reinsurers with whom the Group conducts business its strategy is to seek reinsurers with the appropriate combination of financial strength, price and capacity.
The Group Corporate Centre publishes internally a list of authorised reinsurers who pass the Groups selection process and which its operations may use for new transactions.
The Group monitors the financial strength of its reinsurers, including those to whom risks are no longer ceded.
Allowance is made in the financial position for non recoverability due to reinsurer default by requiring operations to provide, in line with Group standards, having regard to companies on the Groups Watch List.
The Watch List is the list of companies which the directors believe may not be able to pay amounts due to the Group in full.
INVESTMENT RISK The Group is exposed to market risk and credit risk on its invested assets.
Market risk includes the risk of potential losses from adverse movements in market rates and prices including interest rates, equity prices, property prices and foreign exchange rates.
The Groups exposure to market risks is controlled by the setting of investment limits in line with the Groups risk appetite.
From time to time the Group also makes use of derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to adverse fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and equity markets.
The Group has strict controls over the use of derivative instruments.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 115 Credit risk includes the non performance of contractual payment obligations on invested assets and adverse changes in the credit worthiness of invested assets including exposures to issuers or counterparties for bonds, equities, deposits and derivatives.
Limits are set at both a portfolio and counterparty level based on likelihood of default to manage the Groups overall credit profile and specific concentrations within risk appetite.
The Groups insurance investment portfolios are concentrated in listed securities with very low levels of exposure to assets without quoted market prices.
The Group uses model based analysis to verify asset values when market values are not readily available.
RATING ENVIRONMENT The ability of the Group to write certain types of insurance business is dependent on the maintenance of the appropriate credit ratings from the rating agencies.
The Group has the objective of maintaining, at a minimum, single A ratings.
At the present time the ratings are A CreditWatch Developing from S&P and A2 stable outlook from Moodys.
A worsening in the ratings, below objective, could have an adverse impact on the ability of the Group to write certain types of general insurance business.
In assessing credit risk in relation to reinsurance and investments, the Group takes into account a variety of factors, including credit rating.
If any such rating changes, or is otherwise reassessed, this has potential implications for the related exposures.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK The Group publishes consolidated financial statements in Pounds Sterling.
Therefore, fluctuations in exchange rates used to translate other currencies, particularly the Danish Krone and Swedish Krona, the Euro and the Canadian Dollar, into Pounds Sterling will impact the reported consolidated financial position, results of operations and cashflows from period to period.
These fluctuations in exchange rates will also impact the Pound Sterling value of, and the return on, the Groups investments.
Income and expenses for each income statement item are translated at average exchange rates.
Assets and liabilities, as reported in the statement of financial position, are translated at closing exchange rates at the end of the reporting period.
REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT The legal, regulatory and accounting environment is subject to significant change in many of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates, including developments in response to changes in the economic and political environment.
The Group continues to monitor the developments and react accordingly.
Solvency II, the new solvency framework being developed by the EU is intended to achieve greater harmonisation of approach across EU member states to assessing capital resources and requirements.
The planned implementation date is now 1 January 2016, although there still remains continued uncertainty as to the final rules.
The Group is actively involved in shaping the outcome through its involvement with European and UK regulators and industry bodies, whilst progressing its implementation plans.
The directors are confident that the Group will continue to meet all future regulatory capital requirements.
