RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 173 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION REGISTERED OFFICE AND GROUP CORPORATE CENTRE 9th Floor, One Plantation Place, 30 Fenchurch Street, London EC3M 3BD.
Registered in England and Wales No.
GROUP WEBSITE The Companys corporate website provides shareholders with a broad range of information about the Companys heritage, social and environmental responsibilities and investor information such as the Groups financial statements, current and historic share prices, Annual General Meeting AGM materials, events, governance information and answers to frequently asked questions in respect of shareholder matters.
Visit the investor website at www.
com investorrelations for further information.
REGISTRAR The Companys share register is maintained by Equiniti Limited.
Any administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings, such as dividend payment instructions or a change of address, should be notified to Equiniti at the following address: Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone: 0871 384 2048 When contacting Equiniti, please quote your shareholder reference number which can be found on your share certificate or dividend tax voucher.
Calls cost 8p per minute plus network extras.
Telephone lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
Shareholders with a text phone facility should use 44 0 871 384 2255 or alternatively use the Text Relay service by dialling 18001 0121 415 7064 directly from the text phone.
To securely email Equiniti with an enquiry visit http: help.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Holders of the Companys ordinary shares are invited to attend the Companys AGM, which will be held at 200 Aldersgate, St Pauls, London EC1A 4HD at 11.00am on Friday 9 May 2014.
MANAGING YOUR SHAREHOLDING Information on how to manage your shareholding can be found at http: help.
If you do not find the information you require, you can send your enquiry via secure email from these pages.
You will be asked to complete a form providing your name, address and shareholder reference number.
If you require an email response, you will need to provide your email address.
AMALGAMATION OF ACCOUNTS Shareholders who receive duplicate sets of Company mailings owing to multiple accounts in their name may contact Equiniti to request that their accounts be amalgamated.
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS Receiving the Companys communications electronically allows the Company to communicate with its shareholders in a more environmentally friendly, cost effective and timely manner.
You can elect to receive email notifications of shareholder communications by registering at www.
co. uk where you can also set up a bank mandate to receive dividends directly to your bank account and submit proxy votes for shareholder meetings.
Shareholders may elect to receive a printed copy of the Annual Report and Accounts at any time by contacting Equiniti.
Additionally, if you wish to register for the Companys investor news service to receive the latest news and press releases by email, visit www.
DIVIDENDS Shareholders are encouraged to have their dividends paid directly into their bank account.
It is a more secure and faster way to receive the dividend payment with cleared funds available to shareholders on the dividend payment date.
Shareholders who have their dividends paid directly into their bank receive a consolidated tax voucher once a year, showing payments received in the respective tax year.
Alternatively, individual tax vouchers are available upon request.
To take advantage of this convenient method of payment visit www.
co. uk or contact Equiniti.
Details of 2014 dividend dates can be found in the Financial Calendar on page 175.
174 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED SCRIP DIVIDEND SCHEME The Company has the authority to offer a Scrip Dividend Scheme to shareholders giving them the opportunity to use their final and interim dividend payments to increase their holding in the Company without incurring dealing costs or stamp duty.
The Scrip Dividend Scheme requires shareholder approval and the authority currently in place is due to expire on 17 May 2014.
The Company is proposing to renew the authority for the Scrip Dividend Scheme at this years AGM.
For dividends where a scrip alternative is offered, shareholders wishing to receive a scrip dividend instead of a cash dividend should contact Equiniti for details or visit the shareholder services area of the Companys website.
AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS The Company operates a sponsored American Depositary Receipts ADR programme which is managed by JPMorgan Chase NA.
The programme allows shareholders to invest in the Company through US dollar denominated funds.
Any enquiry relating to the sponsored ADR programme should be addressed to: JPMorgan Chase & Co PO Box 64504 St Paul MN 55164-0504 USA or alternatively visit adr.
com shareholder and select Contact Us.
LOW COST SHARE DEALING FACILITIES Shareholders may purchase or sell their RSA ordinary shares through their stockbroker, a high street bank or one of the providers detailed below: Equiniti offer a telephone and internet dealing service.
Commission is currently 1.5% with a minimum charge of 50 for telephone dealing and currently 1.5% with a minimum charge of 45 for internet dealing.
For telephone sales call 44 0 845 6037 037 between 8.30am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday.
For internet sales log on to www.
Please quote your shareholder reference number.
Stocktrade also offer a telephone dealing service.
Commission is currently 0.5% on amounts up to 10,000 and 0.2% on the excess thereafter, all of which are subject to a minimum charge of 17.50.
For telephone sales call 44 0 131 240 0414 between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Please quote reference: RSA Group dial and deal service.
Alternatively visit their website, www.
Please note that rates quoted are as at February 2014 and may be subject to change.
Please contact either provider for further guidance on their full terms and conditions.
SHARE REGISTER FRAUD: PROTECTING YOUR INVESTMENT UK law requires that our shareholder register is available for public inspection.
We are unable to control the use of information obtained by persons inspecting the register.
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings or on our website.
Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount, or offers of free reports about the Company.
If you receive any unsolicited advice, make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation and check that they are appropriately authorised by the FCA by visiting www.
More information on protecting your investment can be found at http: www.
uk consumers scams investment-scams protect-yourself.
If you do receive a fraudulent approach, please advise the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams or call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
TIPS ON PROTECTING YOUR SHARES Keep any documentation that contains your shareholder reference number in a safe place and destroy any documentation you no longer require by shredding it Inform Equiniti promptly when you change your address Be aware of dividend payment dates and contact Equiniti if you do not receive your dividend cheque, or better still, make arrangements to have the dividend paid directly into your bank account Consider holding your shares electronically in a CREST account via a nominee.
SHAREGIFT Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which makes it uneconomic to sell them, may wish to consider donating them to charity through ShareGift, a registered charity administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, registered charity number 1052686.
The relevant share transfer form can be obtained from Equiniti.
Further details can be obtained from www.
