176 FINANCIAL ST JARGON BUSTER ATEMENTS INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION JARGON BUSTER Below is a simple explanation of some of the key technical terms used within this report.
Term Definition Affinity S elling insurance through a partners distribution network, usually to a group of similar customers, e. g. store card holders, alumni groups, unions and utility company customers.
Capacity L argest amount of insurance available from a company.
C an also refer to the largest amount of insurance or reinsurance available in the marketplace.
Capital T he money invested in the Group.
This includes the money invested by shareholders and profits retained within the Group.
Claims Frequency A verage number of claims per policy over the year.
Claims Handling Expenses T he administrative cost of processing a claim salary costs, costs of running claims centres, etc.
and allocated shares of the costs of head office units.
Not the cost of the claim itself.
Claims Ratio Loss Ratio P ercentage of Net Earned Premiums which is paid out in claims and Claims Handling Expenses.
Claims Reserve Provision for Losses and R eserve established by the Group to reflect the estimated cost of claims payments and related Loss Adjustment Expenses expenses that we estimate we will ultimately be required to pay.
Claims Severity A verage cost of claims incurred over the period.
Combined Operating Ratio COR T he sum of the Claims Ratio and Expense Ratio.
M easures how much we pay out in claims and expenses for each unit of net premium received.
A C OR of less than 100% indicates that we are writing profitable business.
C alculated as: Net Incurred Claims Expenses including commissions % % Net Earned Premiums Net Written Premiums Commission A n amount paid to an intermediary such as a broker for generating business.
Commission Ratio R atio of net commission costs to Net Written Premiums.
Current Year Result T he underwriting profit or loss earned from business for which protection has been provided in the current financial period.
Earned Premium T he portion of an insurance premium for which we have already provided protection.
Economic Capital T he Groups assessment of the capital we must hold to have a high confidence of meeting our obligations given our risk appetite.
Expense Ratio P ercentage of Net Written Premiums which is paid out in operating expenses e. g. salaries, premises costs, etc.
The ratio does not include claims related expenses but can include or exclude commissions.
Exposure A m easurement of risk we are exposed to through the premiums we have written.
For example, in motor insurance one vehicle insured for one year is one unit of exposure.
Financial Conduct Authority FCA T he regulatory authority for the conduct of the UK financial services industry.
Gross Written Premium GWP T otal premium written or processed in the period, irrespective of whether it has been paid.
IBNR Incurred but Not Reported A r eserve for accidents or incidents that have occurred but which have not yet been reported to us.
IGD Capital Requirement I nsurance Groups Directive capital is the capital the Group is required to hold based on standard calculations defined by the FSA under the EU Solvency 1 directive.
Insurance Result T his is a measure of how well we have done, including both our underwriting result and investment performance.
Net Asset Value NAV T he value of the Group calculated by subtracting our total liabilities including loan capital from our total assets.
This represents the funds that would be available to ordinary shareholders if the Group were wound up.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 177 Term Definition Net Earned Premium NEP T he portion of Net Written Premiums for which we have already provided protection.
This is included as income in the period.
Net Incurred Claims NIC T he total claims cost incurred in the period less any share to be paid by reinsurers.
It includes both claims payments and movements in claims reserves in the period.
Net Written Premium NWP N et Written Premium is premium written or processed in the period, irrespective of whether it has been paid, less the amount paid out in reinsurance premiums.
Portfolio Management M anagement of a group of similar risks, these are usually grouped by geography and line of business.
Prior Year Result P rofit or loss generated by settling claims incurred in a previous year at a better or worse level than the previous estimated cost.
Property and Casualty P&C P roperty insurance covers loss or damage through fire, theft, floods, storms and other Non Life Insurance or General Insurance specified risks.
Casualty insurance primarily covers losses arising from accidents that cause injury to other people or damage to the property of others.
Prudential Regulation Authority PRA T he regulatory authority with responsibility for the prudential regulation and supervision of the UK financial services industry.
Rate T he price of a unit of insurance based on a standard risk for one year.
Actual premium charged to the customer may differ from the rate due to individual risk characteristics and marketing discounts.
Reinsurance T he practice whereby we transfer part or all of the risk we have accepted to another insurer the reinsurer.
Run-off A s ituation where an insurer is no longer underwriting new business but continues to meet its liabilities under existing contracts.
Solvency II N ew capital adequacy regime for the European insurance industry.
Establishes a revised set of EU wide capital requirements and risk management standards.
Scrip Dividend W here shareholders choose to receive the dividend in the form of additional shares rather than cash.
The Group issues new shares to meet the scrip demand.
Total Shareholder Return A m easure of performance based on the overall value to shareholders of their investment in the Group over a period of time.
Includes the movement in the share price and dividends paid, expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning of the period.
Underlying Return on Average Equity A m easure of the profits the Group earns, adjusted for profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries, reorganisation and integration costs and acquisition costs, relative to average funds attributable to ordinary shareholders.
Underwriting Result T his is a measure of how well the Group has done excluding its investment performance and is calculated as: NEP Claims including Claims Handling Expenses Expenses including commissions.
Unearned Premium T he portion of a premium that relates to future periods, for which protection has not yet been provided, irrespective of whether the premium has been paid or not.
Yield R ate of return on an investment in percentage terms.
T he dividend payable on a share expressed as a percentage of the market price.
178 178 FINANCIAL ST NOTES ATEMENTS NOTES RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 179 Important disclaimer This document contains forward-looking statements with respect to certain of the Groups plans and its current goals and expectations relating to its future financial condition, performance, results, strategic initiatives and objectives.
Generally, words such as may, could, will, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, aim, outlook, believe, plan, seek, continue, potential or similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements.
By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances which are beyond the Groups control, including amongst other things, UK domestic, Eurozone and global economic business conditions, market-related risks such as fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates, the policies and actions of governments, central banks and regulatory authorities including changes related to capital and solvency requirements whether in the UK, Eurozone or globally, the impact of competition, inflation, deflation, the timing impact and other uncertainties of future acquisitions or combinations within relevant industries, as well as the impact of tax and other legislation or regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Group and its affiliates operate.
The Groups actual future financial condition, performance and results may differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations set forth in the Groups forward-looking statements and, as a result, these forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance of the Group and undue reliance should not be placed on them.
The Group undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, save in respect of any requirement under applicable law or regulation.
Neither the content of RSAs website nor the content of any other website accessible from hyperlinks on RSAs website is incorporated into, or forms part of, this document.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 Designed and produced by Salterbaxter Photograph of Tony OConnell by Dave Chan Important disclaimer This document contains forward-looking statements with respect to certain of the Groups plans and its current goals and expectations relating to its future financial condition, performance, results, strategic initiatives and objectives.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 www.
