Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Meeting 1.
Ordinary shareholders are entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and to appoint one or more proxies, who need not be a shareholder, as their proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
If you wish to appoint a person other than the Chairman as your proxy, please insert the name of your chosen proxy holder in the space provided at the top of the form.
If the proxy is being appointed in relation to less than your full voting entitlement, please enter in the box next to the proxy holders name the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy.
If left blank your proxy will be deemed to be authorised in respect of your full voting entitlement or if this proxy form has been issued in respect of a designated account for a shareholder, the full voting entitlement for that designated account.
Additional proxy forms can be obtained by contacting the Companys Registrars, Equiniti Limited, on 0800 032 0641 or 44 0 121 415 0207 for overseas callers, or you may photocopy the attached proxy form.
Please indicate in the box next to the proxy holders name the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy.
Please also indicate by ticking the box provided if the proxy instruction is one of multiple instructions being given.
Completion and return of a form of proxy will not preclude a member from attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person.
On a vote by show of hands, every ordinary shareholder who is present in person has one vote and every duly appointed proxy who is present has one vote.
On a poll vote, every ordinary shareholder who is present in person or by way of a proxy has one vote for every share of which he she is a holder.
The Vote Withheld option on the proxy form is provided to enable you to abstain on any particular resolution.
However it should be noted that a Vote Withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes For and Against a resolution.
A proxy form must be signed and dated by the shareholder or his or her attorney duly authorised in writing.
In the case of joint holdings, any one holder may sign this form.
The vote of the senior joint holder who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holder and for this purpose seniority will be determined by the order in which the names appear on the Register of Members in respect of the joint holding.
To be valid, proxy form s must be completed and returned to the Companys Registrars, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, in the enclosed envelope together with any power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a copy of such authority certified notarially, to arrive no later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting, or an adjourned meeting.
Shareholders may also appoint a proxy to vote on the resolutions being put to the meeting electronically at http: www.
Shareholders who are not registered to vote electronically, will need to enter the Voting ID and Shareholder Reference ID set out in their personalised proxy form.
Alternatively, shareholders who have already registered with Equinitis Shareview service can appoint a proxy by logging onto their portfolio at www.
co. uk and clicking on the link to vote.
The on-screen instructions give details on how to complete the appointment process.
Please note that to be valid, your proxy instructions must be received by Equiniti no later than 11.30 a. m. on 28 January 2014.
If you have any difficulties with online voting, you should contact the shareholder helpline on 0800 032 0641 or 44 0 121 415 0207 for overseas callers.
If an ordinary shareholder submits more than one valid proxy appointment, the appointment received last before the latest time for receipt of proxies will take precedence.
Shareholders may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of Annual General Meeting or any related documents to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than expressly stated.
Representatives of shareholders that are corporations will have to produce evidence of their proper appointment when attending the Annual General Meeting.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him or her and the shareholder by whom he or she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he or she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of ordinary shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in note 1 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in that note can only be exercised by ordinary shareholders of the Company.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company has specified that only those shareholders registered in the Register of members of the Company at 6.00 p. m. on 28 January 2013, or 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the date of an adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the Register of Members after 6.00 p. m. on 28 January 2013 shall be disregarded in determining the right of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST manual.
The CREST manual can be viewed at www.
A CREST message appointing a proxy a CREST proxy instruction regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction previously given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments.
Copies of the terms of appointment of the non-executive Directors and a statement of all transactions of each Director and of his family interests in the shares of the Company, will be available for inspection by any member of the Company at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday English public holidays excepted and at the Annual General Meeting by any attendee, for at least 15 minutes prior to, and during, the Annual General Meeting.
None of the Directors has a contract of service with the Company.
The biographies of the Directors offering themselves for re-election are set out on the inside front cover of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2013.
As at 13 December 2013, 169,700,716 Ordinary shares of 10 pence each were in issue no shares were held in Treasury.
The Subscription shares carry no voting rights, therefore the total number of voting rights of the Company as at 13 December 2013 was 169,700,716.
A copy of this Notice of meeting, which includes details of shareholder voting rights, together with any other information as required under Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, is available from the Companys website, www.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company must cause to be answered at the Annual General Meeting any question relating to the business being dealt with at the AGM which is put by a member attending the meeting, except in certain circumstances, including if it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered or if to do so would involve the disclosure of confidential information.
Copies of the proposed amended Articles of Association are available from the Company Secretary and will be on display at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday English public holidays excepted.
They will also be available for inspection by any person attending the Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to, and during, the Meeting.
The proposed amendment is explained in the Report of the Directors on page 17 of the Annual Report.
46 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Company Summary and Shareholder Information The Company Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc was established in 1995.
It is an independent investment trust whose shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
As at 13 December 2013, the Company had 169,700,716 Ordinary shares of 10p each in issue no shares were held in treasury.
The Companys assets are managed and it is administered by Schroders.
The Company measures its performance on a total return basis against the MSCI All Countries Asia ex Japan Index in Sterling terms.
It is not intended that the Company should have a limited life, but the Directors consider it desirable that the shareholders should have the opportunity to review the future of the Company at appropriate intervals.
Accordingly, the Articles of Association of the Company contain provisions requiring the Directors to put a proposal for the continuation of the Company to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2016 and thereafter at five yearly intervals.
Website and Price Information The Company has a dedicated website, which may be found at www.
The website has been designed to be utilised as the Companys primary method of electronic communication with shareholders.
It contains details of the Companys share price subject to a delay of 15 minutes and copies of Report and Accounts and other documents published by the Company as well as information on the Directors, Terms of Reference of Committees and other governance arrangements.
In addition, the site contains links to announcements made by the Company to the market, Equinitis shareview service and Schroders website.
There is also a section entitled How to Invest which provides details of the Schroder ISA.
The Company releases its net asset value on both a cum and ex income basis to the market on a daily basis.
Share price information may also be found in the Financial Times and on Schroders website at www.
R egistrar Services Communications with shareholders are mailed to the address held on the register.
Any notifications and enquiries relating to shareholdings, including a change of address or other amendment should be directed to Equiniti Limited at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
The helpline telephone number of Equiniti Registrars is 0800 032 0641.
Calls to this number are free of charge from UK landlines.
Equiniti maintain a web-based enquiry service for shareholders.
Currently the Shareview site address below contains information available on public registers.
Shareholders will be invited to enter their name, shareholder reference account number and post code and will be able to view information on their own holding.
Association of Investment Companies The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Companies.
Further information on this association can be found on its website, www.
