Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc will be held at 11.30 a. m. on Thursday, 30 January 2014 at 31 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QA, to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, of which resolutions 1 to11 will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and resolutions 12 and 13 will be proposed as Special Resolutions: 1.
To receive the Report of the Directors and the audited Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2013.
To approve a final dividend of 3.35p per share for the financial year ended 30 September 2013.
To approve the Companys Directors Remuneration Policy.
To approve the Directors Annual Report on Remuneration for the year ended 30 September 2013.
Rupert Carington as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Robert Binyon as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mrs Rosemary Morgan as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Anthony Fenn as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Nicholas Smith as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors of the Company.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of  LLP as Auditors of the Company.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution: That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 693 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act of Ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company Shares, at whatever discount the prevailing market price represents to the prevailing net asset value per share provided that: a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 25,438,137, representing 14.99% of the issued Ordinary share capital as at 13 December 2013: b the minimum price which may be paid for a share is 10p: c the maximum price which may be paid for a share is an amount equal to the greater of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for a share taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade in the shares of that class and the highest then current independent bid for the shares of that class on the London Stock Exchange: d purchases may only be made pursuant to this authority if the shares are at the date of the proposed purchase trading on the London Stock Exchange at a discount to net asset value: e the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company unless such authority is renewed or revoked prior to such time: and f the Company may make a contract to purchase shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution: That the draft Articles of Association set out in the document produced to this meeting and signed by the Chairman of the meeting for the purposes of identification be and hereby are approved and adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association of the Company.
By Order of the Board Registered Office: Schroder Investment Management Limited 31 Gresham Street Company Secretary London EC2V 7QA Registered Number: 3104981 13 December 2013 45
