Governance Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing The Directors are also required by the The Directors report contained in this the Annual Report and the Consolidated Disclosure and Transparency Rules Annual Report and Accounts which financial statements in accordance with of the FCA to include a management comprises the sections described applicable law and regulations.
report containing a fair review of the onpage 82, includes a fair review business and a description of the ofthedevelopment and performance The Companies Act 2006, being the principal risks and uncertainties facing ofthebusiness and the position of applicable law in the UK, requires the the Company and Group.
theCompany and the Group and a Directors to prepare financial statements description of the principal risks and for each financial year.
The Directors have The Directors are responsible for keeping uncertainties that they face: prepared the Group and the Company proper books of accounting records that So far as the Director is aware, there is financial statements in accordance are sufficient to show and explain the no relevant audit information of which the with International Financial Reporting Companys transactions and disclose Companys auditors are unaware: and Standards IFRS as adopted by the with reasonable accuracy at any time The Director has taken all the steps that European Union EU.
The financial the financial position of the Company ought to have been taken as a Director statements are required by law to give a and the Group and to enable them to in order to make himself or herself aware true and fair view of the state of affairs of ensure that the financial statements and of any relevant audit information and to the Company and the Group and of the the Remuneration report comply with establish that the Companys auditors profit or loss of the Group for that period.
the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards are aware of that information.
the Group financial statements, Article 4 In preparing those financial statements of the International Accounting Standards In addition, each of the Directors considers the Directors are required to: Regulation.
They are also responsible for that this Annual Report and Accounts, Select suitable accounting policies safeguarding the assets of the Company taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and and then apply them consistently: and the Group and hence for taking understandable and provides the Make judgements and estimates reasonable steps for the prevention and information necessary for shareholders that are reasonable and prudent: detection of fraud and other irregularities.
to assess the Companys performance, State that the financial statements business model and strategy.
comply with IFRS as adopted by Directors statement the EU, subject to any material Each of the Directors, whose name The Directors are responsible for the departure disclosed and explained and functions are listed in the Board of maintenance and integrity of the audited in the financial statements: and Directors section of this Annual Report financial information on our website at Prepare the financial statements on and Accounts, confirms that, to the best www.
a going concern basis, unless it is of each persons knowledge and belief: inappropriate to presume that the Group The consolidated financial statements, Legislation in the UK governing the will continue in business, in which case prepared in accordance with IFRS as preparation and dissemination of there should be supporting assumptions adopted by the EU and in accordance financial statements may differ from or qualifications as necessary.
with the Companies Act 2006, give a legislation in other jurisdictions.
true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the Group: Forward-looking statements This Annual Report and Accounts and looking statements.
There are a number of the Schroders website may contain factors that could cause actual results or forward-looking statements with respect developments to differ materially from those to the financial condition, performance and expressed or implied by forward-looking position, strategy, results of operations and statements and forecasts.
Forward-looking businesses of the Group.
Such statements and statements and forecasts are based on the forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because Directors current view and information known they are based on current expectations and to them at the date of this Annual Report and assumptions but relate to events and depend Accounts.
The Directors do not make any upon circumstances in the future.
Without undertaking to update or revise any forwardlimitation, any statements preceded or followed looking statements, whether as a result of by or that include the words targets, plans, new information, future events or otherwise.
believes, expects, aims, or anticipates or Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts the negative of these terms or other similar should be construed as a profit forecast.
terms are intended to identify such forwardSchroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 83 Developing and retaining a deep pool of talent This is key to organisational stability and long-term success.
The Group has more than 3,500 employees across 27 countries.
95%employee retention 84 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial report Financial review 86 Consolidated financial statements 89 Notes to the accounts 98 Schroders plc financial statements 147 Independent auditors report 155 Five-year consolidated financial summary 159 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 85
