Investor Information In addition to these products, you can buy SIT shares directly How to Invest on the stockmarket through a stockbroker.
Your bank, lawyer, The companys wholly-owned subsidiary, SIT Savings Ltd, accountant or other professional adviser may also be able to provides a number of low-cost, flexible investment products help with this.
SITs registrar, Computershare Investor Services which enable investors to acquire SIT shares easily.
PLC, provides a sharedealing service which can be accessed on its website, www.
co. uk or by telephoning STOCKPLAN 0870 703 0195.
SITs investment trust savings scheme is one of the most cost-effective available.
There is no initial plan charge, other than Update on Tax-Efficient Investing stamp duty and dealing spread, and no annual charge.
It costs ISAs just 11.95 to sell some or all of your holding.
STOCKPLAN allows you to invest regularly minimum investment 25 per The overall annual ISA investment limit is currently 11,520. month and or with a lump sum minimum investment 250.
Up to the full 11,520 can be invested in a stocks and shares There is no maximum investment limit and you can stop and ISA with one provider.
Alternatively, up to 5,760 can be restart investing at any time.
saved in a cash ISA with one provider: the remainder of the 11,520 can be invested in a stocks and shares ISA with either the same or another provider.
STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start The annual ISA investment limit is indexed annually in line SITs investing for children plan is based on the STOCKPLAN with the Consumer Prices Index CPI for the September scheme.
It benefits from the same low charges and flexibility before the start of each new tax year.
and can be opened in one of two ways: either as a designated The annual ISA investment limit for the 2014 15 tax year is plan or, more formally, as a bare trust.
Up to 5,940 may be placed in a cash ISA and the Start enables family and friends to invest on behalf of a child remainder can be invested in a stocks and shares ISA with to help build savings for the future.
either the same or another provider.
Alternatively, the full 11,880 can be invested in a stocks and shares ISA with The SIT ISA one provider.
This is one of the lowest-charging investment trust company Transfers from previous years cash ISAs into stocks and stocks and shares ISAs on offer.
There is no initial plan charge, shares ISAs are permitted and do not count against the other than stamp duty and dealing spread, nor are there current years investment.
The annual management fee of 0.6% of the value of the investment is currently capped at 30 Contact Telephone Numbers VAT regardless of how much your SIT ISA investment grows Full contact details for SITs scheme administrators and SITs or how many years ISA allowances you have invested with SIT.
registrar can be found in the Useful Addresses section on page 50.
The SIT ISA Transfer SIT can accept the transfer of existing stocks and shares ISAs STOCKPLAN and ISA investors wishing to: from other qualifying managers into The SIT ISA at any time give a change of address without losing the ISAs tax status.
SIT can also accept the instruct a sale transfer of cash ISAs into The SIT ISA.
This would turn the request a valuation cash ISA being transferred into a stocks and shares ISA.
make an investment using their debit card SIT makes no charge for transfers in.
However, the current change the amount of their monthly investment ISA manager may charge for administering the transfer out.
obtain help with accessing their STOCKPLAN and ISA information online The SIT SIPP make general queries about their account or scheme This allows investment into SIT through a low-cost, flexible, self-invested personal pension.
The wide choice of investments can contact the scheme administrator, Halifax Share Dealing available, including SIT, enables you to tailor the investment Limited HSDL, on: 0845 850 0181. combination in the SIPP to suit your particular needs and objectives whether you are just starting to contribute to your SIT SIPP investors with questions about the administration of pension or are approaching retirement.
You can open a SIT their SIPP, or any other pension-related enquiry, can contact SIPP even if you are already an active member of an employers the SIPP administrator, AJ Bell Management Limited, on: pension scheme or are contributing to other pension plans.
You can also set up a SIT SIPP for a child or a non-earning spouse or partner.
Shareholders who hold share certificates can contact the registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, on: 0870 703 0195.
44 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 Investor Information continued Please note, you will need your Share Dealing Personal Dividends Reference Number PRN to access this service.
If you do not The following dividends have been paid or proposed during 2013: have this, please contact SITs scheme administrator, HSDL, Record Payment on 0845 850 0181.
Dividends Amount XD date date date SIPP investors 2 January 4 January 4 February SIPP investors can set up monthly payments, buy and Final 2012 6.65p 2013 2013 2013 sell shares and access their account online, by visiting 12 June 14 June 15 July www.
co. uk online Interim 2013 4.80p 2013 2013 2013 Shareholders who hold share certificates 31 December 3 January 5 February Final 2013 6.80p 2013 2014 2014 Investors who hold share certificates can check their holdings by registering on SITs registrars website, 31 December 3 January 5 February Special 2013 1.80p 2013 2014 2014 www.
co. uk or through the link in the investor relations section on SITs website, www.
co. uk Please note that to access this facility, investors will need to quote the SIT STOCKPLAN and ISA schemes shareholder reference number shown on their share certificate.
The STOCKPLAN and ISA schemes provide automatic reinvestment of dividends.
However, they also allow for By registering for the Investors Centre facility on dividends to be taken as income, if required.
STOCKPLAN Computershares website, investors can also view details of all and ISA holders should contact the scheme administrator, their holdings for which Computershare is registrar, as well as HSDL, on 0845 850 0181 if they would like to change their access additional facilities and documentation.
co. uk for further information.
Shareholders who hold share certificates Conversely, for shareholders who hold share certificates Electronic Communications investors whose names are on SITs share register and who Shareholders who hold share certificates are not in SITs schemes dividends are automatically paid as If you hold share certificates i. e. you are not in the income.
However, it is easy to arrange to have these dividends STOCKPLAN, ISA or SIPP schemes, nor in a brokers reinvested by joining SITs Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
nominee, you may choose to receive SITs interim and annual Details are available from Computershare Investor Services, reports and other shareholder communications electronically SITs registrar, on 0870 703 0195, or from the investor relations instead of in paper form.
To register, simply visit the link in the section on SITs website, www.
co. uk investor relations section on SITs website, www.
co. uk and provide your email details.
You will then be advised by email Monitoring Your Investment when an electronic communication is available to be accessed.
SITs share price, together with performance information and product details, can be found on SITs website, www.
co. uk Shareholders Meetings A number of financial websites, such as the FT, www.
ft. com and Shareholders who hold share certificates the London Stock Exchange, www.
com Investors who hold share certificates are entitled to attend carry share price information.
In addition, the share price is and vote at the AGM and other general meetings.
Notices of published daily in most quality newspapers.
meetings and proxy cards are sent to their registered addresses.
SIT publishes a daily NAV and a monthly factsheet on STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start, ISA, and SIPP its website.
An interim report is issued in June of each investors who invest in SIT year and the annual report is distributed to all investors STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start, ISA, and SIPP in late December.
investors who invest in SIT are entitled to attend the AGM and other general meetings and vote by completing and STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start and ISA investors returning the form of direction enclosed with this report.
receive twice yearly statements of their holdings and SITs investor newsletter is issued twice yearly.
The AGM will be held at the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh, 9 Queen Street, Edinburgh EH2 1JQ, Accessing Your Account Online on 31 January 2014 at 10.30am.
ISA, STOCKPLAN and STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start designated scheme investors The above scheme investors may view their accounts online by registering with .
This can be accessed through the links in the various product sections on SITs website, www.
co. uk online Report & Accounts 2013 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 45 Investor Information continued Electronic Voting Investor Relations and Compliance Manager Shareholders who hold share certificates Alan Jamieson Shareholders who hold share certificates are able to submit proxy votes electronically for the AGM.
Please follow the Marketing Manager SIT Savings Ltd instructions on your proxy card.
Sherry-Ann Sweeting Personal Taxation Income Tax Currently, all UK dividends are paid to shareholders net of a tax credit of 10%.
Non-tax payers cannot reclaim the tax credit.
Non-ISA shareholders liable to higher rates of tax will be assessed for any additional tax through their annual tax return.
Capital Gains Tax CGT When investors sell all or part of their holdings, they may be liable to CGT.
Currently, the first 10,900 per annum of such gains from all sources is exempt.
For investors who acquired shares prior to 31 March 1982, the cost for CGT purposes may be based on the price on that date of 41.472p.
Investors who are in any doubt as to their liability for CGT should seek professional advice.
ISA investments remain exempt from CGT.
Please remember that we are unable to offer individual investment or tax advice.
If you require such advice, you should consult your professional adviser.
STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start and The SIT ISA are provided by SIT Savings Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA, 25 The North Colonnade, Canary Wharf, London E14 5HS.
Risk Warning Past performance may not be repeated and is not a guide to future performance.
The value of shares and the income from them can go down as well as up as a result of market and currency fluctuations.
You may not get back the amount you invest.
The Scottish Investment Trust PLC has a long-term policy of borrowing money to invest in equities in the expectation that this will improve returns but should stockmarkets fall, such borrowings would magnify losses on these investments.
SIT can buy back and cancel its own shares.
All other things being equal, this would have the effect of increasing gearing.
Investment in SIT is intended as a long-term investment.
Tax rates and reliefs can change in the future and the value of any tax advantages will depend on personal circumstances.
46 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013
