North St. Andrew Street North St. David Street Hanover Street Hanover Street The Mound Frederick Street Frederick Street Waverley Bridge Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and twenty-sixth annual general meeting of The Scottish Investment Trust PLC will be held at The Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh, 9 Queen Street, Edinburgh EH2 1JQ, on 31 January 2014 at 10.30am, for the purpose of transacting the following: 1.
To receive and consider the directors report and statement of accounts for the year to 31 October 2013.
To approve the directors remuneration policy.
To approve the directors remuneration report for the year to 31 October 2013.
To declare a final dividend of 6.80p per share.
To declare a special dividend of 1.80p per share.
To re-elect Mr Douglas McDougall as a director.
To re-elect Mr Hamish Buchan as a director.
To re-elect Mr James MacLeod as a director.
To re-elect Mr Russell Napier as a director.
To elect Mr James Will as a director.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
To authorise the company, in accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and in substitution for any pre-existing such authority, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 of the Act of shares of 25p each for cancellation, provided that: a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 16,478,495 or, if less, 14.99% of the aggregate issued shares on the date this resolution is passed: b the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall be 25p: c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a share shall be the higher of: i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out: d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 30 April 2015, save that the company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase shares under such authority which will or might be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract.
All resolutions are ordinary resolutions except number 12 which is a special resolution.
Steven Hay Company Secretary 12 December 2013 Map showing location of AGM venue Queen Street Gardens St. Andrew Square Scott Monument Waverley Railway Station Royal Scottish Academy West Princes Street Gardens University of Edinburgh Report & Accounts 2013 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 47 b y m o P r l c r a e c b e A Heriot Row Queen Street George Street Princes Street Notice of Meeting continued purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as Notes determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the Arrangements have been made to enable all investors to CREST Application Host from which the companys registrar attend, speak and vote at the annual general meeting.
is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change Registered shareholders whose names appear on the companys of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should register of members no later than 48 hours excluding nonbe communicated to the appointee by other means.
working days prior to the commencement of the AGM or any adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend, speak and vote or CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST be represented at the meeting in respect of the shares registered sponsors or voting service provider s should note that in their name at that time.
Changes to the register of members Euroclear UK and Ireland Limited does not make available after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is A member entitled to attend, speak and vote at the meeting is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, vote on his or her behalf.
If a shareholder wishes to appoint more or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service than one proxy, each proxy must be appointed to exercise rights provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting attaching to a different share or shares held by the shareholder.
service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary A proxy need not be a member of the company but must attend to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the the AGM to represent the relevant shareholder.
Shareholders CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, may not use any electronic address provided either in this CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST notice or any related documents, including the proxy form, sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in to communicate with the company for any purpose other particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning than those expressly stated.
practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
A proxy may only be appointed using the procedure set out in The company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction these notes and the notes to the proxy form.
Proxy forms and the in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the original or duly certified copy of the power of attorney or other Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. authority, if any, under which it is signed or authenticated, must be lodged with the companys registrar not less than 48hours Any person holding 3% or more of the total voting rights in the excluding non-working days before the meeting or, in the case company who appoints a person other than the chairman as of a poll taken more than 48 hours after it was demanded, not his proxy will need to ensure that both he and such third party less than 24 hours, excluding non-working days, before the time comply with their respective disclosure obligations under the appointed for the taking of the poll.
Completion of the proxy form Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
On 12 December 2013, will not prevent a member from attending the meeting and voting the companys issued share capital comprised 109,929,926 in person.
shares none of which is held in treasury.
Each share carries the right to one vote at a general meeting of the company.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies Accordingly, as at 12 December 2013, the total number of through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may voting rights exercisable at the meeting was 109,929,926. do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual and by logging on to the website www.
Shareholders may require the company to publish, on its CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored website, without payment, a statement, which is also passed members and those CREST members who have appointed to the auditor, setting out any matter relating to the audit of the a voting service provider, should refer to their CREST companys accounts, including the auditors report and the sponsor or voting service provider who will be able to conduct of the audit, which they intend to raise at the meeting.
take the appropriate action on their behalf.
The company will be required to do so once it has received such requests from either i members representing at least For a proxy appointment or instruction made using the 5% of the total voting rights of the company or ii at least CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message 100 members who have rights to vote and hold shares in the a CREST Proxy instruction must be properly authenticated company on which there has been paid up an average sum in accordance with Euroclear UK and Ireland Limiteds per member of at least 100.
Such requests must be made in specifications, and must contain the information required for writing and must state the members full name and address such instruction, as described in the CREST manual.
The and be sent to the companys registered office at 6 Albyn message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment Place, Edinburgh, EH2 4NL.
The company may not require of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a the members requesting any such website publication to pay previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the transmitted so as to be received by the companys registrar Companies Act 2006.
Computershare Investor Services PLC CREST ID number 3RA50 no later than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the time of the meeting or any adjournment.
For this 48 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 Notice of Meeting continued Further information regarding the meeting including the information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 is available from www.
co. uk Under section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the company must answer any question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting put by a member attending the meeting unless: a answering the question would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
The directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the registered office of the company during normal business hours on any weekday.
The register of directors interests maintained by the company together with copies of directors appointment letters will be available at the place of the annual general meeting from 15 minutes prior to the commencement of the annual general meeting until the conclusion thereof.
No director has any service contract with the company.
STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start, ISA and SIPP investors who invest in SIT are welcome to attend and may vote by completing the Form of Direction enclosed with this report.
This must be returned to the companys registrar no later than 10.30 am on 24 January 2014.
Other investors whose holdings are in nominee names and who wish to attend and vote are advised to contact their nominee before 24 January 2014.
The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 5 February 2014 to shareholders registered at the close of business on 3 January 2014.
This report was sent to the address at present registered for communications.
Any change of address should be notified to the companys registrar or the savings scheme administrator as appropriate.
Report & Accounts 2013 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 49
