Accounting Policies A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out in f Finance Costs paragraphs a to j below.
All have been applied consistently Interest payable is charged one-half to revenue reserve throughout the current and the preceding year: and one-half to capital reserve in line with the directors expectations of long-term future returns from the companys a Basis of Accounting investments 2012: same.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern The discount on, and expenses of issue of, the secured bonds basis see page 18 under the historical cost convention, due 2030 are included in the financing costs of the issue which modified to include the revaluation of investments at fair value, are being written off over the life of the bonds.
and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
The companys accounting policies comply with g Taxation the AIC Statement of Recommended Practice SORP issued Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid in January 2009 Financial Statements of Investment Trust or recovered.
Companies and Venture Capital Trusts.
Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which result b Valuation of Investments in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a Listed investments and current asset investments are valued at right to pay less tax, at a future date.
Timing differences arise fair value through profit and loss.
Fair value is the closing bid from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation or last traded price according to the recognised convention of computations in periods different from those in which they are the markets on which they are quoted.
Where trading in the included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are securities of an investee company is suspended, the investment recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than is valued at the boards estimate of its net realisable value.
not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities Where appropriate, the directors have adopted the guidelines are not discounted.
The company has no deferred tax asset issued by the International Private Equity and Venture Capital or liability.
Association for the valuation of unlisted investments.
Heritable property is included at a professional valuation.
Depreciation h Foreign Currency is not charged on heritable property as it is not material.
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the local currency at actual exchange rates at the date of the Realised surpluses or deficits on the disposal of investments, transaction or, where appropriate, at the rate of exchange in permanent impairments in the value of investments and a related forward contract.
Assets and liabilities denominated unrealised surpluses and deficits on the revaluation of in foreign currencies at the year end are reported at the rates investments are taken to capital reserve as explained of exchange prevailing at the year end.
Any gain or loss arising in note i below.
from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the Year end exchange rates are used to translate the value of transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in capital investments which are denominated in foreign currencies.
reserve or in the revenue account depending on whether the gain or loss is of a capital or revenue nature.
c Valuation of Debt The companys secured bonds and debentures are held at i Capital Reserve amortised cost being the nominal value of the bonds in issue The following are accounted for in this reserve: less the unamortised costs of issue.
gains and losses on the realisation of investments: realised and unrealised exchange differences of d Income a capital nature: Dividends receivable on quoted shares are brought into account realised and unrealised gains and losses on transactions on the ex-dividend date.
Dividends receivable on shares where undertaken to hedge an exposure of a capital nature: no ex-dividend date is quoted are brought into account when the funding of share and secured bond buybacks: the companys right to receive payment is established.
expenses and interest charged to capital: Interest and other income from non-equity securities, including increases and decreases in the valuation of investments debt securities, are recognised on a time apportionment basis held at the year end: and so as to reflect the effective yield on the securities.
increases and decreases in the valuation of the pension fund surplus or deficit.
Where the company elects to receive dividends in the form of additional shares scrip dividends rather than in cash, the j Pensions amount of the cash dividend is recognised as income.
Any Employer contributions for the defined benefit scheme are excess in the value of the shares received over the amount calculated by reference to the triennial actuarial valuation.
of the cash is recognised in capital reserves.
Employer contributions for the defined contribution scheme are a predetermined percentage of the employees salary.
e Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the Statement of Recognised Gains and Losses.
Investment expenses are allocated between revenue and capital reserve in line with the directors expectations of Further information on the companys pension schemes is the nature of long-term future returns from the companys contained in Note 4 to the Financial Statements on pages 31 investments 2012: same.
Expenses which are incidental to the acquisition or disposal of an investment are treated as part of the cost, or deducted from the sales proceeds, of the investment.
Report & Accounts 2013 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 25
