Five Year Summary Five Year Summary The following charts indicate how Scottish Mortgage has performed relative to its benchmark, its underlying net asset value and the retail price index over the five year period to 31 March 2013.
Five Year Total Return Performance Dividend and RPI Growth gures rebased to 100 at 31 March 2008 cumulative from 31 March 2008 gures rebased to 100 at 31 March 2008 Discount to Net Asset Value Annual Net Asset Value and Share Price Total Returns plotted on a monthly basis relative to the benchmark total return Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 03 Chairmans Statement Chairmans Statement Performance Demand for Shares The past year has seen continued progress for Scottish Mortgage I am pleased to say that over the past year the discount has with the share price reaching a new high of 862.5p in early March progressively narrowed, meaning that the share price has risen 2013, before falling back to close at 822.5p at the end of March.
faster than the underlying net asset value.
To an extent this must Over the course of the year to 31 March 2013 the share price reect the fact that the long term and global approach, which was rose by 16.2% and the net asset value NAV per share by 11.6%, adopted as a strategy by the Company ten years ago, has proved whereas the benchmark index the FTSE All-World Index in attractive to investors.
Ten years ago the discount stood at 12.5% sterling terms rose by 13.8%.
Over 10 years to end March 2013, and the following two years at 15.9% and 16.5% respectively.
At the share price total return including both capital returns and the close of the year under review it stood at 4.1%.
While dividends has been 336%, the net asset value total return, 270% performance is the primary impetus, a combination of judicious and the FTSE All-World Index total return, 174%.
The five year share buy backs as well as effective communication and gures are more modest as they still reect the impact of the marketing inuence the balance between supply and demand.
Nonetheless, over five years the total return the past year 2,475,000 shares 1% of issued share capital at the was, respectively: 53% share price, 45% NAV and 50% start of the year were bought back at discounts ranging from benchmark.
Given the long term investment approach, we 4.0% to 5.8%.
This should be seen as part of your Boards desire consider that measurements over longer periods are more to maintain the trend of a narrowing discount.
A total of 33.2 million shares have been bought back since 2006, A year ago, the prevailing attitude towards equity markets was and these are held in Treasury and are available for reissue.
The one of fear and nervousness.
In the event, there was no main advantages of reissuing shares are: the continued provision wholesale renewal of the financial crisis, the European 8nion t of good liquidity, the maintenance of scale and the further despite some testing moments emanating from Cyprus and Italy spreading of costs across a wider shareholder base.
t continues to hold together, there was progress in the 8nited Shareholders authority is being sought at the Annual General States towards a resumption of sustainable growth and at the Meeting to sell shares held in Treasury at a premium to the NAV.
same time operating conditions for many companies around the 2013 has also seen the implementation of the Retail Distribution world have been favourable.
More importantly, the Managers still Review which is designed to provide greater clarity on the true seem to nd plenty of opportunities, as can be seen from their costs associated with different types of investments.
As Scottish Report which follows.
In particular, technology in its broadest Mortgage enjoys one of the lowest expense ratios in the industry sense and the growth of developing markets continue to provide currently 0.51%, we stand to benefit.
Against this, we are fertile ground for those with a long term investment view.
Despite currently in the process of complying with the E8-wide Alternative some very significant holdings, the portfolio remains well Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD.
This has been diversied and growth opportunities are not restricted to these conceived by legislators in Brussels with, on the one hand, an two criteria.
agenda to bash hedge funds, but, on the other, with a limited understanding, at best, of how an Investment Trust operates t is Earnings and Dividend Scottish Mortgage really an Alternative Investment?
The AIFMD Earnings were strong in the past year, boosted by non recurring will, in your Boards opinion, provide little additional investor dividends, most notably from our holding in the Polish copper protection, yet it stands to add signicantly and in our view mining company KGHM.
Earnings per share totalled 15.59p unnecessarily to our annual cost base.
A final dividend of 7.3p is proposed which will give a total for the year of 14.0p per share.
Board This represents a rise of 7.7%, which is well ahead of sterling Dr Linda Yueh resigned as a Director with effect from 31 March ination currently 3.3% as measured by RPI, which means that 2013 following her appointment as BBC World News Chief we have now increased our dividend by more than prevailing Business Correspondent, based in Singapore.
The Board greatly ination for 31 years in a row.
appreciated Dr Yuehs contributions in her year with Scottish It is probable that earnings in 2013 14 will be lower than in the Mortgage and wishes her well in her new post.
past year as the Company has benefitted from the special The Annual General Meeting will be held in Edinburgh at Baillie dividends and accelerated timing of dividend receipts.
Although Giffords ofces at 4.30pm on the 18thune.
-ames Anderson the primary focus of this trust is to provide long term capital and Tom Slater will make presentations on the investments and I growth, it is the Boards intention to provide progressive and real hope you will be able to attend.
dividend growth: the existence of reserves of 26p per share would allow us, if necessary, to smooth dividend payments from year to Outlook year should the need arise.
Longer term, the outlook for dividend The past four years have seen a steady recovery in equity markets increases remains healthy.
as investor confidence has returned and many equity indices are close to, or in, new high ground.
This is happening at a time when Gearing interest rates in many markets, notably those scarred by the 2008 Scottish Mortgage remains committed to the use of gearing.
Many pension funds, driven by Gearing levels were maintained throughout the year.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
04 Annual Report 2013 Chairmans Statement regulatory requirements to match investment allocations to eventual liabilities, are increasingly investing in bonds where yields are historically low and prices high, a process sometimes referred to as fide-risking.
Fortunately, the private investor has greater exibility and can be less inhibited when it comes to asset allocation and long term equity investment which, while carrying greater risk, also offers the potential for commensurate returns.
It is to this type of investor that Scottish Mortgage is designed to appeal: we offer a high conviction equity portfolio invested across the worlds markets, constructed with little heed paid to short term performance relative to indices but with great attention to the long term fundamentals of our investee companies.
The list of potential threats to global political, economic and commercial stability is no shorter than before and, close to home, there have been concerns at the level of unemployment in several of Europes largest economies and their stubborn refusal to show any real signs of growth.
At the same time, there may be profound long term consequences of the bail-in in Cyprus, which demonstrated that, even within the E8, private bank deposits can be at risk.
However, despite the drive to austerity amongst those governments and consumers who are over-indebted, many quoted companies are enjoying favourable operating conditions.
Accepting that economic growth and stock price appreciation do not always go hand in hand, a world where the IMF forecast for annual global growth is 3.3% is a fairly benign environment, even given the continued work needed to repair and reform banking systems and to balance national budgets t especially in developed economies.
I take this opportunity to remind our shareholders that Scottish Mortgage is founded on the principle of selecting well managed companies from around the world and investing in them on a long term basis: and, thanks in part to our size, doing so in a way which costs our shareholders less than most other approaches.
The skill which your Managers display in identifying growth opportunities as well as the successful execution of individual corporate strategies will determine returns to a very great extent.
Whilst, as we are always reminded, past performance is no guide to the future, the record of our Managers in the past decade and their process for selecting investments to generate returns for the next one gives me great confidence in the investment proposition offered by Scottish Mortgage.
-ohn Scott Chairman 10 May 2013 Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 05
