Further Shareholder Information and Cost-effective Ways to Buy and Hold Shares in Scottish Mortgage Scottish Mortgage is an investment trust.
Investment Analysis of Shareholders at 31 March trusts offer investors the following: 2013 2012 participation in a diversied portfolio of shares: Number of 2013 Number of 2012 shares held % shares held % constant supervision by experienced professional managers: and Institutions 73,641,511 29.3 79,691,030 31.4 Intermediaries 125,488,897 50.0 121,178,724 47.8 the Company is free from capital gains tax on capital profits realised within its portfolio although investors are still liable for Individuals 25,686,296 10.2 27,123,112 10.7 capital gains tax on profits when selling their investment.
Baillie Gifford Share Plans ISA 25,399,029 10.1 24,379,661 9.6 These accounts have been approved by the Directors of Scottish Marketmakers 929,164 0.4 1,247,370 0.5 Mortgage Investment Trust PLC.
251,144,897 100.0 253,619,897 100.0 Cost-effective Ways to Buy and Hold Shares in Scottish Mortgage Press advertisement for Scottish Mortgage The Share Plan and ISA brochure available at www.
com Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited offers a number of The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA plans that enable you to buy and hold shares of Scottish Tax-efficient investment Mortgage cost-efficiently.
Purchases and sales are normally No set-up charge subject to a dealing price spread and Government stamp duty of Flat rate annual management charge currently of 32.50 VAT 0.5% is payable on purchases.
Lump sum investment from 2,000 currently up to a The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan maximum of 11,520 each year No initial charge Save monthly from 100 No annual wrapper charge A withdrawal charge of just 22 Normally cheaper than dealing through a stockbroker ISA Transfers Invest a lump sum from 250 or monthly from just 30 Transfer existing ISAs from other plan managers into the No maximum investment limits Baillie Gifford ISA Stop and start saving at any time with no charge Consolidate your plans into a managed global investment Twice weekly dealing usually Tuesday and Friday Minimum transfer value 2,000 A withdrawal charge of just 22 52 Annual Report 2013 Cost-effective Ways to Buy and Hold Shares in Scottish Mortgage Scottish Mortgage can buy back its own shares.
The risks The Baillie Gifford Childrens Savings Plan from borrowing, referred to above, are increased when a An excellent way for parents, grandparents or other adults to Company buys back its shares.
invest for a child Market values for securities which have become difficult to trade No initial charge may not be readily available and there can be no assurance that No annual wrapper charge any value assigned to such securities will accurately reect the The option of a designated account or a bare trust in favour of price the Company might receive upon their sale.
the child Scottish Mortgage can make use of derivatives.
The use of Flexible investment options: lump sum from 100 or monthly derivatives may impact on its performance.
saving from just 25 Scottish Mortgage charges 50% of the investment A withdrawal charge of just 22 management fee and 50% of borrowing costs to capital which reduces the capital value.
Also, where income is low, the Online Management Service remaining expenses may be greater than the total income You can also open and manage your Share Plan Childrens received, meaning Scottish Mortgage may not pay a dividend Savings Plan and or ISA online, through our secure Online and the capital value would be further reduced.
Management Service OMS which can be accessed through the You should note that tax rates and reliefs may change at any Baillie Gifford website at www.
As well as time and their value depends on your circumstances.
being able to view the details of your plan online, the service also allows you to: Details of other risks that apply to investment in the savings vehicles shown on pages 52 and 53 are contained in the Obtain current valuations: product brochures.
Make lump sum investments, except where there is more than Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC is a UK public listed one Holder: company and as such complies with the requirements of the UK Sell part or all of your holdings, except where there is more Listing Authority.
It is not authorised and regulated by the than one Holder: Financial Conduct Authority.
Switch between investment trusts, except where there is Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited BGSM is the manager more than one Holder: and of The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan, The Baillie Gifford Childrens Savings Plan and The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Update certain personal details e. g. address and telephone ISA.
BGSM is wholly owned by Baillie Gifford & Co, the Managers number.
and Secretaries of Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC.
BGSM Please note that a bare trust cannot be opened via OMS.
A bare and Baillie Gifford & Co are authorised and regulated by the trust application form must be completed.
Certain restrictions Financial Conduct Authority and both are based at Calton Square, apply for accounts where there is more than one holder.
Risks The staff of Baillie Gifford & Co, and or the Directors of Scottish Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
Mortgage may hold shares in Scottish Mortgage or may buy or sell shares from time to time.
Scottish Mortgage is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
As a result, the value of its shares and any income from them can fall as well as rise and investors may not get back the amount invested.
Scottish Mortgage invests in overseas securities.
Changes in the rates of exchange may also cause the value of your investment and any income it may pay to go down or up.
Scottish Mortgage invests in emerging markets where difficulties in dealing, settlement and custody could arise, resulting in a negative impact on the value of your investment.
Scottish Mortgage has borrowed money to make further investments sometimes known as gearing.
The risk is that when this money is repaid by the Company, the value of these investments may not be enough to cover the borrowing and interest costs, and the Company will make a loss.
If the Companys investments fall in value, any borrowings will increase the amount of this loss.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 53
