Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements amount, the impact of these returns on the effective interest rate 1 Principal Accounting Policies is recognised once such returns are known.
If there is reasonable The financial statements for the year to 31 March 2013 have been doubt that a return will be received, its recognition is deferred until prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set out below, which that doubt is removed.
are unchanged from last year and have been applied consistently.
iii Franked income is stated net of tax credits.
a Basis of Accounting The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis iv Unfranked investment income includes the taxes deducted at under the historical cost convention, modied to include the source.
revaluation of xed asset investments, and on the assumption that v Interest receivable on deposits is recognised on an accruals approval as an investment trust will be retained.
The Directors consider the Companys functional currency to be vi If scrip is taken in lieu of dividends in cash, the net amount of the sterling as the Companys shareholders are predominantly based in cash dividend declared is credited to the revenue account.
Any the UK and the Company and its investment manager, who are excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the subject to the UKs regulatory environment, are also UK based.
cash dividend foregone is recognised as capital.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with The vii Special dividends are treated as repayments of capital or income Companies Act 2006, applicable UK Accounting Standards and with depending on the facts of each particular case.
the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of e Expenses Investment Trust Companies issued inanuary 2009.
All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses are In order to reect better the activities of the trust and in accordance charged through the revenue column of the income statement except with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which as follows: where they relate directly to the acquisition or disposal of analyses the profit and loss account between items of a revenue and an investment transaction costs, in which case they are recognised capital nature has been presented in the income statement.
as capital within losses gains on investments: and where they are Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the connected with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of Companys balance sheet when it becomes a party to the contractual investments, in which case they are charged 50:50 to the revenue provisions of the instrument.
b Investments f Long Term Borrowings and Finance Costs Purchases and sales of investments are accounted for on a trade date Long term borrowings are carried in the balance sheet at amortised basis.
All investments are designated as valued at fair value through cost, representing the cumulative amount of net proceeds after issue, profit or loss upon initial recognition and are measured at subsequent plus accrued finance costs attributable to the stepped interest reporting dates at fair value.
The fair value of listed security debentures.
The finance costs of such borrowings are allocated 50:50 investments is bid value, or in the case of FTSE 100 constituents, at to the revenue column of the income statement and capital reserve at a last traded prices issued by the London Stock Exchange.
constant rate on the carrying amount.
Issue costs are written off at a constant rate over the life of the borrowings.
Gains and losses on the Listed investments include Open Ended Investment Companies repurchase or early settlement of debt is wholly charged to capital.
OEICs authorised in the UK: these are valued at closing price and are classied for valuation purposes according to the principal g Taxation geographical area of the underlying holdings.
The tax effect of different items of income and expenditure is allocated between revenue and capital on the same basis as the particular item The fair value of unlisted investments uses valuation techniques, to which it relates, under the marginal method, using the Companys determined by the Directors, based upon latest dealing prices, effective tax rate for the accounting period.
stockbroker valuations, net asset values and other information, as appropriate.
Deferred taxation is provided on all timing differences, calculated at the current tax rate relevant to the benefit or liability.
Deferred tax Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of investments assets are recognised only to the extent that it will be more likely than are considered to be realised to the extent that they are readily not that there will be taxable profits from which underlying timing convertible to cash, without accepting adverse terms, at the balance differences can be deducted.
Fair value gains on unlisted investments are not considered to be readily convertible to cash and are therefore treated h Foreign Currencies as unrealised.
The treatment of listed investments is dependent upon Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted at the rate the individual circumstances of each holding.
ruling at the time of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities in foreign c Cash and Short Term Deposits currencies are translated at the closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in Cash includes cash in hand and deposits repayable on demand.
exchange rate subsequent to the date of the transaction is included Deposits are repayable on demand if they can be withdrawn at any as an exchange gain or loss in capital reserve or revenue reserve as time without notice and without penalty or if they have a maturity or appropriate.
period of notice of not more than one working day.
i Capital Reserve d Income Gains and losses on disposal of investments, changes in fair value of i Income from equity investments is brought into account on the investments held, exchange differences of a capital nature and the date on which the investments are quoted ex-dividend or, where amount by which other assets and liabilities valued at fair value differ no ex-dividend date is quoted, when the Companys right to from their book cost are dealt with in this reserve.
Purchases of the receive payment is established.
Companys own shares are also funded from this reserve.
50% of ii Interest from xed interest securities is recognised on an effective management fees and finance costs are allocated to the capital interest rate basis.
Where income returns are for a non-xed reserve in accordance with the Companys objective of combining capital and income growth.
