Communicating with Shareholders Communicating with Shareholders A Scottish Mortgage web page at www.
com Trust Magazine Promoting Scottish Mortgage Suggestions and Questions Baillie Gifford carries out extensive marketing activity to promote Any suggestions on how communications with shareholders can Scottish Mortgage to institutional, intermediary and direct be improved are welcome.
Please contact the Baillie Gifford Client investors.
The Board warmly supports the promotion of the plans Relations Team see contact details below and give them your described on pages 52 and 53 in order to bring the merits of suggestions.
They will also be very happy to answer any Scottish Mortgage to as wide an audience as possible.
questions that you may have, either about Scottish Mortgage or the plans described on pages 52 and 53.
Trust Magazine Literature in Alternative Formats Trust is the Baillie Gifford investment trust magazine which is published three times a year.
It provides an insight to our It is possible to provide copies of literature in alternative formats, investment approach by including interviews with our fund such as large print or on audio tape.
Please contact the Baillie managers, as well as containing investment trust news, Gifford Client Relations Team for more information.
investment features and articles about the trusts managed by Client Relations Team Contact Details Baillie Gifford, including Scottish Mortgage.
Trust plays an important role in helping to explain our products so that readers Telephone: 0800 027 0133 can really understand them.
For a copy of Trust, please contact Your call may be recorded for training or monitoring purposes.
the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team see contact details E-mail: trustenquiries@bailliegifford.
com Fax: 0131 275 3955 Client Relations Team An online version of Trust can be found at Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited www.
Calton Square 1 Greenside Row Edinburgh EH1 3AN Scottish Mortgage on the Web Up-to-date information about Scottish Mortgage is on Scottish Mortgage specic queries the Scottish Mortgage pages of the Managers website at Please use the following contact details: www.
You will nd full details of Website: www.
com Scottish Mortgage, including recent portfolio information and E-mail: scottishmortgage@bailliegifford.
Please note that Baillie Gifford is not permitted to give financial advice.
If you would like advice or if you have any questions about the suitability of any of these plans for you, please ask an authorised intermediary.
