Further Shareholder Information Further Shareholder Information By quoting the reference number on your share certicate you How to Invest can check your holding on the Registrars website at The Companys shares are traded on the London Stock www.
They can be bought by placing an order with a stockbroker, by asking a professional adviser to do so, or through They also offer a free, secure share management website service the Baillie Gifford savings vehicles see pages 52 and 53.
You can which allows you to: also nd specic details about investing in Scottish Mortgage at view your share portfolio and see the latest market price of www.
your shares: Sources of Further Information on the Company calculate the total market value of each shareholding: The price of shares is quoted daily in the Financial Times and can view price histories and trading graphs: also be found on the Scottish Mortgage pages of the Baillie register to receive communications from the Company, Gifford website at www.
com, Trustnet at including the Annual Report and Financial Statements, in www.
co. uk and on other financial websites.
Company electronic format: factsheets are also available on the Baillie Gifford website and are updated monthly.
These are available from Baillie Gifford on update bank mandates and change address details: request.
use online dealing services: and Scottish Mortgage Share Identiers pay dividends directly into your overseas bank account in your ISIN GB0007838849 chosen local currency.
Sedol 0783884 To take advantage of this service, please log in at www.
co. uk and enter your Shareholder Ticker SMT Reference Number and Company Code this information can be The Ordinary shares of the Company are listed on the London found on the last dividend voucher or your share certicate.
Stock Exchange and their price is shown in the Financial Times, Daily Telegraph and The Scotsman under Investment Dividend Reinvestment Plan Companies.
Computershare operates a Dividend Reinvestment Plan which can be used to buy additional shares instead of receiving your AIC dividend via cheque or into your bank account.
For further Scottish Mortgage was one of the founding members of The information log in to www.
co. uk and follow the Association of Investment Companies in 1932.
The AICs website instructions or telephone 0870 707 1694. www.
co. uk contains detailed information about investment trusts, such as factsheets and statistics on the Electronic Communications and Proxy Voting investment trust industry.
The AIC also holds a series of private If you hold stock in your own name you can choose to receive investor roadshows throughout the year at which Baillie Gifford communications from the Company, and vote, in electronic will be in attendance.
This method reduces costs, is environmentally friendly and, for many, is convenient too.
The paragraphs below explain Key Dates how you can use these services.
Ordinary shareholders normally receive two dividends in respect Electronic Communications If you would like to take of each financial year.
An interim dividend is paid at the end of advantage of this service, please visit our Registrars website November and a final dividend is paid in earlyuly.
You will need General Meeting is normally held in lateune or earlyuly.
your shareholder reference number which is on your share Capital Gains Tax certicate and tax voucher to hand.
If you then agree to the For Capital Gains Tax indexation purposes, the market value terms and conditions, in future, on the day that documents adjusted for the bonus issue of 4 for 1 of an ordinary share in the are sent to shareholders by post, you will receive an e-mail Company as at 31 March 1982 was 30.6p.
providing the website address link to the documents.
After you register, paper documents will be available on request.
Share Register Enquiries Electronic Proxy Voting You can also return proxies Computershare Investor Services PLC maintains the share electronically at www.
If you have register on behalf of the Company.
In the event of queries registered for electronic communications you will be issued a regarding shares registered in your own name, please contact the PIN number to use when returning proxies to the secure Registrars on 0870 707 1300.
You do not need to register for electronic This helpline also offers an automated self-service functionality communications to use electronic proxy voting, paper proxy available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week which allows you to: forms will contain a PIN number to allow you to return proxies electronically.
hear the latest share price: If you have any questions about this service please contact confirm your current share holding balance: Computershare on 0870 707 1300. confirm your payment history: and order Change of Address, Dividend Bank Mandate and Stock Transfer forms.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 51
