ST ANDREW SQUARE A7 NORTH BRIDGE CA L L T L I H O E N C C A L N T A O R O A L D Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice of Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the ofces of Baillie Gifford & Co.
Please arrive at the entrance at The Cube, 45 Leith Street, Edinburgh, EH1 3AT as shown on the map OMNI rather than the usual main entrance on Greenside Row on Tuesday, CENTRE JOHN LEWIS 18 -une 2013 at 4.30pm.
If you have any queries as to how to vote or how to attend the ST. JAMES CENTRE BUS meeting, please call us on 0800 027 0133.
STATION Baillie Gifford may record your call.
THISTLE THE CUBE HOTEL Please note: Trafc disruptions and road closures are in place on York Place due to the Edinburgh Tramwork Project.
BALMORAL HOTEL By Rail: Edinburgh Waverley t approximately a 5 minute walk away By Bus: Lothian Buses local services include: EDINBURGH 1, 5, 7, 8, 10, 12, 14, 15, 15A, 16, 22, 25, 34 WAVERLEY STATION Access to Waverley Train Station on foot Notice is hereby given that the one-hundred and fourth Annual To consider and, if thought t, to pass the following resolutions as General Meeting of Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC will Special Resolutions: be held within the ofces of Baillie Gifford & Co, The Cube, 45 11.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, but without Leith Street, Edinburgh, EH1 3AT on Tuesday, 18 -une 2013 at prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the 4.30pm for the following purposes: date hereof, the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, in accordance with Section 701 of Ordinary Business the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to make market To consider and, if thought t, to pass the following resolutions as purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act of Ordinary Resolutions: fully paid ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the capital of 1.
To receive and adopt the Financial Statements of the the Company ordinary shares either for retention as Company for the year to 31 March 2013 with the Reports of treasury shares for future reissue, resale, transfer or for the Directors and of the Independent Auditor thereon.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year to a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares 31 March 2013. hereby authorised to be purchased is 37,646,620 being approximately 14.99% of the issued ordinary share capital 3.
of the Company on the date on which this resolution is 4.
To re-elect MrPHS Scott as a Director.
To re-elect Mr MM Gray as a Director.
b the minimum price excluding expenses which may be 6.
To re-elect ProfessorA Kay as a Director.
paid for each ordinary share is 25 pence: 7.
To re-elect Ms FC McBain as a Director.
c the maximum price excluding expenses which may be paid for each ordinary share shall not be more than the 8.
To re-elect Mr WG McQueen as a Director.
To reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as Independent Auditor of the i 5 per cent above the average closing price on the Company to hold ofce until the conclusion of the next Annual London Stock Exchange of an ordinary share over the General Meeting at which the financial statements are laid five business days immediately preceding the date of before the Company.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade the Independent Auditor of the Company.
and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange: and d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed by the Company in general meeting, the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held in respect of the financial year ending 31 March 2014, save that the Company may, prior to the expiry of such authority, enter into a contract or contracts to purchase ordinary shares under such authority which will or might be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract or contracts.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 55 P QUEEN STREET O O GEORGE STREET L R YORK PLACE E T A A8 PRINCES STREET W G L E I T LEITH WALK H S T R ENSIDE E R E E T ST ANDREW SQUARE Notice of Annual General Meeting 12.
That, the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby Notes generally empowered pursuant to section 573 of the 1 As a member you are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to Companies Act 2006 the Act to sell relevant shares within exercise all or any of your rights to attend, speak and vote at the meaning of section 560 of the Act held by the Company the AGM.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but immediately before the sale as treasury shares as dened in must attend the AGM to represent you.
You may appoint section 724 of the Act treasury shares for cash as if section more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to 561 of the Act did not apply to any such sale, provided that exercise rights attached to different shares.
You can only this power shall be limited to: appoint a proxy using the procedure set out in these notes and the notes to the proxy form.
You may not use any a the sale of treasury shares whether by way of a rights electronic address provided either in this notice or any related issue, open offer or otherwise in favour of the holders of documents including the circular and proxy form to ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the Company communicate with the Company for any purpose other than Shares where the equity securities respectively those expressly stated.
attributable to the interests of all such shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be practicable to the 2.
To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a respective number of Shares held or deemed or notionally proxy, together with any power of attorney or other authority held by them but subject to such exclusions or other under which it is signed or a certied copy thereof, must be arrangements as the Directors deem necessary or received by post or during normal business hours only by expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or to deal hand at the Registrars of the Company at Computershare with problems under the laws, or requirements of, any Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory or Bristol, BS99 6ZY or www.
com no later otherwise howsoever: and than two days excluding non-working days before the time of the meeting or any adjourned meeting.
b the sale of treasury shares other than pursuant to paragraph a of this resolution of up to a maximum 3.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies aggregate nominal value of 6,278,622 being 10% of the through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may Companys issued Share Capital as at 9 May 2013: do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual and or by logging on to the website and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General www.
CREST personal members or Meeting of the Company to be held in 2014, save that the other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST Company may, before such expiry, make any offer or enter members who have appointed a voting service provider s, into an agreement which would or might require treasury should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service shares to be sold after the expiry of such power, and the provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on Directors of the Company may sell treasury shares in their behalf.
pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated By order of the Board in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds Baillie Gifford & Co specications, and must contain the information required for Managers and Secretaries such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The 16 May 2013 message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys registrar ID 3RA50 no later than two days excluding nonworking days before the time of the meeting or any adjournment.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the Companys registrar is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
56 Annual Report 2013 Notice of Annual General Meeting 5.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST 11.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the sponsors, or voting service providers should note that appointment of proxies in Notes 1 and 2 above does not Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in those special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Notes can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in 12.
The members of the Company may require the Company to relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the publish, on its website, without payment a statement which responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if is also passed to the auditor setting out any matter relating to the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or the audit of the Companys accounts, including the auditors sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service report and the conduct of the audit.
The Company will be provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting required to do so once it has received such requests from service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary either members representing at least 5% of the total voting to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the rights of the Company or at least 100 members who have a CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, relevant right to vote and hold shares in the Company on CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST which there has been paid up an average sum per member of sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, at least 100.
Such requests must be made in writing and to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical must state your full name and address and be sent to the limitations of the CREST system and timings.
Company at Calton Square, 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh, 6.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction EH1 3AN.
in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the 13.
Information regarding the Annual General Meeting, including Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001. information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 7.
The return of a completed proxy form or other instrument of 2006, is available from the Companys pages of the proxy will not prevent you attending the AGM and voting in Managers website at www.
Members have the right to ask questions at the meeting in 8.
Shareholders participating in the Baillie Gifford Investment accordance with Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006.
Trust Share Plan, Childrens Savings Plan or the Baillie Gifford 15.
As at 9 May 2013 being the latest practicable date prior to the Investment Trust ISA who wish to vote and or attend the publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital meeting must complete and return the enclosed reply-paid consisted of 251,144,897 ordinary shares excluding treasury Form of Direction.
shares, carrying one vote each.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerticated Securities rights in the Company as at 9 May 2013 were 251,144,897 Regulations 2001 and Section 311 of the Companies Act votes.
2006 the Company species that to be entitled to attend and 16.
Any person holding 3% or more of the total voting rights of the vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman of the determination by the Company of the votes they may the meeting as his proxy will need to ensure that both he and cast, shareholders must be registered in the Register of his proxy complies with their respective disclosure obligations Members of the Company no later than the close of business under the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
two days excluding non-working days before the meeting or 17.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 57 Directors Managers, Secretaries Registrar and Registered Ofce Chairman: Computershare Investor Services PLC JPHS Scott FCII FCSI Baillie Gifford & Co The Pavilions Calton Square Bridgwater Road Dr MM Gray OBE DL 1 Greenside Row Bristol BS99 6ZZ Professor JA Kay FBA FRSE Edinburgh Tel: 0870 707 1300 FC McBain ACA EH1 3AN WG McQueen CA FCIBS Tel: 0131 275 2000 www.
com Banker Company Broker Independent Auditor The Bank of Cenkos Securities plc KPMG Audit Plc New York Mellon SA NV 6.7.
8 Tokenhouse Yard Saltire Court 46 Rue Montoyerstraat London 20 Castle Terrace B-1000 Brussels EC2R 7AS Edinburgh Belgium EH1 2EG www.
