Statement of Directors Responsibilities Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they have The Directors have delegated responsibility to the Managers for elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with the maintenance and integrity of the Companys pages on the applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Managers website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under company law the Directors the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may must not approve the financial statements unless they are differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of Each of the current Directors, whose names and functions are the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that listed within the Directors and Managers section, confirms that, to period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are the best of their knowledge: required to: the financial statements, which have been prepared in select suitable accounting policies and then apply them accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting consistently: Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, give make judgements and accounting estimates that are a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position reasonable and prudent: and net return of the Company: and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and and performance of the business and the position of the explained in the financial statements respectively: and Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
By order of the Board The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accountingohn Scott records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys 10 May 2013 transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Notes The following notes relate to financial statements published on a website and are not included in the printed version of the Annual Report and Financial Statements: The maintenance and integrity of the Baillie Gifford & Co website is the responsibility of Baillie Gifford & Co: the work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of these matters and accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
