146 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 29.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT AND ALLOCATION It is the Groups policy to maintain a strong capital base in order to: protect policyholders and creditors interests, support the development of its business and create shareholder value, and meet regulatory requirements at all times.
Within the Group each subsidiary manages its own capital in the context of the Group capital plan.
Capital generated in excess of planned requirements is returned to the Groups parent, St. Jamess Place plc, normally by way of dividends.
The Group capital plan is monitored by the Finance Executive Committee on behalf of the St. Jamess Place plc Board.
The Groups policy is for each Company to hold the higher of: the Companys internal assessment of the capital required: and the capital requirement of the relevant supervisory body plus a specified margin over this to absorb changes.
Generally, because of the nature of the business and the current regulatory rules, the higher requirement is that of the supervisory body plus the specified margin.
The following entities are under supervisory regulation and have to maintain a minimum level of regulatory capital: entity Regulatory body and Jurisdiction St. Jamess Place UK plc PRA & FCA: Long-term insurance business St. Jamess Place International plc Central Bank of Ireland: Life insurance business St. Jamess Place Unit Trust Group Limited FCA: UCITS Management Company St. Jamess Place Wealth Management plc FCA: Personal Investment Firm St. Jamess Place Reassurance 2009 Limited FCA: Reassurance Company St. Jamess Place Trust Company Jersey Limited Jersey Financial Services Commission St. Jamess Place Wealth Management PCIS Limited FCA: Securities and Futures BFS Financial Services Limited FCA: Personal Investment Firm E W Smith & Co Independent Financial Advisers Limited FCA: Personal Investment Firm Lansdown Place Financial Management Ltd FCA: Personal Investment Firm The PRA regulatory requirement for St. Jamess Place UK plc, which makes up the majority of the Group capital requirement, includes the prescribed minimum solvency margin requirement the Capital Resources Requirement CRR and an assessment of the risks faced under the business, known as the Individual Capital Assessment.
The capital requirement is assessed and monitored by the Finance Executive Committee, a committee of the St. Jamess Place UK plc Board.
The regulatory requirements for the remaining companies within the Group are assessed and monitored by the relevant Board.
There has been no material change in the Groups management of capital during the period and all regulated entities exceed the minimum solvency requirements at the reporting date.
Capital composition The principal forms of capital are included in the following balances on the consolidated statement of financial position: 31 december 31 December 2013 2012 million Million Share capital 77.3 76.0 Share premium 142.2 127.7 Treasury shares reserve 10.2 8.9 Miscellaneous reserves 2.3 2.3 Retained earnings 694.5 565.4 906.1 762.5 The above assets do not all qualify as regulatory capital.
Analysis of the assets which do qualify as regulatory capital is given in Section 3 of the Financial Review on page 30.
The Group and its individually regulated operations have complied with all externally and internally imposed capital requirements throughout the period.
