106 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES St. Jamess Place plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
statement of Compliance The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 that are applicable when reporting under IFRS.
The following new and amended standards, which the Group have early adopted as of 1 January 2013, have had a material impact on the Groups reported results: IAS 28 Revised Investments in associates and joint ventures IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, 11 and 12 on Transition Guidance The following new, revised and amended standards, which the Group have adopted as of 1 January 2013, have not had any material impact on the Groups reported results: IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 12 Amendment Income Taxes IFRS 7 Amendment Financial Instruments: Disclosure IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2009 2011 Cycle As at 31 December 2013, the following standards and interpretation, which are relevant to the Group but have not been applied in the financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: IAS 32 Amendment Financial Instruments: Presentation IAS 36 Amendment Impairment of Assets IAS 39 Amendment Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Classification and Measurement IFRS 9 Amendment Financial Instruments IFRS 9 Amendment Hedge Accounting IFRIC Interpretation 21 Levies Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010 2012 Cycle Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011 2013 Cycle The adoption of the above standards and interpretation is not expected to have any material impact on the Groups results reported within the financial statements other than requiring additional disclosure or alternative presentation.
The Group financial statements also comply with the revised Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of British Insurers in December 2005 as amended in December 2006, to the extent that it is consistent with IFRS standards.
basis of preparation As discussed in the Directors Report, the going concern basis has been adopted in preparing these accounts.
The financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling, rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand pounds.
They are prepared on a historical cost basis except for assets classified as investment property, investments and derivative financial instruments, and liabilities classified as investment contracts, insurance contracts and third party holdings in unit trusts, which are held at fair value.
03183415 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 107 The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods, if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Judgements made by management in the application of IFRSs that have significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in Note2.
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 as applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and the accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
summary of significant accounting policies a Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial information incorporates the assets, liabilities and the results of the Company and of its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are those entities in which the Group directly or indirectly has the power to govern the financial and operating policies in order to gain benefits from its activities including unit trusts in which the Group holds more than 30% of the units.
Associates are all entities over which the group has significant influence but not control and are accounted for at fair value through the profit and loss.
The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for business combinations and expenses all acquisition costs as they incur.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with policies adopted by the Group.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The treatment of transactions with non-controlling interests depends on whether, as a result of the transaction, the Group alters control of the subsidiary.
Changes in the parents ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions: any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the parent entity.
Where the Group loses control of the subsidiary, at the date when control is lost the amount of any non-controlling interest in that former subsidiary is derecognised and any investment retained in the former subsidiary is remeasured to its fair value: the gain or loss that is recognised in profit or loss on the partial disposal of the subsidiary includes the gain or loss on the remeasurement of the retained interest.
Intragroup balances, and any income and expenses or unrealised gains and losses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
b Product classification The Groups products are classified for accounting purposes as either insurance contracts or investment contracts.
i Insurance contracts Insurance contracts are contracts that transfer significant insurance risk.
The Groups product range includes a variety of term assurance and whole of life protection contracts involving significant insurance risk transfer.
ii Investment contracts Contracts that do not transfer significant insurance risk are treated as investment contracts.
The majority of the business written by the Group is unit linked investment business and is classified as investment contracts.
108 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued c Long-term business i Insurance premium revenue For unit linked insurance contracts, premiums are recognised as revenue when the liabilities arising from them are recognised.
All other premiums are accounted for when due for payment.
Investment contract premiums are not included in the statement of comprehensive income but are reported as deposits to investment contract liabilities in the balance sheet.
ii Revenue from investment contracts Fees charged for services related to the management of investment contracts are recognised as revenue as the services are provided.
Initial fees, including dealing margins from unit trusts, which exceed the level of recurring fees and relate to the future provision of services, are deferred.
These are amortised over the anticipated period in which services will be provided.
iii Policy claims and benefits For insurance contracts, death claims are accounted for on notification of death.
Critical illness claims are accounted for when admitted.
All other claims and surrenders are accounted for when payment is due.
For investment contracts, benefits paid are not included in the statement of comprehensive income but are instead deducted from investment contract liabilities.
The movement in investment contract benefits within the statement of comprehensive income principally represents the investment return credited to policyholders.
Following the implementation of the Retail Distribution Review RDR on 31 December 2012, explicit advice charges are payable to St. Jamess Place distribution company by most clients who wish to receive advice with their investment in a St. Jamess Place retail investment product.
St. Jamess Place facilitates the payment of these charges for the client, by arranging withdrawals from the clients policy, which are then recognised as income to St. Jamess Place distribution company.
A proportion of the charge is then paid to the St. Jamess Place adviser Partner who provides the advice see g i Expenses.
iv Acquisition costs For insurance contracts, acquisition costs comprise direct costs such as initial commission and the indirect costs of obtaining and processing new business.
Acquisition costs which are incurred during a financial year, net of any impairment losses, are deferred and then amortised over the period during which the costs are expected to be recoverable and in accordance with the incidence of future related margins.
For investment contracts, only directly attributable acquisition costs, which vary with and are related to securing new contracts and renewing existing contracts, are deferred, and only to the extent that they are recoverable out of future revenue.
These deferred acquisition costs, which represent the contractual right to benefit from providing investment management services, net of any impairment losses, are amortised on a straight-line basis over the expected lifetime of the Groups investment contracts.
All other costs are recognised as expenses when incurred.
Note, following the implementation of the Retail Distribution Review RDR on 31December 2012, the initial advice costs are no longer an acquisition cost linked to the contractual right to benefit from providing investment management services and so they are no longer deferred.
v Insurance contract liabilities Insurance contract liability provisions are determined following an annual actuarial investigation of the long-term fund in accordance with regulatory requirements.
The provisions are calculated on the basis of current information and using the gross premium valuation method.
The Groups accounting policies for insurance contracts meet the minimum specified requirements for liability adequacy testing under IFRS 4, as they consider current estimates of all contractual cash flows, and of related cash flow such as claims handling costs.
Insurance contract liabilities can never be definitive as to their timing nor the amount of claims and are therefore subject to subsequent reassessment on a regular basis.
03183415 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 109 vi Investment contract liabilities All of the Groups investment contracts are unit linked.
Unit linked liabilities are measured at fair value by reference to the value of the underlying net asset value of the Groups unitised investment funds, determined on a bid value, at the reporting date.
An allowance for deductions due to or from the Company in respect of policyholder tax on capital gains and losses in the life assurance funds is also reflected in the measurement of unit linked liabilities.
Investment contract liabilities are recognised when units are first allocated to the policyholder: they are derecognised when units allocated to the policyholder have been cancelled.
The decision by the Group to designate its unit linked liabilities as fair value through the profit and loss statement reflects the fact that the underlying investment portfolio is managed, and its performance evaluated, on a fair value basis.
vii Insurance and investment contract receivables and payables Insurance and investment contract receivables and payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost, using the effective interest method, less impairment losses.
d Reinsurance Reinsurance premiums are accounted for when due for payment and reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same period as the related claim.
The accounting policy for reassurance assets has been amended to reflect only amounts recoverable from reinsurers in respect of insurance contract liabilities.
Amounts recoverable from reinsurers in respect of claims and amounts payable in respect of future reinsurance premiums are reported as part of insurance and investment contract receivables and payables, respectively.
There is no impact on the Groups reported results from this change.
e Fee and commission income Fee and commission income comprises: i fees charged for services related to the management of investment contracts: ii advice charges paid by clients who wish to receive advice with their investment in a St. Jamess Place or third party retail investment product: and iii commission, due in respect of products sold on behalf of third parties.
Investment contract management fees are generally recognised as revenue as the services are provided see also accounting policy notec ii.
Advice charges and commission are recognised in full on acceptance and inception of the associated policy by the relevant product provider.
Where the product provider retains the right to clawback of commission on an indemnity basis, turnover on sale of these products is recognised net of a provision for the estimated clawback.
f Investment return Investment return comprises investment income and investment gains and losses.
Investment income includes dividends, interest and rental income from investment properties under operating leases.
Dividends are accrued on an ex-dividend basis, and rental income is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Interest, which is generated on assets classified as fair value through profit or loss, is accounted for on an accruals basis.
g Expenses i Partner remuneration Whilst the implementation of the Retail Distribution Review RDR on 31 December 2012 has resulted in changes to Fee and Commission income received see e Fee and Commission, there is no change to treatment of Partner Remuneration.
Partner remuneration comprises initial commission and initial advice fees IAF paid for initial advice, at policy outset and within an initial period, renewal commission and renewal advice fees payable on regular contributions and fund fee commission or ongoing advice fee OAF based on funds under management and payable on the policy anniversary.
Initial and renewal commission and advice fees are recognised in line with the associated premium income, but initial commission on insurance and investment contracts may be deferred as set out in accounting policy c iv.
Fund fee commission and ongoing advice fee are recognised on an accrualsbasis.
110 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Commission and advice fees in respect of some insurance and investment business may be paid in advance on renewal premiums and accelerated by up to five years.
The unearned element of this accelerated remuneration is recognised as an asset within other receivables.
Should the contributions reduce or stop within the initial period, any unearned amount is clawed back.
ii Operating lease payments Leases where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of ownership is retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as an integral part of the total lease expense and are spread over the life of the lease.
h Income taxes Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax payable by the Group in respect of policyholders and shareholders.
Income tax is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
i Current tax Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
ii Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided using the liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
iii Policyholder and shareholder tax The total income tax charge is a separate adjustment within the statement of comprehensive income based on the movement in current and deferred income taxes in respect of income, gains and expenses.
The total charge reflects tax incurred on behalf of policyholders as well as shareholders, and so it is useful to be able to identify these separately.
Shareholder tax is estimated by making an assessment of the effective rate of tax that is applicable to the shareholders, with the balance being treated as tax in respect of policyholders.
i Dividends Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised in the period in which the dividends are paid, and, for the final dividend, when approved by the Companys shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
j Intangible assets i Deferred acquisition costs See accounting policy c iv.
ii Acquired value of in-force business The acquired value of in-force business in respect of insurance business represents the present value of profits that are expected to emerge from insurance business acquired on business combinations.
It is calculated at the time of acquisition using best estimate actuarial assumptions for interest, mortality, persistency and expenses, net of any impairment losses, and it is amortised as profits emerge over the anticipated lives of the related contracts in the portfolio.
An intangible asset is also recognised in respect of acquired investment management contracts representing the fair value of contractual rights acquired under those contracts.
The acquired value of in-force business is expressed as a gross figure in the balance sheet with the associated tax included within deferred tax liabilities.
It is assessed for impairment at each reporting date and any movement is charged to the statement of comprehensive income.
03183415 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 111 iii Computer software Computer software is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any recognised impairment loss.
The carrying value is reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Computer software is recognised as an intangible asset during development with amortisation commencing when the software is operational.
Amortisation is charged to the statement of comprehensive income to administration expenses on a straight-line basis over four years, being the estimated useful life of the intangible asset.
iv Customer list During the year, customer list renamed renewal income was reclassified as a financial asset and disclosed within other receivables to better reflect of the nature of the asset.
See accounting policy o Other receivables policy for information relating to the treatment of other receivables.
Customer list was recognised as an intangible asset and represented the value of future commission income streams following the acquisition of financial services businesses and was amortised over four years as the income stream was realised.
Customer list was stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any recognised impairment loss.
The carrying value was reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicated that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
k Property & equipment Items of property & equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Land is shown at fair value, based on valuations by external independent valuers.
The carrying value is reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable and any assets that may have suffered impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
Depreciation is charged to the statement of comprehensive income to administration expenses on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the property & equipment as follows: Computers: 3 years Fixtures and fittings: 5 years Office equipment: 5 years Land is not depreciated.
l Investment property Investment properties, which are all held within the unit linked funds, are properties which are held to earn rental income and or for capital appreciation.
They are stated at fair value.
An external, independent valuer, having an appropriate recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the location and category of property being valued, values the portfolio every month.
The fair values are based on open market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in fair value is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income within investment income.
Rental return from investment property is accounted for as described in accounting policy f. m Investments The Groups investments are initially and subsequently recognised at fair value through profit or loss, with all gains and losses recognised within investment income in the statement of comprehensive income.
The fair values of quoted financial investments, which represent the vast majority of the Groups investments, are based on the value within the bid-ask spread that is most representative of fair value.
If the market for a financial investment is not active, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques such as recent arms length transactions, reference to similar listed investments, discounted cash flow models or option pricing models.
The decision by the Group to designate its investments at fair value through the profit and loss reflects the fact that the investment portfolio is managed, and its performance evaluated, on a fair value basis.
112 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued The Group recognises purchases and sales of investments on trade date.
The costs associated with investment transactions are included within administration expenses in the statement of comprehensive income.
n Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments within some unit linked funds, with each contract initially and subsequently recognised at fair value, based on observable market prices.
All changes in value are recognised within investment income in the statement of comprehensive income.
o Other receivables Other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently held at amortised cost less impairment losses, except for renewal income which is held at fair value.
The value of any impairment recognised is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
See accounting policy note p Impairment policy for information relating to the treatment of impaired amounts.
p Impairment policy Formal reviews to assess the recoverability of deferred acquisition costs on insurance and investment contracts, the acquired value of in-force business, renewal income and loans are carried out at each reporting date.
The recoverability of such assets is measured and the asset is deemed impaired if the projected future margins are less than the carrying value of the asset.
The carrying amounts of the Groups other assets that are not carried at fair value are also reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If there is any indication of irrecoverability or impairment, the assets recoverable amount is estimated based on the present value of its estimated future cash flows.
Impairment losses are reversed through the statement of comprehensive income if there is a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
Such losses are reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation where applicable, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
q Cash & cash equivalents Cash & cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments, and bank overdrafts to the extent that they are an integral part of the Groups cash management.
Cash & cash equivalents held within unit linked and unit trust funds are classified at fair value through the profit and loss.
All other cash & cash equivalents are classified as loans and receivables.
r Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events such that it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
Provisions are measured as the discounted expected future cash flows taking account of the risks and uncertainties associated with the specific liability where appropriate.
s Borrowings Borrowings are measured initially at fair value, net of directly attributable transaction costs, and subsequently stated at amortised cost.
The difference between the proceeds and the redemption value is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income over the borrowing period on an effective interest rate basis.
Borrowings are recognised on drawdown and derecognised on repayment.
t Other payables Other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
u Net asset value attributable to unit holders The Group consolidates unit trusts in which it holds more than 30% of the units and exercises control.
The third party interests in these unit trusts are measured at fair value, since the underlying investment portfolios are managed on a fair value basis, and they are presented in the balance sheet as net asset value attributable to unit holders.
Income attributable to the third party interests is accounted for within investment income, offset by a corresponding change in investment contract benefits.
03183415 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 113 v Employee benefits i Pension obligations The Group operates a defined contribution personal pension plan for its employees.
Contributions to this plan are recognised as an expense in the statement of comprehensive income as incurred.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
ii Share-based payments The Group operates a number of share-based payment plans.
The fair value of equity instruments granted is recognised as an expense spread over the vesting period of the instrument which accords with the period for which related services are provided, with a corresponding increase in equity in the case of equity settled plans.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the awards at the grant date, measured using standard option pricing models.
At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments that are expected to vest and it recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the statement of comprehensive income, such that the amount recognised for employee services are based on the number of shares that actually vest.
The charge to the statement of comprehensive income is not revised for any changes in market vesting conditions.
w Treasury shares Where any Group company purchases the Companys share capital, the consideration paid is deducted from equity attributable to shareholders, as disclosed in the Treasury Shares reserve.
Where such shares are subsequently sold, reissued or otherwise disposed of, any consideration received is included in equity attributable to shareholders, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects.
x Foreign currency translation The Groups presentation and the companys functional currency is pounds Sterling.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into sterling using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date and the gain or losses on translation are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities which are held at historical cost are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the date of transaction: those held at fair value are translated using exchange rates ruling at the date on which the fair value was determined.
y Segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
The chief operating decision maker, which is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Board of the Company.
z Current and non-current disclosure Assets which are expected to be recovered or settled no more than twelve months after the reporting date are disclosed as current within the notes to the accounts.
Those expected to be recovered or settled more than twelve months after the reporting date are disclosed as non-current.
Liabilities which are expected and due to be settled no more than twelve months after the reporting date are disclosed as current within the notes to the accounts.
Those liabilities which are expected and due to be settled more than twelve months after the reporting date are disclosed as non-current.
114 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 1 A.
ADOPTION OF IFRS 10 IMPACT OF CONSOLIDATION OF UNIT TRUSTS This new standard establishes the principles to determine whether one entity controls another: where such control exists the controlling entity is required to consolidate the other entity in its financial statements.
The Group has early adopted IFRS 10 with effect from 1 January 2013.
Unit trusts are now therefore being accounted for as a subsidiary when the Group holds more than 30% of the units.
Comparative financial information has been restated following the early adoption of IFRS 10.
The tables below show the effect on the statement of financial position, the statement of comprehensive income and the statement of cashflows.
There was no impact on the earnings per share calculation.
impact on statement of financial position 31 December 1 January Increase decrease 2012 2012 Million Million assets Investments Equities 2,481.2 1,562.9 Fixed income securities 37.1 53.2 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 1,199.5 690.5 Derivative Financial Instruments 1.9 Other receivables 17.7 27.0 Cash and cash equivalents 83.1 38.8 total assets 1,419.6 993.3 liabilities Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 0.7 Other payables 1.6 16.8 Net asset value attributable to unit holders 1,418.7 976.5 total liabilities 1,419.6 993.3 impact on statement of Comprehensive income Year Ended 31 December Increase decrease 2012 Million Other investment return 169.0 net income 169.0 net change in investment contract benefits 169.0 profit before tax Tax attributable to policyholders returns profit for the period Registered No.
