106 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES St. Jamess Place plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
statement of Compliance The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 that are applicable when reporting under IFRS.
The following new and amended standards, which the Group have early adopted as of 1 January 2013, have had a material impact on the Groups reported results: IAS 28 Revised Investments in associates and joint ventures IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, 11 and 12 on Transition Guidance The following new, revised and amended standards, which the Group have adopted as of 1 January 2013, have not had any material impact on the Groups reported results: IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 12 Amendment Income Taxes IFRS 7 Amendment Financial Instruments: Disclosure IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2009 2011 Cycle As at 31 December 2013, the following standards and interpretation, which are relevant to the Group but have not been applied in the financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: IAS 32 Amendment Financial Instruments: Presentation IAS 36 Amendment Impairment of Assets IAS 39 Amendment Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Classification and Measurement IFRS 9 Amendment Financial Instruments IFRS 9 Amendment Hedge Accounting IFRIC Interpretation 21 Levies Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010 2012 Cycle Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011 2013 Cycle The adoption of the above standards and interpretation is not expected to have any material impact on the Groups results reported within the financial statements other than requiring additional disclosure or alternative presentation.
The Group financial statements also comply with the revised Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of British Insurers in December 2005 as amended in December 2006, to the extent that it is consistent with IFRS standards.
basis of preparation As discussed in the Directors Report, the going concern basis has been adopted in preparing these accounts.
The financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling, rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand pounds.
They are prepared on a historical cost basis except for assets classified as investment property, investments and derivative financial instruments, and liabilities classified as investment contracts, insurance contracts and third party holdings in unit trusts, which are held at fair value.
