170 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the European Embedded Value Basis continued II.
METHODOLOGY continued f Cost of required capital In light of the results of internal analysis, the Directors consider that the minimum regulatory capital provides adequate capital cover for the risks inherent in the covered business.
The required capital for the EEV calculations has therefore been set to the optimised minimum regulatory capital.
The EEV includes a reduction for the cost of holding the required capital.
No allowance has been made for any potential adjustment that the investors may apply because they do not have direct control over their capital.
Any such adjustment would be subjective, as different investors will have different views of what, if any, adjustment should be made.
g new business The new business contribution arising from reported new business premiums has been calculated using the same assumptions as used inthe EEV at the end of the financial year.
The value of contractual incremental premiums to existing business is treated as new business in the year of the increment, rather than at the outset of the policy.
This approach better reflects the way the Group manages its business.
The value of new business has been established at the end of the reporting period and has been calculated using actual acquisition costs.
h operating profit Operating profit is determined as the increase in the embedded value over the year excluding market-related impacts such as the effects of economic assumption changes and investment variances and grossed up for shareholder tax.
i tax The EEV includes the present value of tax relief on life assurance expenses calculated on a market-consistent basis.
This calculation takes into account all expense and income amounts projected for the in-force business including any carried forward unutilised relief on expenses.
In determining the market-consistent value an appropriate allowance is made to reflect the fact that the value of tax relief on expenses does not move linearly with market movements.
When calculating the value of new business, priority is given to relieving the expenses relating to that business.
ASSUMPTIONS a economic assumptions The principal economic assumptions used within the cash flows at 31 December are set out below: year ended Year Ended 31 december 31 December 2013 2012 Risk free rate 3.1% 1.8% Inflation rate 3.2% 2.5% Risk discount rate net of tax 6.2% 4.9% Future investment returns: Gilts 3.1% 1.8% Equities 6.1% 4.8% Unit linked funds Capital growth 2.5% 1.2% Dividend income 2.9% 2.9% Total 5.4% 4.1% Expense inflation 4.0% 3.4% The risk free rate is set by reference to the yield on 10 year gilts.
Other investment returns are set by reference to the risk free rate.
The inflation rate is derived from the implicit inflation in the valuation of 10 year index-linked gilts.
This rate is increased to reflect higher increases in earnings related expenses.
