Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 115 impact on statement of Cash flows Year Ended 31 December 2012 Million Changes in operating assets and liabilities Increase in investments 391.3 Increase in other receivables 9.3 Decrease in financial liabilities excluding borrowings 0.7 Increase in other payables 15.2 Increase in net assets attributable to unit holders 442.2 Cash generated from operations 44.3 net cash generated from operating activities 44.3 net increase in cash and cash equivalents 43.3 Cash & cash equivalents at 1 January 38.8 Cash & cash equivalents at 31 december 83.1 2.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES Judgements The primary area in which the Group has applied judgement in applying accounting policies lies in the classification of contracts between insurance and investment business.
Contracts with a significant degree of insurance risk are treated as insurance.
All other contracts are treated as investment contracts.
The Group has also elected to treat all assets backing linked and non unit linked contracts as fair value through profit or loss although some of the assets in question may ultimately be held to maturity.
estimates The principal areas in which the Group applies accounting estimates are: Determining the value of insurance contract liabilities.
Deciding the amount of management expenses that are treated as acquisition expenses.
Amortisation and recoverability of deferred acquisition costs and deferred income.
Determining the fair value, amortisation and recoverability of acquired in-force business.
Determining the fair value liability to policyholders for capital losses in unit funds.
Determining the value of deferred tax assets.
Estimates are also applied in determining the amount of deferred tax asset recognised on unrelieved expenses and the value of other provisions.
Measurement of insurance contract liabilities The assumptions used in the calculation of insurance contract liabilities that have a significant effect on the statement of comprehensive income of the Group are: The lapse assumption, which is set prudently based on an investigation of experience during the year.
The level of expenses, which is based on actual expenses in 2013 and expected long term rates.
The mortality and morbidity rates, which are based on the results of an investigation of experience during the year.
The assumed rate of investment return, which is based on current gilt yields.
Greater detail on the assumptions applied is shown in Note 20.
Acquisition expenses Certain management expenses vary with the level of new business and have been treated as acquisition costs.
Each line of costs has been reviewed and its variability to new business volumes estimated on the basis of the level of costs that would be incurred if new business ceased.
