160 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the Parent Company Accounts 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES basis of preparation St. Jamess Place plc the Company is a limited liability company incorporated in England and Wales and whose shares are publicly traded.
The Company offers a range of insurance, investment and other wealth management services through its subsidiaries, which are incorporated in the UK and Ireland.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and under the historical cost convention.
The Company has elected to continue to prepare the parent financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
In publishing the Parent Company financial statements, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption in Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual profit and loss account and related notes that form part of these financial statements.
The Company is not required to present a statement of total recognised gains and losses.
As discussed in the Directors Report the going concern basis has been adopted in preparing these accounts.
All accounting policies have been reviewed for appropriateness in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard FRS 18 Accounting Policies and have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Parent Company financial statements.
The Company has not presented a cash flow statement as a consolidated cash flow statement is presented in the consolidated Group financial statements.
significant accounting policies a Investment return Investment return comprises dividends from subsidiaries, which are accounted for when received.
b Taxation Taxation is based on profits and income for the period as determined in accordance with the relevant tax legislation, together with adjustments to provisions for prior periods.
c Investment in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost after impairment losses, plus the cost of share awards granted by the Company of its ownshares.
d Debtors Debtors are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently held at amortised cost less impairment losses.
e Amounts owed to Group undertakings Amounts owed to Group undertakings initially are recognised at fair value and subsequently held at amortised cost.
f Impairment losses The carrying amounts of the assets are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
Ifthere is any indication of irrecoverability or impairment, the assets recoverable amount is estimated based on the present value of its estimated future cash flows.
