Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 135 27.
OTHER PAYABLES 31 december 31 December 2013 2012 million Million Accruals 74.2 58.4 Unit Trust dealing payable 46.8 46.9 Unit linked funds and UTMI including outstanding security purchases 241.6 299.1 Miscellaneous 76.8 31.4 total other payables 439.4 435.8 Restated to reflect the adoption of IFRS 10.
All other payable balances are considered current.
The fair value of financial liabilities in other payables is not materially different from amortised cost.
FINANCIAL RISK Risk management objectives and risk policies The Group seeks to manage risk through the operation of unit linked business whereby the policyholder bears the financial risk.
In addition, shareholder assets are invested in highly rated investments.
Under IFRS 7, the Group is required to analyse their exposure to the following risks: Credit risk Liquidity risk Market risk Currency risk Credit risk is the risk of loss due to a debtors non-payment of a loan or other line of credit.
Credit risk also arises from holdings of cash and cash equivalents, deposits and formal loans with banks and financial institutions.
The Group has adopted a risk averse approach to such risk and has a stated policy of not actively pursuing or accepting credit risk except when necessary to support other objectives.
Risk Description Management Shareholders assets Loss of assets Shareholder funds are predominantly invested in AAA rated unitised money market funds and deposits with approved banks.
Maximum counterparty limits are set for each company within the Group and aggregate limits are also set at a Group level.
Investment matching of Loss of value of assets These liabilities are matched by fixed interest securities with minimum non-linked liabilities AAA credit ratings or UK Government Gilts: maximum counterparty limits for such holdings are again set for each company within the Group and at an aggregate Group level.
Reinsurance Failure of counterparty or Credit ratings of potential reinsurers must meet or exceed counterparty unable to meet minimum specified levels.
Consideration is also given to size, liabilities risk concentrations exposures and ownership in the selection of reinsurers.
The Group also seeks to diversify its reinsurance credit risk through the use of a spread of reinsurers.
Partner loans and advances Inability of Partners to repay loans Loans and advances are managed in line with the Groups secured or advances from SJP lending policy.
Loans are secured on the future renewals income stream expected from a Partners portfolio and loan advances vary in relation to the projected future income of the relevant Partner.
Outstanding balances are regularly reviewed and assessed on a conservative basis.
Support is provided to help Partners manage their business appropriately.
Appropriate provision is made where there is objective evidence of impairment.
