332 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Glossary Advances-to-deposits ratio Commercial paper CP The ratio of total loans and advances to customers relative to total An unsecured promissory note issued to finance short-term customer deposits.
A low advances-to-deposits ratio demonstrates credit needs.
It species the face amount paid to investors on the that customer deposits exceed customer loans resulting from maturity date.
emphasis placed on generating a high level of stable funding Commercial real estate CRE from customers.
Includes ofce buildings, industrial property, medical centres, hotels, Asset Backed Securities ABS malls, retail stores, shopping centres, farm land, multifamily housing Securities that represent an interest in an underlying pool of referenced buildings, warehouses, garages, and industrial properties.
The referenced pool can comprise any assets which attract are those backed by a package of commercial real estate assets.
a set of associated cash ows but are commonly pools of residential Constant currency or commercial mortgages and in the case of Collateralised Debt Constant currency change is derived by applying a simple translation of Obligations CDOs, the reference pool may be ABS.
the previous period functional currency number in each entity using the Advanced Internal Rating Based AIRB approach current average and period end US dollar exchange rates to the income The AIRB approach under the Basel II framework is used to statement and balance sheet respectively.
calculate credit risk capital based on the Groups own estimates Contractual maturity of certain parameters.
Contractual maturity refers to the final payment date of a loan or other ASEAN financial instrument, at which point all the remaining outstanding Association of South East Asian Nations ASEAN which includes principal will be repaid and interest is due to be paid.
the Groups operations in Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Core Tier 1 capital Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.
Core Tier 1 capital comprises called-up ordinary share capital and Attributable profit to ordinary shareholders eligible reserves plus non-controlling interests, less goodwill and other profit for the year after non-controlling interests and the declaration intangible assets and deductions relating to excess expected losses of dividends on preference shares classied as equity.
over eligible provisions and securitisation positions as specified by the UKs Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA.
Basel II The capital adequacy framework issued by the Basel Committee Core Tier 1 capital ratio on Banking Supervision BCBS in June 2006 in the form of the Core Tier 1 capital as a percentage of risk-weighted assets.
International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Cost to income ratio Capital Standards.
Represents the proportion of total operating expenses to total Basel III operating income.
In December 2010, the BCBS issued the Basel III rules text, which Cover ratio presents the details of strengthened global regulatory standards on Represents the extent to which non-performing loans are covered by bank capital adequacy and liquidity.
The new requirements are being impairment allowances.
phased in from 1 January 2013 with full implementation by 31 December 2019.
Covered bonds Debt securities backed by a portfolio of mortgages that are segregated Basis point bp from the issuers other assets solely for the benefit of the holders of the One hundredth of a percentage point 0.01 per cent : 100 basis points covered bonds.
Used in quoting movements in interest rates or yields on securities.
Credit Conversion Factor CCF CCF is an internally modelled parameter based on historical experience CAD2 to determine the amount that is expected to be further drawn down An amendment to Capital Adequacy Directive that gives national from the undrawn portion in a committed facility.
regulators the discretion to permit rms to use their own value at risk model for calculating capital requirements subject to certain criteria.
Credit default swaps CDSs A credit derivative is an arrangement whereby the credit risk of an asset Collateralised Debt Obligations CDOs the reference asset is transferred from the buyer to the seller of Securities issued by a third party which reference ABS and or certain protection.
A credit default swap is a contract where the protection seller other related assets purchased by the issuer.
CDOs may feature receives premium or interest-related payments in return for contracting exposure to sub-prime mortgage assets through the underlying assets.
to make payments to the protection buyer upon a dened credit event.
Collateralised Loan Obligation CLO Credit events normally include bankruptcy, payment default on a A security backed by the repayments from a pool of commercial loans.
reference asset or assets, or downgrades by a rating agency.
The payments may be made to different classes of owners in tranches.
Credit institutions Collectively assessed loan impairment provisions An institution whose business is to receive deposits or other repayable Also known as portfolio impairment provisions.
Impairment funds from the public and to grant credits for its own account.
assessment on a collective basis for homogeneous groups of loans Credit risk spread that are not considered individually significant and to cover losses The credit spread is the yield spread between securities with the same which have been incurred but have not yet been identied at the coupon rate and maturity structure but with different associated credit balance sheet date.
Typically assets within the Consumer Banking risks, with the yield spread rising as the credit rating worsens.
It is the business are assessed on a portfolio basis.
premium over the benchmark or risk-free rate required by the market to Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities CMBS take on a lower credit quality.
Securities that represent interests in a pool of commercial mortgages.
Credit valuation adjustments CVA Investors in these securities have the right to cash received from future An adjustment to fair value primarily in respect of derivative contracts mortgage payments interest and or principal.
that reects the possibility that the counterparty may default such that the Group would not receive the full market value of the transactions.
Supplementary information 333 Customer deposits Funded unfunded exposures Money deposited by all individuals and companies which are not Exposures where the notional amount of the transaction is funded credit institutions including securities sold under repo.
Represents exposures where there is a commitment are recorded as liabilities in the Groups balance sheet under to provide future funding is made but funds have been released Customer accounts.
Debt restructuring Guaranteed mortgages This is when the terms and provisions of outstanding debt agreements Mortgages for which there is a guarantor to provide the lender a certain are changed.
This is often done in order to improve cash ow and the level of financial security in the event of default of the borrower.
ability of the borrower to repay the debt.
It can involve altering the High Quality Liquid Assets HQLA repayment schedule as well as debt or interest charge reduction.
Assets that are unencumbered, liquid in markets during a time of stress Debt securities and, ideally, be central bank eligible.
These include, for example, cash Debt securities are assets on the Groups balance sheet and represent and claims on central governments and central banks.
The Basel III certicates of indebtedness of credit institutions, public bodies or other Rules require this ratio to be at least 100 per cent and it is expected to undertakings excluding those issued by central banks.
Debt securities in issue Impaired loans Debt securities in issue are transferrable certicates of indebtedness of Loans where individual identied impairment provisions have been the Group to the bearer of the certicate.
These are liabilities of the raised and also include loans which are collateralised or where Group and include certicates of deposits.
indebtedness has already been written down to the expected realisable value.
The impaired loan category may include loans which, while Delinquency impaired, are still performing.
A debt or other financial obligation is considered to be in a state of delinquency when payments are overdue.
Loans and advances are Impairment allowances considered to be delinquent when consecutive payments are missed.
Impairment allowances are a provision held on the balance sheet as a Also known as arrears.
result of the raising of a charge against profit for the incurred loss.
An impairment allowance may either be identied or unidentified and Deposits by banks individual specic or collective portfolio.
Deposits by banks comprise amounts owed to other domestic or foreign credit institutions by the Group including securities sold Individually assessed loan impairment provisions under repo.
Also known as specic impairment provisions.
Impairment is measured individually for assets that are individually significant to the Group.
Dividend per share Typically assets within the Wholesale Banking business of the Group Represents the entitlement of each shareholder in the share of the are assessed individually.
Calculated in the lowest unit of currency in which the shares are quoted.
Innovative Tier 1 capital Innovative Tier 1 capital consists of instruments which incorporate Effective tax rate ETR certain features, the effect of which is to weaken but only marginally The tax on profits on ordinary activities as a percentage of profit on the key characteristics of Tier 1 capital that is, fully subordinated, ordinary activities before taxation.
Innovative Tier 1 capital is subject to a Expected loss EL limit of 15 per cent of total Tier 1 capital.
The Group measure of anticipated loss for exposures captured under Internal Ratings Based IRB approach an internal ratings based credit risk approach for capital adequacy The IRB approach is used to calculate risk-weighted assets in calculations.
It is measured as the Group-modelled view of anticipated accordance with the Basel Capital Accord where capital requirements loss based on probability of default PD, loss given default LGD and are based on a rms own estimates of certain parameters.
exposure at default EAD, with a one-year time horizon.
Investment grade Exposures A debt security, treasury bill or similar instrument with a credit rating Credit exposures represent the amount lent to a customer, together measured by external agencies of AAA to BBB.
Jaws Exposure at default EAD The rate of income growth less the rate of expense growth, expressed The estimation of the extent to which the Group may be exposed to as positive jaws when income growth exceeds expense growth and a customer or counterparty in the event of, and at the time of, that vice versa for negative jaws.
At default, the customer may not have drawn the loan fully or may already have repaid some of the principal, so that Leveraged finance exposure is typically less than the approved loan limit.
Loans or other nancing agreements provided to companies whose overall level of debt is high in relation to their cash ow net debt: Eurozone EBITDA earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation Represents the 18 European Union countries that have adopted typically arising from private equity sponsor-led acquisitions of the the euro as their common currency.
The 18 countries are Austria, businesses concerned.
Belgium, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Portugal, Slovakia, Liquidity and credit enhancements Slovenia and Spain.
Credit enhancement facilities are used to enhance the creditworthiness of financial obligations and cover losses due to asset default.
Two Forbearance general types of credit enhancement are third-party loan guarantees Forbearance takes place when a concession is made to the contractual and self-enhancement through .
Liquidity terms of a loan in response to an obligors financial liabilities.
enhancement makes funds available if required, for other reasons Foundation Internal Ratings Based Approach than asset default, e. g. to ensure timely repayment of maturing A method of calculating credit risk capital requirements using internal commercial paper.
PD models but with supervisory estimates of LGD and conversion factors for the calculation of EAD.
334 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Glossary continued Liquid asset buffer Net interest income NII These assets include high quality government or central bank The difference between interest received on assets and interest paid securities, certain deposits with central banks and securities issued on liabilities.
by designated multilateral development banks to meet the PRAs Net interest margin requirement for liquidity.
The margin is expressed as net interest income divided by average Liquid asset ratio interest earning assets.
Ratio of total liquid assets to total assets.
Liquid assets comprise Net interest yield cash less restricted balances, net interbank, treasury bills and debt Interest income divided by average interest earning assets less interest securities less illiquid securities.
expense divided by average interest-bearing liabilities.
Liquid cover ratio LCR Net Stable Funding Ratio NSFR A short-term liquidity measure that considers a 30-day period of The ratio of available stable funding to required stable funding over liquidity stress.
a one-year time horizon, assuming a stressed scenario.
It is a longerLoans and advances term liquidity measure designed to restrain the amount of wholesale This represents lending made under bilateral agreements with borrowing and encourage stable funding over a one-year time horizon.
customers entered into in the normal course of business and is based Non-performing loans on the legal form of the instrument.
An example of a loan product is A non-performing loan is any loan that is more than 90 days past due a home loan.
oris otherwise individually impaired, other than a loan which is: Loans to banks Renegotiated before 90 days past due, and on which no default in Amounts loaned to credit institutions including securities bought under interest payments or loss of principal is expected reverse repo.
Renegotiated at or after 90 days past due, but on which there Loans to individuals has been no default in interest or principal payments for more than Money loaned to individuals rather than institutions.
The loans may be 180 days since renegotiation, and against which no loss of principal for car or home purchases, medical care, home repair, holidays, and is expected other consumer uses.
Normalised earnings Loan-to-value ratio LTV profit attributable to ordinary shareholders adjusted for profits or losses The LTV ratio is a mathematical calculation which expresses the of a capital nature: amounts consequent to investment transactions amount of a first mortgage lien as a percentage of the total appraised driven by strategic intent: and other infrequent and or exceptional value of real property.
The LTV ratio is used in determining the transactions that are significant or material in the context of the Groups appropriate level of risk for the loan and therefore the correct price of normal business earnings for the period.
Over the counter OTC derivatives Loans past due A bilateral transaction e. g. derivatives that is not exchange traded and Loans on which payments have been due for up to a maximum of 90 that is valued using valuation models.
days including those on which partial payments are being made.
Pre-provision profit Loss given default LGD Operating profit before impairment losses and taxation.
LGD is the percentage of an exposure that a lender expects to lose in the event of obligor default.
Private equity investments Equity securities in operating companies generally not quoted on a Master netting agreement public exchange.
Investment in private equity often involves the An agreement between two counterparties that have multiple derivative investment of capital in private companies.
Capital for private equity contracts with each other that provides for the net settlement of all investment is raised by retail or institutional investors and used to fund contracts through a single payment, in a single currency, in the event of investment strategies such as leveraged buyouts, venture capital, default on, or termination of, any one contract.
growth capital, distressed investments and mezzanine capital.
Mezzanine capital Probability of default PD Financing that combines debt and equity characteristics.
For example, PD is an internal estimate for each borrower grade of the likelihood that a loan that also confers some profit participation to the lender.
an obligor will default on an obligation.
Mortgage Backed Securities MBS profit attributable to ordinary shareholders Securities that represent interests in a group of mortgages.
Investors in profit for the year after non-controlling interests and dividends declared these securities have the right to cash received from future mortgage in respect of preference shares classied as equity.
payments interest and or principal.
Renegotiated loans Mortgage related assets Loans and advances are generally renegotiated either as part of an Assets which are referenced to underlying mortgages.
ongoing customer relationship or in response to an adverse change in Medium term notes MTNs the circumstances of the borrower.
In the latter case renegotiation can Corporate notes continuously offered by a company to investors result in an extension of the due date of payment or repayment plans through a dealer.
Investors can choose from differing maturities, under which the Group offers a concessionary rate of interest to ranging from nine months to 30 years.
Such assets will be individually impaired where the renegotiated payments of interest and principal will Net asset value per share not recover the original carrying amount of the asset and are dened as Ratio of net assets total assets less total liabilities to the number of forborne loans.
In other cases, renegotiation may lead to a new ordinary shares outstanding at the end of a reporting period.
agreement, which would be treated as a new loan.
Supplementary information 335 Repo reverse repo Standardised approach A repurchase agreement or repo is a short-term funding agreement In relation to credit risk, a method for calculating credit risk capital which allows a borrower to sell a financial asset, such as ABS or requirements using External Credit Assessment Institutions ECAI Government bonds as collateral for cash.
As part of the agreement the ratings and supervisory risk weights.
In relation to operational risk, borrower agrees to repurchase the security at some later date, usually a method of calculating the operational capital requirement by the less than 30 days, repaying the proceeds of the loan.
For the party on application of a supervisory dened percentage charge to the gross the other end of the transaction buying the security and agreeing to sell income of eight specified business lines.
in the future it is a reverse repurchase agreement or reverse repo.
Stressed value at risk Residential mortgage A regulatory market risk measure based on potential market A loan to purchase a residential property which is then used as movements for a continuous one-year period of stress for a collateral to guarantee repayment of the loan.
The borrower gives the trading portfolio.
lender a lien against the property, and the lender can foreclose on the Structured finance notes property if the borrower does not repay the loan per the agreed terms.
A structured note is an investment tool which pays a return linked to the Also known as a home loan.
value or level of a specified asset or index and sometimes offers capital Residential Mortgage Backed Securities RMBS protection if the value declines.
Structured notes can be linked to Securities that represent interests in a group of residential mortgages.
equities, interest rates, funds, commodities and foreign currency.
Investors in these securities have the right to cash received from future Subordinated liabilities mortgage payments interest and or principal.
Liabilities which, in the event of insolvency or liquidation of the issuer, Return on equity ROE are subordinated to the claims of depositors and other creditors of Represents the ratio of the current years profit available for distribution the issuer.
to ordinary shareholders to the weighted average ordinary Sub-prime shareholders equity for the reporting period.
Sub-prime is dened as loans to borrowers typically having weakened Risks-not-in-VaR RNIV credit histories that include payment delinquencies and potentially A framework for identifying and quantifying marginal types of market more severe problems such as court judgments and bankruptcies.
risk that are not captured in the value at risk VaR measure for any They may also display reduced repayment capacity as measured by reason, such as being fat-tail risk or the necessary historical market credit scores, high debt-to-income ratios, or other criteria indicating data not being available.
Risk-weighted assets RWA Tangible net asset value per share A measure of a banks assets adjusted for their associated risks.
Risk Ratio of parent shareholders equity less preference shares classied weightings are established in accordance with the Basel Capital as equity and goodwill and intangible assets to the number of ordinary Accord as implemented by the PRA.
shares outstanding at the end of the reporting period.
Seasoning Tier 1 capital The emergence of credit loss patterns in portfolios over time.
Tier 1 capital comprises Core Tier 1 capital plus innovative Tier 1 securities and preference shares and tax on excess expected losses Secured fully and partially less material holdings in credit or financial institutions.
A secured loan is a loan in which the borrower pledges an asset as collateral for a loan which, in the event that the borrower defaults, the Tier 1 capital ratio Group is able to take possession of.
All secured loans are considered Tier 1 capital as a percentage of risk-weighted assets.
fully secured if the fair value of the collateral is equal to or greater than Tier 2 capital the loan at the time of origination.
All other secured loans are Tier 2 capital comprises qualifying subordinated liabilities, allowable considered to be partly secured.
portfolio impairment provision and unrealised gains in the eligible Securitisation revaluation reserves arising from the fair valuation of equity instruments Securitisation is a process by which debt instruments are aggregated held as available-for-sale.
into a pool, which is used to back new securities.
A company sells UK bank levy assets to a structured entities SE who then issues securities backed A levy that applies to certain UK banks and the UK operations of foreign by the assets based on their value.
This allows the credit quality of the banks from 1 January 2011.
The levy is payable each year based on a assets to be separated from the credit rating of the original company percentage of the chargeable liabilities of the Group as at 31 December.
and transfers risk to external investors.
Value at risk VaR Senior debt Value at risk is an estimate of the potential loss which might arise from Senior debt, frequently issued in the form of senior notes, is debt that market movements under normal market conditions, if the current takes priority over other unsecured or otherwise more junior debt positions were to be held unchanged for one business day, measured owed by the issuer.
Senior debt has greater seniority in the issuers to a confidence level of 97.5 per cent.
capital structure after subordinated debt.
In the event the issuer goes bankrupt, senior debt theoretically must be repaid before other Working profit creditors receive any payment.
Operating profit before impairment losses and taxation.
Sovereign exposures Write-downs Exposures to central governments and central government After an advance has been identied as impaired and is subject to an departments, central banks and entities owned or guaranteed by the impairment allowance, the stage may be reached whereby it is aforementioned.
Sovereign exposures as dened by the European concluded that there is no realistic prospect of further recovery.
Banking Authority includes only exposures to central governments.
Write-downs will occur when and to the extent that, the whole or part of a debt is considered irrecoverable.
