330 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Shareholder information Dividend and interest payment dates Final Interim dividend Ordinary shares dividend provisional only Results and dividend announced 5 March 2014 6 August 2014 Ex dividend date 12 March 2014 13 August 2014 Record date for dividend 14 March 2014 15 August 2014 Last date to elect for share dividend or to change standing instructions 24 April 2014 2 October 2014 Dividend payment date 14 May 2014 17 October 2014 Preference shares 1st half-yearly dividend 2nd half-yearly dividend 3 7 8 per cent Non-cumulative irredeemable preference shares of 1 each 1 April 2014 1 October 2014 1 8 4 per cent Non-cumulative irredeemable preference shares of 1 each 1 April 2014 1 October 2014 6.409 per cent Non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of $5 each 30 January 2014 30 July 2014 7.014 per cent Non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of $5 each 30 January 2014 30 July 2014 Annual general meeting The annual general meeting AGM will be held at 11.00 am London time 6.00 pm Hong Kong time on Thursday 8 May 2014 at etc.
Details of the business to be transacted at the AGM are included in the accompanying Notice of AGM.
Details of voting at the Companys AGM and of proxy votes cast can be found on the Companys website at investors.
Interim results The interim results will be announced to the London Stock Exchange, The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, the Bombay Stock Exchange and put on the Companys website.
Country-by-Country Reporting In accordance with the requirements of the Capital Requirements Country-by-Country Reporting Regulations 2013, which are effective from 1January 2014, the Group will publish additional country-by-country information in respect of the year ended 31 December 2013, on or before 1July 2014.
This information will be available on the Groups website at www.
com ShareCare ShareCare is available to shareholders on the Companys UK register who have a UK address and bank account, and allows you to hold your Standard Chartered shares in a nominee account.
Your shares will be held in electronic form so you will no longer have to worry about keeping your share certicates safe.
If you join ShareCare you will still be invited to attend the Companys AGM and receive your dividend at the same time as everyone else.
ShareCare is free to join and there are no annual fees to pay.
If you would like to receive more information please visit our website at investors.
cfm or contact the shareholder helpline on 0870 702 0138.
An alternative is to consider donating them statements that are based on current expectations or beliefs, as well as to the charity ShareGift registered charity 1052686, which collects assumptions about future events.
These forward-looking statements donations of unwanted shares until there are enough to sell and uses can be identied by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or the proceeds to support UK charities.
Further information can be current facts.
Forward-looking statements often use words such as obtained from the Companys Registrars or from ShareGift on anticipate, target, expect, estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe, will, may, 0207930 3737 or from www.
There is no implication for should, would, could or other words of similar meaning.
Undue reliance Capital Gains Tax no gain or loss when you donate shares to charity should not be placed on any such statements because, by their very and UK taxpayers may be able to claim income tax relief on the value of nature, they are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties their donation.
and can be affected by other factors that could cause actual results, and the Groups plans and objectives, to differ materially from those Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements.
Dividends can be paid straight into your bank or building society account.
Please register online at www.
co. uk or contact There are several factors which could cause actual results to differ our registrar for a mandate form.
materially from those expressed or implied in forward-looking statements.
Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ Registrars and shareholder enquiries materially from those described in the forward-looking statements are If you have any enquiries relating to your shareholding and you hold changes in the global, political, economic, business, competitive, your shares on the United Kingdom register, please contact our market and regulatory forces, future exchange and interest rates, registrar Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, changes in tax rates and future business combinations or dispositions.
Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7ZY shareholder helpline number 0870702 0138.
Any forward-looking statement contained in this document is based onpast or current trends and or activities of the Group and should not If you hold your shares on the Hong Kong branch register please be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue contact Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited at in the future.
17MFloor, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queens Road East, Hong Kong.
Youcan check your shareholding at: www.
co. uk The Group undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forwardlooking statement contained within this document, regardless of If you hold Indian Depository Receipts and you have enquiries, please whether those statements are affected as a result of new information, contact Karvy Computershare Private Limited, 17-24, Vithalrao Nagar, future events or otherwise.
Chinese translation If you would like a Chinese version of the 2013 Report and Accounts please contact: Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited at 17M Floor, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queens Road East, Wan Chai, Hong Kong.
Shareholders on the Hong Kong branch register who have asked to receive corporate communications in either Chinese or English can change this election by contacting Computershare.
If there is a dispute between any translation and the English version of this Report and Accounts, the English text shall prevail.
Taxation Information on taxation applying to dividends paid to you if you are a shareholder in the United Kingdom, Hong Kong or the United States will be sent to you with your dividend documents.
Electronic communications If you hold your shares on the United Kingdom register and in future you would like to receive the Report and Accounts electronically rather than by post, please register online at www.
Then click on Register and follow the instructions.
You will need to have your Shareholder or ShareCare Reference number when you log on.
You can nd this on your share certicate or ShareCare statement.
Once registered you can also submit your proxy vote and dividend election electronically and change your bank mandate or address information.
