236 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements e New accounting standards adopted by the Group 1.
Accounting policies On 1 January 2013, the Group adopted IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, which consolidates the guidance on how to measure fair a Statement of compliance value, which was spread across various IFRS, into one comprehensive The Group financial statements consolidate those of Standard standard.
It introduces the use of an exit price, as well as extensive Chartered PLC the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to disclosure requirements, particularly the inclusion of non-financial as the Group and equity account the Groups interest in associates instruments into the fair value hierarchy.
IFRS 13 is required to be and jointly controlled entities.
The parent company financial statements applied prospectively.
The most significant impact of applying present information about the Company as a separate entity and not IFRS13is the mandatory requirement for the fair value of derivative about its group.
liabilities and other liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss to Both the parent company financial statements and the Group financial take into account an adjustment for an entitys own credit risk and statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in enhanced disclosure of valuation techniques and details on significant accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS unobservable inputs for Level 3 financial instruments.
The adjustment and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as endorsed for own credit risk is recognised as part of Net trading income see by the European Union EU.
EU endorsed IFRS may differ from IFRS note6, and the approach for determining these fair values, along with published by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB if a the enhanced disclosures, are set out in note 15. standard has not been endorsed by the EU.
On 1 January 2013, the group adopted IAS 19 Employee Benets In publishing the parent company financial statements together with the Revised, which introduces significant changes in the measurement, Group financial statements, the Company has taken advantage of the presentation and disclosure of dened benefit plans.
The most exemption in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its significant impact on the Group as a result of these revisions comes in individual statement of comprehensive income and related notes that the form of the rate used to discount the plan assets.
Where this rate form a part of these approved financial statements.
has historically until 31 December 2012 been based on the expected return on each class of pension assets, from 1 January 2013, IAS 19 The following parts of the Risk Review form part of these financial requires assets to be measured based on an AA rated corporate bond statements: Regulatory compliance, review, requests for information yield, which aligns to the rate at which the liability is discounted.
IAS 19 and investigations and Risk of fraud and other criminal acts on page also makes changes to termination benets as well as enhancing 67: from the start of the Risk Management section on page 69 to the disclosure requirements and is required to be applied retrospectively.
end of the Pension Risk section on page 125 excluding: Asset Backed The effect of these changes on total operating expenses and pre-tax Securities, page 106 Mapping of market risk items to the balance profit is not material.
Disclosures on Retirement benefit obligations are sheet, page 113, Encumbered assets, page 117, and Liquidity presented in note 35.
Coverage Ratio and Net Stable Funding Ratio, page 119: and from the start of the Capital Management section on page 128 to the end of On 1 January 2013 the Group adopted IFRS 10 Consolidated Current compliance with Capital Adequacy Regulations on page 129 FinancialStatements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12 Disclosure and from the start of the Capital Base section on page 131 until the of Interests in Other Entities, IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements, end of Movement in total capital on page 132.
IAS28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.
Though the EUhas endorsed these standards for application from 1 January 2014, b Basis of preparation which is one year later than the mandatory adoption date required by The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the the IASB of 1 January 2013, the EU has permitted early adoption from historical cost convention, as modied by the revaluation of cash- 1January 2013. settled share-based payments, available-for-sale assets, and financial assets and liabilities including derivatives at fair value through profit IFRS 10 and 11, IAS 27 and 28 require retrospective application while orloss.
The Company financial statements have been prepared on IFRS 12 is applied prospectively.
IFRS 10 replaces the current guidance ahistorical cost basis, as modied by cash-settled share-based on consolidation in IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial payments and the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities Statements and SIC-12 Special Purpose Entities.
It introduces a single includingderivatives at fair value through profit or loss.
model of assessing control whereby an investor controls an investee when it has the power, exposure to variable returns and the ability to c significant accounting estimates and judgments use its power to inuence the returns of the investee.
IFRS 10 also In determining the carrying amounts of certain assets and liabilities, the includes specic guidance on fide facto control, protective rights and Group makes assumptions of the effects of uncertain future events on thedetermination of whether a decision maker is acting as principal or those assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
The Groups agent, all of which inuence the assessment of control.
The application estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and of IFRS 10 has not had a material impact on the Group.
expectation of future events and are reviewed periodically.
Further information about key assumptions concerning the future, and other IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures.
It requires all joint key sources of estimation uncertainty, are set out in the relevant ventures to be equity accounted thereby removing the option in IAS 31 disclosure notes for the following areas: for proportionate consolidation.
It also removes the IAS 31 concept of jointly controlled assets.
As a result, the Groups joint venture investment Loan loss provisioning refer to Risk review on page 85 in PT Bank Permata Tbk Permata which was proportionately Taxation refer to note 12 consolidated until 31 December 2012, is from 1January 2013 being accounted for using the equity method as mandated under IFRS 11.
Fair value of financial instruments refer to note 15 Theimpact of this change is provided in note 23.
Goodwill impairment refer to note 26 IFRS 12 prescribes additional disclosures around significant judgments Provisions for liabilities and charges refer to note 34 and assumptions made in determining whether an entity controls another entity and has joint control or significant inuence over another Retirement benefit obligations refer to note 35 entity.
The standard also requires disclosures on the nature and risks Share-based payments refer to note 38 associated with interests in unconsolidated structured entities.
The Group has presented disclosures in notes 23 and 24. d Fiduciary activities The Group commonly acts as trustee and in other duciary capacities that result in the holding or placing of assets on behalf of individuals, trusts, retirement benefit plans and other institutions.
The assets and income arising thereon are excluded from these financial statements, as they are not assets and income of the Group.
Financial statements and notes 237 The EU has indicated that it would not endorse IFRS 9 which is 1.
Accounting policies continued required before the Group is permitted to apply the standard until all components have been completed.
Given the uncertainty which On 1 January 2013, the Group adopted Amendments to IFRS 7 continues to surround the final form of IFRS 9, the Group is not yet in a Financial Instruments: Disclosure, these amendments require position to quantify the impact of this accounting standard.
disclosure of the effect or potential effect of netting financial assets andnancial liabilities on an entitys financial position.
This includes Classication and measurement financial instruments transacted under enforceable master netting The classication and measurement phase, as published operates a arrangements or other similar agreements.
The amendments are binary classication model whereby financial assets and liabilities are required to be applied retrospectively and have been endorsed by the classied either at amortised cost or at fair value.
The Groups disclosures relating to netting benets are presented classication is only permitted where the asset is held within a business in note 15. model whose objective is to hold assets in order to collect contractual cash ows and where these contractual cash ows are solely payment f Accounting standards effective 1 January 2014 of principal and interest.
In all other cases the financial asset is classied Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation claries the and measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Fair value movements requirements for offsetting financial assets and liabilities and addresses on non-trading equity instruments may be presented in other inconsistencies noted in current practice when applying the offsetting comprehensive income, though these cannot be recycled to the criteria in IAS 32.
These amendments require retrospective application, income statement upon disposal of the equity instrument.
can be early adopted and have been endorsed by the EU.
Financial liabilities are required to be measured at fair value or Investment Entities amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27, amortised cost as is the case under IAS 39, except that the change in requires entities meeting the denition of an investment entity to not fair value relating to own credit is reported within other comprehensive consolidate its subsidiaries or apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations income and not the income statement.
In November 2013, the IASB when it obtains control of another entity.
An investment entity is dened amended the transition requirements of IFRS 9 to permit early adoption as an entity that: of the own credit element without requiring early adoption of all of the Obtains funds from one or more investor for the purpose of providing requirements of IFRS 9. those investor s with investment management services In November 2012, the IASB issued an exposure draft of limited Commits to its investor s that its business purpose is to invest funds amendments to the classication and measurement requirements of solely for returns from capital appreciation, investment income, or IFRS 9 which proposed introducing a third classication category both where, subject to qualifying criteria, fair value changes on debt instruments would be measured through reserves and will be eligible Measures and evaluates the performance of substantially all of its for recycling.
The IASB is expected to issue the final standard by the investments on a fair value basis end of June 2014.
Entities not meeting the denition of an investment entity, including the Impairment parent company of an eligible investment entity, will continue to Based on its most recent deliberations, the IASB will proceed with consolidate all subsidiaries.
These amendments have been endorsed anexpected loss approach for recognising credit losses.
Under the by EU and are not expected to have a material impact on the Group.
proposed approach expected losses or lifetime expected losses for IFRIC 21 Levies provides guidance when to recognise a liability for a allamortised cost debt instruments would be recognised depending levyimposed by a Government.
IFRIC 21 identies the obligating onwhether or not significant credit deterioration has occurred since eventfor the recognition of a liability.
If that obligating event occurs origination or acquisition.
Where significant deterioration has not overa period of time, the levy is recognised proportionately.
If it is occurred, a provision equating to 12 months of expected losses would triggered by a minimum threshold, the liability is recognised when be recognised whereas if there is a significant deterioration in credit thatthreshold is reached.
This interpretation was endorsed by the risk, lifetime expected losses would be recognised.
The impact of this Interpretation on the Group expected to issue the final standard by the end of June 2014. isnot expected to be significant.
Hedge accounting Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and The IASB has split the hedge accounting phase into two parts: general Measurement: Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge hedging and macro hedging.
The Board issued the general hedging Accounting claries that there would be no need to discontinue hedge phase of IFRS 9 in November 2013, which seeks to deliver a more accounting if a hedging derivative was novated, provided certain principles based standard that aligns hedge accounting more closely criteria are met.
The amendments are not expected to have a significant with risk management.
This includes, among others, assessing hedge impact on the Groups financial statements.
The amendment has been effectiveness through qualitative, forward-looking assessments rather endorsed by the EU.
than using bright lines, and hedging risk components of non-financial items.
A discussion paper on macro hedging is expected in the first Accounting standards mandatorily effective after halfof 2014.
1January2015 g IFRS and Hong Kong accounting requirements IFRS 9 Financial instruments As required by the Hong Kong Listing Rules, an explanation of the When completed IFRS 9 will replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: differences in accounting practices between EU endorsed IFRS Recognition and Measurement and introduce new requirements for andHong Kong Financial Reporting Standards is required to be theclassication and measurement of financial assets and financial disclosed.
There would be no significant differences had these liabilities, a new model for recognising loan loss provisions based accounts been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial onexpected losses and provide for simplied hedge accounting by Reporting Standards.
aligning hedge accounting more closely with an entitys risk management methodology.
As at 31 December 2013, the classication h Prior year restatements and measurement and general hedge accounting phases of IFRS 9 Details of prior year restatements are set out in note 43. hadbeen published and the standard is expected to be nalised as a The accounting policies set out below have been applied whole by the end of June 2014.
In February 2014, the IASB tentatively consistently across the Group and to all periods presented concluded that the effective date for IFRS 9 would be 1 January 2018. inthese financial statements.
238 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued Business combinations 1.
Accounting policies continued The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
Note 25 provides details on i Consolidation business combinations entered into by the Group during 2013.
Subsidiaries The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets Subsidiaries are all entities, including structured entities, which the given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed Group controls.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or atthe date of exchange, together with the fair value of any contingent has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and consideration payable.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the fair value of the Groups share of the identiable net assets and investee.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which the contingent liabilities acquired is recorded as goodwill see note 26 for Group effectively obtains control.
They are fide-consolidated from the details on goodwill recognised by the Group.
If the cost of acquisition date that control ceases, and where any interest in the subsidiary isless than the fair value of the net assets and contingent liabilities of remains, this is remeasured to its fair value and the change in carrying the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the amount is recognised in the income statement.
Details of the Groups income statement.
principal subsidiaries are given in note 23.
Where the fair values of the identiable net assets and contingent Structured entities are consolidated when the substance of the liabilities acquired have been determined provisionally, or where relationship between the Group and the structured entity indicates the contingent or deferred consideration is payable, adjustments arising Groups power over the structured entity.
Details of the Groups use of from their subsequent nalisation are not reected in the income structured entities are set out in note 24. statement if i they arise within 12 months of the acquisition date and Associates and joint arrangements ii the adjustments arise from better information about conditions Joint arrangements are where two or more parties either have rights to existing at the acquisition date measurement period adjustments.
the assets, and obligations of the joint arrangement joint operations or Such adjustments are applied as at the date of acquisition and if have rights to the net assets of the joint arrangement joint venture.
The applicable, prior period amounts are restated.
All changes that are not Group evaluates the contractual terms of joint arrangements to measurement period adjustments are reported in income other than determine whether a joint arrangement is a joint operation or a joint changes in contingent consideration not classied as financial venture.
At 31 December 2013 the Group did not have any contractual instruments, which are accounted for in accordance with the interest in joint operations.
appropriate accounting policy, and changes in contingent consideration classied as equity, which is not remeasured.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Changes in ownership interest in a subsidiary which do not result in a Groups investment in associates and joint ventures includes goodwill loss of control are treated as transactions between equity holders and identied on acquisition net of any accumulated impairment loss.
The are reported in equity.
Groups share of its associates and joint ventures post-acquisition Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the previously profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of held equity interest is remeasured at the acquisition-date fair value with post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is the resulting gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the j Foreign currencies Groups share of losses in an associate or a joint venture equals or Items included in the Group financial statements for each of the Groups exceeds its interest in the associate or joint ventures, including any entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further environment in which the entity operates the functional currency of that losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf entity.
Both the Company and Group financial statements are of the associate or joint venture.
presented in US dollars, which is the functional and presentation currency of the Company and the presentation currency of the Group.
Unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups Transactions and balances interest in the associates and joint ventures.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the transaction date.
At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether there is any Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of objective evidence of impairment in the investment in associates and such transactions, and from the translation at year-end exchange rates joint ventures, evidence of objective evidence is a significant or of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, prolonged decline in the fair value of the Groups investment in an are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and associate or joint venture below its cost is considered, among other liabilities are translated at historical exchange rates if held at historical factors in assessing objective evidence of impairment for associates or cost, or year-end exchange rates if held at fair value, and the resulting joint ventures.
foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in either the income Details of the Groups interest in associates and joint ventures are statement or shareholders equity depending on the treatment of the provided in note 23. gain or loss on the asset or liability.
Investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures In the Companys financial statements, investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are held at cost less impairment and dividends from pre-acquisition profits received prior to 1 January 2009, if any.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losseson transactions between Group companies are eliminated intheGroup accounts.
Financial statements and notes 239 Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of available-for- 1.
Accounting policies continued sale financial assets, other than foreign exchange gains and losses from monetary items, are recognised directly in equity, until the financial Foreign currency translation asset is derecognised or impaired at which time the cumulative gain or The results and financial position of all the entities included in the Group loss previously recognised in equity is recognised in profit or loss.
financial statements that have a functional currency different from the Groups presentation currency are accounted for as follows: Dividends on equity instruments are recognised in the income statement within other income when the Groups right to receive Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated payment is established.
at the closing rate at the balance sheet date Fees and commissions Income and expenses for each income statement are translated at Fees and commissions are generally recognised on an accrual basis average exchange rates or at rates on the date of the transaction when the service has been provided or significant act performed.
Loan where exchange rates uctuate signicantly syndication fees are recognised as revenue when the syndication has All resulting exchange differences arising since 1 January 2004 are been completed and the Group retained no part of the loan package for recognised as a separate component of equity itself, or retained a part at the same effective interest rate as for the other participants.
Portfolio and other management advisory and On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of service fees are recognised based on the applicable service contracts, the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other usually on a time apportionment basis.
currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to other comprehensive income.
When a foreign operation is sold l Cash and cash equivalents or capital repatriated they are recognised in the income statement as For the purposes of the cash ow statement, cash and cash part of the gain or loss on disposal.
equivalents comprise cash, on demand and overnight balances with central banks unless restricted and balances with less than three Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a months maturity from the date of acquisition, including treasury bills foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and other eligible bills, loans and advances to banks, and short-term and translated at the closing rate.
k Income recognition m Financial assets and liabilities classication excluding Income from financial instruments derivatives Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial The Group classies its financial assets into the following measurement instruments held at fair value through profit or loss are included in the categories: a financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss: income statement in the period in which they arise.
Contractual interest b loans and receivables: c held-to-maturity: and d available-for-sale.
income and expense on financial instruments held at fair value through Financial liabilities are classied as either held at fair value through profit profit or loss is recognised within net interest income.
or loss, or at amortised cost.
Management determines the classication of its financial assets and liabilities at initial recognition or, where For available-for-sale assets and financial assets and liabilities held at applicable, at the time of reclassication.
Details of financial assets and amortised cost, interest income and interest expense is recognised liabilities held by the Group are provided in Notes 15, 16 and 17. using the effective interest method.
Financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised or loss cost of a financial asset or a financial liability and of allocating the This category has two sub-categories: financial assets and liabilities interest income or interest expense over the relevant period.
The held for trading, and those designated at fair value through profit or effective interest rate is the rate that discounts estimated future cash lossat inception.
A financial asset or liability is classied as trading if payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability.
When calculating the Financial assets and liabilities may be designated at fair value through effective interest rate, the Group estimates cash ows considering all profit or loss when: contractual terms of the financial instrument for example, prepayment The designation eliminates or signicantly reduces a measurement options but does not consider future credit losses.
The calculation or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise from includes all fees paid or received between parties to the contract that measuring assets or liabilities on a different basis are an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and all other premiums or discounts.
A group of financial assets and or liabilities is managed and its performance evaluated on a fair value basis Where the estimates of cash ows have been revised, the carrying amount of the financial asset or liability is adjusted to reect the actual The assets or liabilities include embedded derivatives and such and revised cash ows, discounted at the instruments original effective derivatives are required to be recognised separately interest rate.
The adjustment is recognised as interest income or For certain loans and advances and debt securities with xed rates expense in the period in which the revision is made.
ofinterest, interest rate swaps have been acquired with the intention If the financial asset has been reclassied, subsequent increases in the ofsignicantly reducing interest rate risk.
To signicantly reduce the estimates of future cash receipts as a result of increased recoverability accounting mismatch between assets and liabilities and measurement are recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest rate from the bases, these loans and advances and debt securities have been date of the change in estimate.
designated at fair value through profit or loss.
Details of financial assets designated at fair value are disclosed in notes 15 and 16.
Once a financial asset or a group of similar financial assets has been written down as a result of an impairment loss, interest income is recognised using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash ows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
240 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued Where representative prices are unreliable because of illiquid markets, 1.
Accounting policies continued the determination of fair value may require estimation of certain parameters, which are calibrated against industry standards and The Group has also designated certain financial liabilities at fair value observable market data, or the use of valuation models that are based through profit or loss where either the liabilities: on observable market data.
Have xed rates of interest and interest rate swaps or other interest Equity investments that do not have an observable market price are fair rate derivatives have been entered into with the intention of valued by applying various valuation techniques, such as earnings signicantly reducing interest rate risk multiples, net assets multiples, discounted cash ows, and industry Are exposed to foreign currency risk and derivatives have been valuation benchmarks.
These techniques are generally applied prior to acquired with the intention of signicantly reducing exposure to any initial public offering, after which an observable market price market changes becomes available.
Disposal of such investments are generally by market trades or private sales.
Have been acquired to fund trading asset portfolios or assets, or where the assets and liabilities are managed, and performance Initial recognition evaluated, on a fair value basis for a documented risk management Purchases and sales of financial assets and liabilities held at fair value or investment strategy through profit or loss, and financial assets classied as held-to-maturity and available-for-sale are initially recognised on the trade-date the date Designation of certain liabilities at fair value through profit or loss on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Loans are signicantly reduces the accounting mismatch between fair value and recognised when cash is advanced to the borrowers.
Details of financial liabilities designated at fair value are disclosed in note 15.
All financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value, which is normally the transaction price plus, for those financial assets and Loans and receivables liabilities not carried at fair value through profit and loss, directly Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed attributable transaction costs.
ordeterminable payments that are not quoted in an active market and itis expected that substantially all of the initial investment will be In certain circumstances, the initial fair value may be based on a recovered, other than because of credit deterioration.
valuation technique which may lead to the recognition of profits or losses at the time of initial recognition.
However, these profits or losses Held-to-maturity can only be recognised when the valuation technique used is based Held-to-maturity assets are non-derivative financial assets with xed solely on observable market data.
In those cases where the initially ordeterminable payments and xed maturities that the Groups recognised fair value is based on a valuation model that uses inputs management has the intention and ability to hold to maturity.
which are not observable in the market, the difference between the Available-for-sale transaction price and the valuation model is not recognised Available-for-sale assets are those non-derivative financial assets immediately in the income statement.
intended to be held for an indefinite period of time, which may be sold The difference is amortised to the income statement until the inputs inresponse to liquidity requirements or changes in interest rates, become observable, or the transaction matures or is terminated.
exchange rates, commodity prices or equity prices.
Subsequent measurement Further details on the application of these policies is set out in note 15.
Financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss are Financial liabilities held at amortised cost subsequently carried at fair value, with gains and losses arising from Financial liabilities, which include borrowings, not classied held at fair changes in fair value taken directly to the net trading income line in the value through profit or loss are classied as amortised cost instruments.
Preference shares which carry a mandatory coupon that represents Available-for-sale financial assets are subsequently carried at fair value, amarket rate of interest at the issue date, or which are redeemable on with gains and losses arising from changes in fair value taken to the aspecic date or at the option of the shareholder are classied as available-for-sale reserve within equity until the asset is sold, or is financial liabilities and are presented in other borrowed funds.
The impaired, when the cumulative gain or loss is transferred to the income dividends on these preference shares are recognised in the income statement.
statement as interest expense on an amortised cost basis using the Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity financial assets are effective interest method.
subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest Fair value of financial assets and liabilities method.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to Financial liabilities are subsequently stated at amortised cost, with any transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants difference between proceeds net of directly attributable transaction at the measurement date in the principal or in the absence of the most costs and the redemption value recognised in the income statement advantageous market to which the Group has access at that date.
over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Thefair value of a liability reects its non-performance risk.
In addition to these instruments, the carrying value of a financial The fair values of quoted financial assets and liabilities in active instrument carried at amortised cost that is the hedged item in a marketsare based on current prices.
A market is regarded as active if qualifying fair value hedge relationship is adjusted by the fair value gain transactions for the asset or liability take place with sufficient frequency or loss attributable to the hedged risk.
and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.
If the market for a financial instrument, and for unlisted securities, is not Impairment of financial assets active, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is These include the use of recent arms length transactions, discounted objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is cash ow analysis, option pricing models and other valuation impaired.
A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and techniques commonly used by market participants.
impairment losses are incurred if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events occurring after the initial recognition of the asset a loss event, and that loss event or events has an impact on the estimated future cash ows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
Financial statements and notes 241 Future cash ows in a group of financial assets that are collectively 1.
Accounting policies continued evaluated for impairment are based on the probability of default inherent within the portfolio of impaired loans or receivables and the The Group considers the following factors in assessing objective historical loss experience for assets with credit risk characteristics evidence of impairment: similar to those in the group.
Historical loss experience is adjusted on Whether the counterparty is in default of principal or the basis of current observable data to reect the effects of current interestpayments conditions that did not affect the period on which the historical loss experience is based, and to remove the effects of conditions in the When a counterparty les for bankruptcy protection or the local historical period that do not exist currently.
equivalent and this would avoid or delay discharge of its obligation To the extent a loan is irrecoverable, it is written off against the related Where the Group les to have the counterparty declared bankrupt provision for loan impairment.
Such loans are written off after all the orles a similar order in respect of a credit obligation necessary procedures have been completed, it is decided that there is Where the Group consents to a restructuring of the obligation, no realistic probability of recovery and the amount of the loss has been resulting in a diminished financial obligation, demonstrated determined.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off by a material forgiveness of debt or postponement of decrease the amount of the provision for loan impairment in the income scheduledpayments statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an Where the Group sells a credit obligation at a material credit-related eventoccurring after the impairment was recognised such as an economic loss improvement in the debtors credit rating, the previously recognised Where there are observable data indicating that there is a impairment loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance account.
measurable decrease in the estimated future cash ows of a group of Theamount of the reversal is recognised in the income statement.
financial assets, although the decrease cannot yet be identied with Further details on the application of these policies is set out in the specic individual financial assets Riskreview on pages 85 to 86.
Assets carried at amortised cost Available-for-sale assets The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment Where objective evidence of impairment exists for available-for-sale exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not between the amortised cost and the current fair value, less any individually significant.
impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the If the Group determines that no objective evidence of impairment exists income statement is reclassied from equity and recognised in the for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, income statement.
A significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of itincludes the asset in a group of financial assets with similar credit an equity security below its cost is considered, among other factors, in riskcharacteristics and collectively assesses them for impairment.
assessing objective evidence of impairment for equity securities.
Assetsthat are individually assessed for impairment and for which an If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classied impairment loss is or continues to be recognised, are not included in as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively acollective assessment of impairment.
related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised, If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a loan and the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement.
receivable or a held-to-maturity asset has been incurred, the amount Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity ofthe loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows excluding Renegotiated loans future credit losses that have not been incurred, discounted at the Loans whose original terms have been modied including those subject assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset to forbearance strategies are considered renegotiated loans.
If the is reduced through the use of an allowance account and the amount of renegotiations are on terms that are not consistent with those readily the loss is recognised in the income statement.
If a loan and receivable available on the market, this provides objective evidence of impairment or held-to-maturity asset has a variable interest rate, the discount rate and the loan is assessed accordingly.
for measuring any impairment loss is the current effective interest rate determined under the contract.
As a practical expedient, the Group Offsetting financial instruments may measure impairment on the basis of an instruments fair value Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in using an observable market price.
the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or The calculation of the present value of the estimated future cash ows to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
of a collateralised financial asset reects the cash ows that may result from foreclosure, less costs for obtaining and selling the collateral, Further details on offsetting are set out in note 15. whether or not foreclosure is probable.
Further details on collateral held Reclassications by the Group is discussed in the Risk review on page 83.
For the Reclassications of financial assets, other than as set out below, or of purposes of a collective evaluation of impairment, financial assets are financial liabilities between measurement categories are not permitted grouped on the basis of similar credit risk characteristics i. e. on the following initial recognition.
basis of the Groups grading process which considers asset type, industry, geographic location, collateral type, past-due status and other Held for trading non-derivative financial assets can only be transferred relevant factors.
These characteristics are relevant to the estimation of out of the held at fair value through profit or loss category in the future cash ows for groups of such assets being indicative of the following circumstances: to the available-for-sale category, where, in debtors ability to pay all amounts due according to the contractual rare circumstances, they are no longer held for the purpose of selling or terms of the assets being evaluated.
repurchasing in the near term: or to the loan and receivables category, where they are no longer held for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term and they would have met the denition of a loan and receivable at the date of reclassication and the Group has the intent and ability to hold the assets for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
242 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued Fair values may be obtained from quoted market prices in active 1.
Accounting policies continued markets, recent market transactions, and valuation techniques, including discounted cash ow models and option pricing models, Financial assets can only be transferred out of the available-for-sale asappropriate.
Where the initially recognised fair value of a derivative category to the loan and receivables category where they would have contract is based on a valuation model that uses inputs which are met the denition of a loan and receivable at the date of reclassication notobservable in the market, it follows the same initial recognition and the Group has the intent and ability to hold the assets for the accounting policy as for other financial assets and liabilities.
foreseeable future or until maturity.
Allderivatives are carried as assets when fair value is positive and Held-to-maturity assets must be reclassied to the available-for-sale asliabilities when fair value is negative.
category if the portfolio becomes tainted following the sale of other than Certain derivatives embedded in other financial instruments, such an insignicant amount of held-to-maturity assets prior to their maturity.
asthe conversion option in a convertible bond held, are valued as Financial assets are reclassied at their fair value on the date of separate derivatives when their economic characteristics and risks reclassication.
For financial assets reclassied out of the availablearenot closely related to those of the host contract and the host for-sale category into loans and receivables, any gain or loss on contract is not carried at fair value through profit or loss.
These thoseassets recognised in shareholders equity prior to the date embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in fair ofreclassication is amortised to the income statement over the value recognised in the income statement.
Embedded derivatives remaining life of the financial asset, using the effective interest method.
continue to be presented with the host contract and are not separately disclosed or included within derivatives.
Details of reclassications are set out in note 15.
The method of recognising the resulting fair value gain or loss depends Sale and repurchase agreements on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if Securities sold subject to repurchase agreements repos remain on so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain thebalance sheet: the counterparty liability is included in deposits by derivatives as either: 1 hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or banks, or customer accounts, as appropriate.
Securities purchased liabilities or rm commitments fair value hedge : 2 hedges of highly under agreements to resell reverse-repos are recorded as loans and probable future cash ows attributable to a recognised asset or liability, advances to other banks or customers, as appropriate.
The difference or a forecast transaction cash ow hedge : or 3 hedges of the net between sale and repurchase price is treated as interest and accrued investment of a foreign operation net investment hedges.
over the life of the agreements using the effective interest method.
Hedge accounting is used for derivatives designated in this way Securities lent to counterparties are also retained in the financial provided certain criteria are met.
Securities borrowed are not recognised in the financial statements, unless these are sold to third parties, in which case the The Group and Company documents, at the inception of the purchase and sale are recorded with the gain or loss included in transaction, the relationship between hedging instruments and tradingincome.
hedgeditems, as well as its risk management objective and strategy forundertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also Details of repo and reverse-repo transactions entered into by the Group documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing are provided in note 15. basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions Derecognition are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash ows of Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash hedged items.
owsfrom the financial assets have expired or where the Group Details of the derivative financial instruments held by the Group, hastransferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
including those held for hedge accounting are provided in note 17.
Ifsubstantially all the risks and rewards have been neither retained nor transferred and the Group has retained control, the assets continue to Fair value hedge be recognised to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedging instruments are recorded in the income statement, Financial liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished.
together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or Anancial liability is extinguished when the obligation is discharged, liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
If the hedge no longer cancelled or expires.
meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying If the Group purchases its own debt, it is removed from the balance amount of a hedged item for which the effective interest method is sheet, and the difference between the carrying amount of the liability usedis amortised to the income statement over the period to maturity and the consideration paid is included in Other income.
n Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Cash ow hedge Derivatives are financial instruments that derive their value in response The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are to changes in interest rates, financial instrument prices, commodity designated and qualify as cash ow hedging instruments is recognised prices, foreign exchange rates, credit risk and indices.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is categorised as trading unless they are designated as hedging recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassied to the income All derivatives are initially recognised and subsequently measured at statement in the periods in which the hedged item affects profit or loss.
fair value, with all revaluation gains recognised in profit and loss except When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no where cash ow or net investment hedging has been achieved, in longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or which case the effective portion of changes in fair value is recognised loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised within other comprehensive income.
when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Financial statements and notes 243 sets out the major cash generating units to which goodwill has 1.
Net investment hedge Acquired intangibles Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for At the date of acquisition of a subsidiary or associate, intangible assets similarly to cash ow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging which are deemed separable and that arise from contractual or other instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in legal rights are capitalised and included within the net identiable the translation reserve: the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion assets acquired.
These intangible assets are initially measured at fair is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses value, which reects market expectations of the probability that the accumulated in equity are reclassied to the income statement when future economic benets embodied in the asset will ow to the entity, the foreign operation is disposed of.
and are amortised on the basis of their expected useful lives 4 to 16 years.
At each balance sheet date, these assets are assessed for Further details on the application of these policies are set out in note 17. indicators of impairment.
In the event that an assets carrying amount is Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting determined to be greater than its recoverable amount, the asset is Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments not written down immediately.
qualifyingforhedge accounting are recognised immediately in Computer software theincomestatement.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the o Leases costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specic software.
Costs associated with the development of software are capitalised where it is Where a Group company is the lessee probable that it will generate future economic benets in excess of its The leases entered into by the Group are primarily operating leases.
Computer software costs are amortised on the basis of expected The total payments made under operating leases are charged to the useful life three to five years.
Costs associated with maintaining income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
software are recognised as an expense as incurred.
At each balance When an operating lease is terminated before the lease period has sheet date, these assets are assessed for indicators of impairment.
In expired, any payment required to be made to the lessor by way of the event that an assets carrying amount is determined to be greater penalty is recognised as an expense in the period in which termination than its recoverable amount, the asset is written down immediately.
Property, plant and equipment Where the Group is a lessee under finance leases, the leased assets Land and buildings comprise mainly branches and ofces.
All property, are capitalised and included in Property, plant and equipment with a plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation corresponding liability to the lessor recognised in Other liabilities.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly Finance charges payable are recognised over the period of the lease attributable to the acquisition of the assets.
based on the interest rate implicit in the lease to give a constant Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or are periodic rate of return.
recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is Where a Group company is the lessor probable that future economic benets associated with the item will When assets are leased to customers under finance leases, the present ow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
value of the lease payments is recognised as a receivable.
The Allother repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement difference between the gross receivable and the present value of the during the financial period in which they are incurred.
receivable is recognised as unearned finance income.
Lease income is Freehold land is not depreciated although it is subject to impairment recognised over the term of the lease using the net investment method testing.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straightbefore tax, which reects a constant periodic rate of return ignoring line method to allocate their cost to their residual values over their tax cash ows.
estimated useful lives, as follows: Assets leased to customers under operating leases are included within Buildings up to 50 years Property, plant and equipment and depreciated over their useful lives.
Rental income on these leased assets is recognised in the income Leasehold improvements life of lease, up to 50 years statement on a straight-line basis unless another systematic basis is Equipment and motor vehicles three to 15 years more representative.
Aircraft and Ships up to 25 years p Intangible and tangible xed assets The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted Goodwill if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
At each balance sheet date, Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair assets are also assessed for indicators of impairment.
In the event that value of the Groups share of the identiable net assets and contingent an assets carrying amount is determined to be greater than its liabilities of the acquired subsidiary, associate or joint venture at the recoverable amount, the asset is written down immediately to the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included recoverable amount.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates and joint ventures is included in Investments in associates and joint ventures.
Gains and losses on disposals are included in the income statement.
Goodwill included in intangible assets is assessed at each balance q Taxation sheet date for impairment and carried at cost less any accumulated Income tax payable on profits is based on the applicable tax law in each impairment losses.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity jurisdiction and is recognised as an expense in the period in which include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Detailed calculations are performed based on discounting expected pre-tax cash ows of the relevant cash generating units and Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary discounting these at an appropriate discount rate, the determination differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and ofwhich requires the exercise of judgment.
Goodwill is allocated to their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Cash Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have generating units represent the lowest level within the Group at which been enacted or substantially enacted as at the balance sheet date, the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
These and that are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax aresmaller than the Groups reportable segments as set out in note 2 asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
as the Group views its reportable segments on a global basis.
Note 26 244 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued the expense is recognised over period from the date of grant to the 1.
Accounting policies continued vesting date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that future For equity-settled awards, the total amount to be expensed over taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences thevesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of can be utilised.
theoptions at the date of grant, which excludes the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, profitability and growth Current and deferred tax relating to items which are charged or targets.
The fair value of equity instruments granted is based on credited directly to equity, is credited or charged directly to equity and marketprices, if available, at the date of grant.
In the absence of is subsequently recognised in the income statement together with the marketprices, the fair value of the instruments is estimated using an current or deferred gain or loss.
appropriate valuation technique, such as a binomial option pricing Details of the income statement tax charge are produced in note 12 and model.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions of deferred taxation in note 28. about the number of options that are expected to vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options r Provisions that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision of Provisions for restructuring costs and legal claims are recognised when original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
Forfeitures past events: it is more likely than not that an outow of resources will be priorto vesting attributable to factors other than the failure to satisfy required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably anon-market vesting condition are treated as a cancellation and the estimated.
Where a liability arises based on participation in a market at remaining unamortised charge is debited to the income statement at a specified date such as the UK bank levy, the obligation is recognised the time of cancellation.
in the financial statements on that date and is not accrued over the period.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when s Employee benets the options are exercised.
Retirement benefit obligations Cash-settled awards are revalued at each balance sheet date and The Group operates a number of pension and other post-retirement aliability recognised on the balance sheet for all unpaid amounts, benefit plans around the world, including dened contribution plans withany changes in fair value charged or credited to staff costs in the and dened benefit plans.
income statement until the awards are exercised.
Where forfeitures For dened contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly occur prior to vesting that are attributable to factors other than a or privately administered pension plans on a mandatory, contractual or failureto satisfy market-based performance conditions, the voluntary basis, and such amounts are charged to operating expenses.
cumulativecharge incurred up to the date of forfeiture is credited to The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions theincome statement.
The Company records the value of the equity settled awards as For funded dened benefit plans, the liability recognised in the balance adeemed investment in subsidiaries.
Any revaluation related to sheet is the present value of the dened benefit obligation at the cash-settled awards is recorded as an amount due from balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets.
dened benefit plans the liability recognised at the balance sheet date Details of the Groups share-based compensation schemes are set out is the present value of the dened benefit obligation.
The dened in note 38. benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit method.
The present value of the dened benefit t Share capital obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares outows using an interest rate equal to the yield on high-quality oroptions are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the theproceeds.
benets will be paid, and that have a term to maturity approximating to Dividends on ordinary shares and preference shares classied as the term of the related pension liability.
equity are recognised in equity in the period in which they are declared.
Actuarial gains and losses that arise are recognised in shareholders Where the Company or other members of the consolidated Group equity and presented in the statement of other comprehensive income purchases the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid in the period they arise.
The Group determines the net interest expense is deducted from the total shareholders equity of the Group and or of on the net dened liability for the year by applying the discount rate the Company as treasury shares until they are cancelled.
Where such used to measure the dened benefit obligation at the beginning of the shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is annual period to the then net dened benefit liability, taking into account included in shareholders equity of the Group and or the Company.
any changes in the net dened benefit liability during the year as a result of contributions and benefit payment.
Net interest expense and other Details of the Groups share capital are set out in note 36. expense related to dened benefit plans are recognised in the income u Assets held for sale statement.
Non-current assets such as property and disposal groups including Details of the Groups retirement benefit obligations are provided in both assets and liabilities of the disposal groups are classied as held note35.
for sale and measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell when i their carrying amounts will be recovered Share-based compensation principally through sale, ii they are available for sale in their present The Group operates equity-settled and cash-settled share-based condition, and iii their sale is highly probable.
Immediately before the compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received initial classication as held for sale, the carrying amount of the assets in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
or assets and liabilities in the disposal group are measured in For deferred share awards granted as part of an annual performance accordance with the applicable accounting policies described above.
award, the expense is recognised over the period from the start of the performance period to the vesting date.
For example, the expense forawards granted in 2013 in respect of 2012 performance, which vestin2014-2016, is recognised as an expense over the period from 1January 2012 to the vesting dates in 2014-2016.
For all other awards Financial statements and notes 245 2.
Segmental Information The Group is organised on a worldwide basis for management and reporting purposes into two main business segments: Consumer Banking and Wholesale Banking.
The products offered by these segments are summarised under Income by product below.
The businesses focus is onbroadening and deepening the relationship with clients and customers, rather than maximising a particular product line.
Hence the Group evaluates segmental performance based on overall profit or loss before taxation excluding corporate items not allocated and not individual product profitability.
Product revenue information is used as a way of assessing client and customer needs and trends in the market place.
Thestrategies adopted by Consumer Banking and Wholesale Banking need to be adapted to local market and regulatory requirements, which isthe responsibility of country management teams.
While not the primary driver of the business, country performance is an important part of the Groups matrix structure and is also used to evaluate performance and reward staff.
Corporate items not allocated are not aggregated into the businesses because of the one-off nature of these items.
The Groups entity-wide disclosure which includes profit before tax, net interest margin and structure of the Groups deposits comprises geographic areas, classied by the location of the customer, except for Financial Market products which are classied by the location of thedealer.
Transactions between the business segments and geographic areas are carried out on an arms length basis.
Apart from the entities that have been acquired in the last two years, Group central expenses have been distributed between the business segments and geographic areas in proportion to their direct costs, and the benefit of the Groups capital has been distributed between segments in proportion to their average risk-weighted assets.
In the year in which an acquisition is made, the Group does not charge or allocate the benefit of the Groups capital.
The distribution of central expenses is phased in over two years, based on the estimate of central management costs associated with the acquisition.
As disclosed in note 46, the Group will adopt a new segmental disclosure in 2014 following a reorganisation of its business.
By class of business 4 2013 2012 Total Corporate Total Corporate Consumer Wholesale reportable items not Consumer Wholesale reportable items not 1 2 3 Banking Banking segments allocated Total Banking Banking segments allocated Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Internal income 9 9 16 16 Net interest income 4,940 6,216 11,156 11,156 4,780 6,001 10,781 10,781 Non interest income 2,230 5,391 7,621 7,621 2,257 5,655 7,912 90 8,002 Operating income 7,179 11,598 18,777 18,777 7,021 11,672 18,693 90 18,783 Operating expenses 4,632 5,326 9,958 235 10,193 4,596 5,952 10,548 174 10,722 Operating profit before impairment losses and taxation 2,547 6,272 8,819 235 8,584 2,425 5,720 8,145 84 8,061 Impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit risk provisions 1,034 583 1,617 1,617 674 522 1,196 1,196 Other impairment Goodwill impairment 1,000 1,000 Other impairment 7 122 129 129 45 151 196 196 profit from associates and joint ventures 44 182 226 226 43 139 182 182 profit before taxation 1,550 5,749 7,299 1,235 6,064 1,749 5,186 6,935 84 6,851 Total assets employed 138,764 528,783 667,547 6,833 674,380 138,699 484,473 623,172 8,036 631,208 Total liabilities employed 191,275 435,038 626,313 1,226 627,539 186,327 397,599 583,926 1,227 585,153 Other segment items: 5 Capital expenditure 235 1,216 1,451 1,451 204 2,042 2,246 2,246 Depreciation 133 300 433 433 147 259 406 406 Investment in associates and joint ventures 537 1,230 1,767 1,767 559 1,125 1,684 1,684 Amortisation of intangible assets 87 194 281 281 81 173 254 254 1 Wholesale Banking non-interest income includes own credit adjustment OCA of $106 million 2 Relates to UK bank levy and goodwill impairment charge on Korea business 3 Relates to profits realised from repurchase of subordinated liabilities and UK bank levy 4 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 43 5 Includes capital expenditure in Wholesale Banking of $874 million in respect of operating lease assets 2012: $1,788 million 246 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Segmental Information continued The following table details entity-wide operating income by product: 2013 2012 $million $million Consumer Banking Cards, Personal Loans and Unsecured Lending 2,802 2,668 Wealth Management 1,296 1,268 Deposits 1,414 1,526 Mortgage and Auto Finance 1,425 1,298 Other 242 261 7,179 7,021 Wholesale Banking Lending and Portfolio Management 818 837 Transaction Banking Trade 1,845 1,915 Cash Management and Custody 1,629 1,721 Global Markets 1 Financial Markets 3,756 3,657 Asset and Liability Management ALM 754 837 Corporate Finance 2,519 2,222 Principal Finance 277 483 7,306 7,199 11,598 11,672 1 Includes $106 million 2012: $nil benets relating to own credit adjustment OCA Entity-wide information By geography The Group manages its reportable business segments on a global basis.
The operations are based in eight main geographic areas.
The UK is the home country of the Company.
Other capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment note27 and software related intangibles note 26 including any post-acquisition additions made by the acquired entities Financial statements and notes 247 2.
Segmental Information continued 2012 Other Middle East Americas, Hong Asia & Other UK & 1 Kong Singapore Korea Pacific India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Internal income 111 107 85 93 129 84 60 285 Net interest income 1,564 1,251 1,421 2,168 920 1,143 917 1,397 10,781 Fees and commissions income, net 830 551 210 677 304 471 416 620 4,079 Net trading income 653 377 147 575 157 448 157 225 2,739 Other operating income 190 131 159 159 75 88 43 339 1,184 Operating income 3,348 2,203 1,852 3,672 1,585 2,234 1,593 2,296 18,783 Operating expenses 1,572 1,169 1,081 2,258 753 1,100 784 2,005 10,722 Operating profit before impairment losses and taxation 1,776 1,034 771 1,414 832 1,134 809 291 8,061 Impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit risk provisions 109 66 249 221 165 316 38 32 1,196 Other impairment 7 2 8 157 9 32 1 196 Profit from associates and joint ventures 181 1 182 Profit before taxation 1,660 966 514 1,217 676 786 771 261 6,851 2 Capital expenditure 1,825 232 22 18 22 55 31 41 2,246 1 Americas, UK & Europe includes operating income of $1,187 million in respect of the UK, the Companys country of domicile 2 Includes capital expenditure in Hong Kong of $1,788 million in respect of operating lease assets.
Other capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment note 27 and software related intangibles note 26 including any post-acquisition additions made by the acquired entities Net interest margin and yield 2013 2012 $million $million Net interest margin % 2.1 2.2 Net interest yield % 2.1 2.1 Average interest earning assets 521,287 483,491 Average interest bearing liabilities 488,593 456,998 Net interest margin by geography 2013 Other Middle East Americas, Hong Asia & Other UK & Intra-group 1 Kong Singapore Korea Pacific India S Asia Africa Europe tax assets Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Total assets employed 149,327 115,561 55,921 118,337 34,962 47,166 24,892 193,499 65,285 674,380 Of which : 2 Loans to customers 61,173 57,540 29,760 54,843 23,019 26,124 13,122 30,434 296,015 Average interest-earning assets 114,713 86,070 49,219 101,459 30,111 39,193 20,061 131,686 51,225 521,287 Net interest income 1,835 1,072 1,199 2,351 1,116 1,256 1,123 1,204 11,156 Net interest margin % 1.6 1.2 2.4 2.3 3.7 3.2 5.6 0.9 2.1 1 Americas, UK & Europe includes total assets employed of $122,182 million in respect of the UK, the Companys country of domicile 2 The analysis of loans and advances to customers is based on the location of the customer rather than booking location of the loan 2012 Other Middle East Americas, Hong Asia & Other UK & Intra-group 1 Kong Singapore Korea Pacific India S Asia Africa Europe tax assets Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Total assets employed 130,601 107,973 62,903 112,476 36,935 46,219 20,890 179,516 66,305 631,208 Of which : 2 Loans to customers 53,330 51,318 36,165 54,730 23,994 25,200 11,304 28,575 284,616 Average interest-earning assets 107,434 76,689 54,064 98,695 29,796 36,806 18,177 114,768 52,938 483,491 Net interest income 1,716 1,144 1,335 2,232 1,050 1,230 976 1,098 10,781 Net interest margin % 1.6 1.5 2.5 2.3 3.5 3.3 5.4 1.0 2.2 1 Americas, UK & Europe includes total assets employed of $108,775 million in respect of the UK, the Companys country of domicile 2 The analysis of loans and advances to customers is based on the location of the customer rather than booking location of the loan 248 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Segmental Information continued 2013 Other Asia China Malaysia Indonesia Taiwan Thailand Others Pacic $million $million $million $million $million $million $million 1 Operating income 933 700 429 539 394 478 3,473 Operating expenses 753 344 242 353 187 239 2,118 Impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit risk provisions 58 104 103 49 82 19 415 Other impairment 4 1 8 3 profit from associates and joint ventures 146 72 6 224 profit before taxation 272 252 156 138 125 218 1,161 Total assets employed 35,117 19,479 7,868 25,498 9,538 20,837 118,337 2 Loans to customers 15,489 12,178 4,564 13,184 4,126 5,302 54,843 Deposits by banks 1,888 815 152 673 966 2,432 6,926 Customer accounts 20,071 11,923 2,446 19,089 3,691 7,198 64,418 Debt securities in issue 818 274 1,906 66 2,854 5,918 1 Operating income includes OCA of $1 million in China, $4 million in Malaysia, $12 million in Thailand and $1 million in Others 2 The analysis is based on the location of the customers rather than booking location of the loan 2012 Other China Malaysia Indonesia Taiwan Thailand Others Asia Pacic $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Operating income 999 743 525 567 391 447 3,672 Operating expenses 758 338 223 366 192 381 2,258 Impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit risk provisions 38 68 55 4 37 19 221 Other impairment 44 1 112 157 profit from associates and joint ventures 96 66 19 181 profit loss before taxation 255 337 313 196 162 46 1,217 Total assets employed 29,710 18,665 8,761 25,831 9,417 20,092 112,476 1 Loans to customers 14,353 12,110 5,163 13,609 4,691 4,804 54,730 Deposits by banks 1,690 948 192 251 849 1,698 5,628 Customer accounts 20,536 11,753 2,691 20,014 4,390 8,509 67,893 Debt securities in issue 944 1,971 177 2,010 5,102 1 The analysis is based on the location of the customers rather than booking location of the loan 2013 Middle East & UAE Pakistan Bangladesh Others Other S Asia $million $million $million $million $million Operating income 1,222 237 275 475 2,209 Operating expenses 573 157 91 263 1,084 Impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit risk provisions 52 26 20 31 67 profit before taxation 597 54 164 243 1,058 Total assets employed 27,892 4,032 3,823 11,419 47,166 1 Loans to customers 15,734 1,623 2,113 6,654 26,124 Deposits by banks 1,180 162 81 151 1,574 Customer accounts 16,765 2,859 2,196 4,470 26,290 Debt securities in issue 53 53 1 The analysis is based on the location of the customers rather than booking location of the loan 250 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Segmental Information continued 2012 Middle East & UAE Pakistan Bangladesh Others Other S Asia $million $million $million $million $million Operating income 1,230 291 225 488 2,234 Operating expenses 569 174 87 270 1,100 Impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit risk provisions 230 46 7 33 316 Other impairment 4 28 32 profit before taxation 431 67 131 157 786 Total assets employed 26,306 4,284 3,105 12,524 46,219 1 Loans to customers 14,366 1,758 1,802 7,274 25,200 Deposits by banks 1,527 247 10 150 1,934 Customer accounts 15,453 2,797 1,935 4,085 24,270 Debt securities in issue 69 69 1 The analysis is based on the location of the customers rather than booking location of the loan 3.
Interest income 2013 2012 $million $million Balances at central banks 153 159 Treasury bills 881 905 Loans and advances to banks 1,082 1,202 Loans and advances to customers 13,109 13,182 Listed debt securities 709 781 Unlisted debt securities 1,566 1,521 Accrued on impaired assets discount unwind 93 77 17,593 17,827 Of which from financial instruments held at: Amortised cost 14,910 14,361 Available-for-sale 2,132 2,411 Held at fair value through profit or loss 551 1,055 4.
Interest expense 2013 2012 $million $million Deposits by banks 388 532 Customer accounts: Interest bearing current accounts and savings deposits 1,014 1,277 Time deposits 3,370 3,529 Debt securities in issue 1,010 1,139 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds: Wholly repayable within five years 160 124 Other 495 445 6,437 7,046 Of which from financial instruments held at: Amortised cost 5,843 6,331 Held at fair value through profit or loss 594 715 Financial statements and notes 251 5.
Fees and commissions 2013 2012 $million $million Consumer Banking Cards, Personal Loans and Unsecured Lending 412 381 Wealth Management 1,047 875 Deposits 221 225 Mortgages and Auto Finance 117 91 Others 1 79 1,798 1,651 Wholesale Banking Lending and Portfolio Management 80 87 Transaction Banking 1,365 1,439 Financial Markets 356 230 Corporate Finance 502 670 Others 2 2,303 2,428 Net fee and commission income 4,101 4,079 Total fee income arising from financial instruments that are not fair valued through profit or loss is $1,584 million 2012: $1,583 million and arising from trust and other duciary activities of $162 million 2012: $118 million.
Total fee expense arising from financial instruments that are not fair valued through profit or loss is $98 million 2012: $83 million and arising from trust and other duciary activities of $21 million 2012: $21 million.
Net trading income 2 2013 2012 $million $million Gains less losses on instruments held for trading: 1 Foreign currency 1,118 1,498 Trading securities 203 648 Interest rate derivatives 889 428 Credit and other derivatives 633 28 2,437 2,602 Gains less losses from fair value hedging: Gains less losses from fair value hedged items 1,307 10 Gains less losses from fair value hedging instruments 1,322 13 15 3 Gains less losses on instruments designated at fair value: Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 97 229 Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss 172 256 Own credit adjustment OCA 106 Derivatives managed with financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss 283 167 92 140 2,514 2,739 1 Includes foreign currency gains and losses arising on the translation of foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities 2 Amounts reclassied for consistent presentation Gains less losses on instruments held for trading is presented by product type.
Gains or losses on certain trading securities are offset by gains or losses within interest rate derivatives and credit and other derivatives.
252 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 7.
Other operating income 2013 2012 $million $million Other operating income includes: Gains less losses on disposal of financial instruments: Available-for-sale 248 336 Loans and receivables 5 37 Dividend income 104 92 Gains arising on repurchase of subordinated liabilities 90 Rental income from operating lease assets 485 347 Gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment 102 100 Gain arising on sale of business 15 Fair value loss on business classied as held for sale 49 8.
Operating expenses 2013 2012 $million $million Staff costs: Wages and salaries 4,982 4,877 Social security costs 160 148 Other pension costs note 35 336 299 Share-based payment costs note 38 264 374 Other staff costs 828 794 6,570 6,492 Variable compensation is included within wages and salaries.
Further details are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on page 194.
Other staff costs include training and travel costs.
The following tables summarise the number of employees within the Group: 2013 Consumer Wholesale Support Banking Banking Services Total At 31 December 51,248 20,384 15,008 86,640 Average for the year 53,628 20,101 14,528 88,257 2012 Consumer Wholesale Support Banking Banking Services Total At 31 December 55,237 19,752 14,069 89,058 Average for the year 54,650 19,565 13,354 87,569 The company employed nil staff at 31 December 2013 2012: nil and it incurred costs of $4 million 2012: $3 million.
Details of directors pay and benets and interests in shares are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on pages 176 to 212.
Transactions with directors, ofcers and other related parties are disclosed in note 47.
Operating expenses continued Premises and equipment expenses 2013 2012 $million $million Rental of premises 440 432 Other premises and equipment costs 415 406 Rental of computers and equipment 22 25 877 863 General administrative expenses 2013 2012 $million $million 1 UK bank levy 235 174 2 Settlement with the US authorities 667 Other general administrative expenses 1,797 1,866 2,032 2,707 1 The UK bank levy is applied on the chargeable equities and liabilities on the Groups consolidated balance sheet.
Key exclusions from chargeable equities and liabilities include Tier 1 capital, insured or guaranteed retail deposits, repos secured on certain sovereign debt and liabilities subject to netting The rate of the levy for 2013 is 0.13 per cent for chargeable short-term liabilities, with a lower rate of 0.065 per cent generally applied to chargeable equity and long-term liabilities i. e. liabilities with a remaining maturity greater than one year.
The rate for 2014 has been increased to 0.156 per cent for qualifying liabilities, with a long-term rate of 0.078 per cent.
The charge for 2013 has been reduced by a refund of $31 million relating to prior years, $11 million of which related to 2012 2 During 2012, the Group reached settlements with the US authorities regarding US sanctions compliance in the period 2001 to 2007, involving a Consent Order by the New York Department of Financial Services NYDFS, a Cease and Desist Order by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York FRBNY, Deferred Prosecution Agreements with each of the Department of Justice and with the District Attorney of New York and a Settlement Agreement with the Ofce of Foreign Assets Control Auditors remuneration Auditors remuneration in relation to the Group statutory audit amounts to $3.7 million 2012: $3.8 million and is included within other general administration expenses.
The following fees were payable by the Group to their principal auditor, KPMG Audit Plc and its associates together KPMG : 2013 2012 $million $million Audit fees for the Group statutory audit: Fees relating to the current year 3.7 3.8 Fees payable to KPMG for other services provided to the Group: Audit of Standard Chartered PLC subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation Fees relating to the current year 10.5 10.7 Total audit and audit related fees 14.2 14.5 Other services pursuant to legislation 2.6 2.6 Tax services 1.1 0.9 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.3 All other services 0.7 0.4 Total fees payable 18.6 18.7 The following is a description of the type of services included within the categories listed above: Audit fees are in respect of fees payable to KPMG Audit Plc for the statutory audit of the consolidated financial statements of the Group and the separate financial statements of Standard Chartered PLC.
They exclude amounts payable for the audit of Standard Chartered PLCs subsidiaries and amounts payable to KPMG Audit Plcs associates.
These amounts have been included in Fees payable to KPMG for other services provided to the Group Other services pursuant to legislation include services for assurance and other services that are in relation to statutory and regulatory lings, including comfort letters and interim reviews Tax services include tax compliance services and tax advisory services Services related to corporate finance transactions include fees payable to KPMG for transaction related work irrespective of whether the Group is vendor or purchaser, such as acquisition due diligence and long-form reports All other services include other assurance and advisory services such as translation services, ad hoc accounting advice, reporting accountants work on capital raising and review of financial models Expenses incurred during the provision of services and which have been reimbursed by the Group are included within auditors remuneration.
In addition to the above, KPMG estimate they have been paid fees less than $0.1 million 2012: less than $0.1 million by parties other than the Group but where the Group is connected with the contracting party and therefore may be involved in appointing KPMG.
These fees arise from services such as the audit of the Groups pension schemes.
Fees payable to KPMG for non-audit services for Standard Chartered PLC are not separately disclosed because such fees are disclosed on a consolidated basis for the Group.
254 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 9.
Depreciation and amortisation 2013 2012 $million $million Premises 108 126 Equipment: Operating lease assets 206 148 Others 119 132 Intangibles: Software 226 189 Acquired on business combinations 55 65 714 660 10.
Impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit risk provisions The following table reconciles the charge for impairment provisions on loans and advances to the total impairment charge and other credit risk provisions: 2013 2012 $million $million Net charge against profit on loans and advances: Individual impairment charge 1,597 1,230 Portfolio impairment charge release 15 35 1,612 1,195 Provisions related to credit commitments 5 Impairment charge release relating to debt securities classied as loans and receivables 5 4 Total impairment losses and other credit risk provisions 1,617 1,196 An analysis of impairment provisions on loans and advances by geography and business is set out within the Risk review on pages 85, 94 and 103.
Other impairment 2013 2012 $million $million Impairment losses on available-for-sale financial assets: Asset Backed Securities 2 3 Other debt securities 56 16 Equity shares 90 134 144 115 Impairment of investment in associates 70 Impairment of goodwill 1,000 Others 14 36 1,158 221 1 Recovery of impairment on disposal of equity instruments 29 25 1,129 196 1 Relates to private equity instruments sold during the year which had impairment provisions raised against them in prior years Financial statements and notes 255 12.
Taxation Determining the Groups taxation charge for the year involves a degree of estimation and judgment.
Analysis of taxation charge in the year: 2013 2012 $million $million The charge for taxation based upon the profits for the year comprises: Current tax: United Kingdom corporation tax at 23.25 per cent 2012: 24.5 per cent : Current tax on income for the year 139 110 Adjustments in respect of prior periods including double taxation relief 3 10 Double taxation relief 9 9 Foreign tax: Current tax on income for the year 1,594 1,687 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 37 4 1,684 1,794 Deferred tax: Origination reversal of temporary differences 165 64 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 15 8 180 72 Tax on profits on ordinary activities 1,864 1,866 Effective tax rate 30.7% 27.2% The UK corporation tax rate was reduced from 24 per cent to 23 per cent with an effective date of 1 April 2013, giving a blended rate of 23.25percent for the year.
Foreign taxation includes taxation on Hong Kong profits of $242 million 2012: $189 million provided at a rate of 16.5 per cent 2012: 16.5 per cent on the profits assessable in Hong Kong.
Deferred taxation includes origination reversal of temporary differences in Hong Kong profits of $1million 2012: $3 million provided at a rate of 16.5 per cent 2012: 16.5 per cent on the profits assessable in Hong Kong.
The taxation charge for the year is higher than the blended rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom, 23.25 per cent.
The differences are explained below: 2013 2012 $million $million profit on ordinary activities before taxation 6,064 6,851 Tax at 23.25 per cent 2012: 24.5 per cent 1,410 1,679 Effects of: Tax free income 244 279 Lower tax rates on overseas earnings 329 338 Higher tax rates on overseas earnings 480 386 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior periods 25 14 Goodwill impairment 232 Non-deductible expenses 431 437 Other items 91 33 Tax on profits on ordinary activities 1,864 1,866 2013 2012 Current Deferred Current Deferred Tax Tax Total Tax Tax Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Tax recognised in other comprehensive income Available-for-sale assets 6 38 44 40 87 127 Cash ow hedges 11 11 19 19 Retirement benefit obligations 21 21 14 14 6 28 34 40 92 132 Other tax recognised in equity Share-based payments 3 1 2 14 8 22 3 1 2 14 8 22 Total tax credit charge recognised in equity 9 27 36 26 84 110 256 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 13.
Dividends 2013 2012 Ordinary equity shares Cents per share $million Cents per share $million 1 2012 2011 final dividend declared and paid during the year 56.77 1,366 51.25 1,216 1 2013 2012 interim dividend declared and paid during the year 28.80 696 27.23 650 2,062 1,866 1 The amounts are gross of scrip adjustments The amounts in the table above reect the actual dividends per share declared and paid to shareholders in 2013 and 2012.
Dividends on ordinary equity shares are recorded in the period in which they are declared and, in respect of the final dividend, have been approved by the shareholders.
Accordingly, the final ordinary equity share dividends set out above relate to the respective prior years.
The 2012 final dividend of 56.77 cents per ordinary share $1,366 million was paid to eligible shareholders on 14 May 2013 and the 2013 interim dividend of 28.80 cents per ordinary share $696 million was paid to eligible shareholders on 17 October 2013.
2013 recommended final ordinary equity share dividend The 2013 final ordinary equity share dividend recommended by the Board is 57.20 cents per share $1,385 million, which makes the total dividend for 2013 of 86.00 cents per share 2012: 84.00 cents per share.
The final dividend will be paid in either pounds sterling, Hong Kong dollars or US dollars on 14 May 2014 to shareholders on the UK register of members at the close of business in the UK 10:00 pm London time on 14 March 2014, and to shareholders on the Hong Kong branch register of members at the opening of business in Hong Kong 9:00 am Hong Kong time on 14 March 2014.
The 2013 final ordinary equity share dividend will be paid in Indian rupees on 15 May 2014 to Indian Depository Receipt holders on the Indian register at the close of business in India on 14 March 2014.
It is intended that shareholders on the UK register and Hong Kong branch register will be able to elect to receive shares credited as fully paid instead of all or part of the final cash dividend.
Details of the dividend arrangements will be sent to shareholders on or around 28 March 2014.
Indian Depository Receipt holders will receive their dividend in Indian rupees only.
2013 2012 Preference shares $million $million 3 1 Non-cumulative irredeemable preference shares: 7 8 per cent preference shares of 1 each 11 11 1 1 8 4 per cent preference shares of 1 each 13 13 1,3 Non-cumulative redeemable preference shares: 8.125 per cent preference shares of $5 each 75 75 2 7.014 per cent preference shares of $5 each 53 53 2 6.409 per cent preference shares of $5 each 48 48 1 Dividends on these preference shares are treated as interest expense and accrued accordingly 2 Dividends on these preference shares classied as equity are recorded in the period in which they are declared 3 On 27 November 2013 these preference shares were redeemed see note 36 14.
Earnings per ordinary share 2013 2012 Weighted Weighted average average number Per share number Per share 1 1 profit of shares amount profit of shares amount $million 000 cents $million 000 cents Basic earnings per ordinary share 3,989 2,426,238 164.4 4,786 2,396,737 199.7 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: 2 Options 20,671 24,534 Diluted earnings per ordinary share 3,989 2,446,909 163.0 4,786 2,421,271 197.7 There were no ordinary shares issued after the balance sheet date that would have signicantly affected the number of ordinary shares used in the above calculation had they been issued prior to the end of the balance sheet date.
Earnings per ordinary share continued The Group measures earnings per share on a normalised basis.
This differs from earnings dened in IAS 33 Earnings per share.
The table below provides a reconciliation.
3 2013 2012 $million $million Operating income as reported 18,777 18,783 Items normalised: Fair value gains on own credit adjustment 106 Gain on disposal of property 77 91 Gains on repurchase of subordinated liabilities 90 Gain arising on sale of business 15 Fair value loss on business classied as held for sale 49 134 196 Normalised operating income 18,643 18,587 Operating expenses as reported 10,193 10,722 Items normalised: Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations 55 65 Settlements with US authorities 667 55 732 Normalised operating expenses 10,138 9,990 Other impairment as reported 1,129 196 Items normalised: Impairment of associates 70 Impairment of property 9 4 Impairment of goodwill 1,000 1,009 74 Normalised other impairment 120 122 Taxation as reported 1,864 1,866 4 Tax on normalised items 31 2 Normalised taxation 1,833 1,864 1 profit as reported 3,989 4,786 Items normalised as above: Operating income 134 196 Operating expenses 55 732 Other impairment 1,009 74 Taxation 31 2 961 612 Normalised profit 4,950 5,398 Normalised basic earnings per ordinary share cents 204.0 225.2 Normalised diluted earnings per ordinary share cents 202.3 222.9 1 The profit amounts represent the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders, which is profit for the year after non-controlling interest and the declaration of dividends payable to the holders of the non-cumulative redeemable preference shares classied as equity note 13 2 The impact of anti-dilutive options has been excluded from this amount as required by IAS 33 3 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 43 4 No tax is included in respect of the impairment of goodwill as no tax relief is available 258 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Financial instruments Classication Financial assets are classied between four measurement categories: held at fair value through profit or loss comprising trading and designated, available-for-sale, loans and receivables and held-to-maturity: and two measurement categories for financial liabilities: held at fair value through profit or loss comprising trading and designated and amortised cost.
Instruments are classied in the balance sheet in accordance with their legal form, except for instruments that are held for trading purposes and those that the Group has designated to hold at fair value through the profit and loss account.
The latter are combined on the face of the balance sheet and disclosed as financial assets or liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss.
The Groups classication of its principal financial assets and liabilities is summarised in the table below.
Assets at amortised Assets at fair value cost Designated Derivatives at fair value Nonheld for through AvailableLoans and financial Trading hedging profit or loss for-sale receivables assets Total Assets Notes $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Cash and balances at central banks 54,534 54,534 Financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss 1 Loans and advances to banks 2,221 246 2,467 1 Loans and advances to customers 4,411 896 5,307 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 16 5,161 5,161 Debt securities 1612,407 292 12,699 Equity shares 16 2,932 769 3,701 27,132 2,203 29,335 Derivative financial instruments 1759,765 2,037 61,802 1 Loans and advances to banks 18 83,702 83,702 1 Loans and advances to customers 19 290,708 290,708 Investment securities Treasury bills and other eligible bills 21 26,243 26,243 Debt securities 21 70,546 2,828 73,374 Equity shares 21 3,099 3,099 99,888 2,828 102,716 Other assets 22 26,351 7,219 33,570 Total at 31 December 2013 86,897 2,037 2,203 99,888 458,123 7,219 656,367 Cash and balances at central banks 60,537 60,537 Financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss 1 Loans and advances to banks 677 97 774 1 Loans and advances to customers 4,793 185 4,978 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 16 2,955 2,955 Debt securities 1614,882 333 15,215 Equity shares 16 2,140 1,014 3,154 25,447 1,629 27,076 Derivative financial instruments 1747,133 2,362 49,495 1 Loans and advances to banks 18 67,797 67,797 1 Loans and advances to customers 19 279,638 279,638 Investment securities Treasury bills and other eligible bills 21 26,740 26,740 Debt securities 21 65,356 3,851 69,207 Equity shares 21 3,278 3,278 95,374 3,851 99,225 Other assets 22 21,406 7,142 28,548 Total at 31 December 2012 72,580 2,362 1,629 95,374 433,229 7,142 612,316 1 Further analysed in Risk review on pages 99 and 100 Financial statements and notes 259 15.
Financial instruments continued Liabilities at fair value Designated Derivatives at fair value held for through Amortised Non-financial Trading hedging profit or loss cost liabilities Total Liabilities Notes $million $million $million $million $million $million Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss Deposits by banks 1,009 1,009 Customer accounts 9,905 9,905 Debt securities in issue 6,823 6,823 Short positions 5,293 5,293 5,293 17,737 23,030 Derivative financial instruments 1760,322 914 61,236 Deposits by banks 29 43,517 43,517 Customer accounts 30 381,066 381,066 Debt securities in issue 31 64,589 64,589 Other liabilities 32 21,894 5,444 27,338 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 33 20,397 20,397 Total at 31 December 2013 65,615 914 17,737 531,463 5,444 621,173 Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss Deposits by banks 968 968 Customer accounts 12,243 12,243 Debt securities in issue 5,261 5,261 Short positions 4,592 4,592 4,592 18,472 23,064 Derivative financial instruments 17 46,459 733 47,192 Deposits by banks 29 36,427 36,427 Customer accounts 30 372,874 372,874 Debt securities in issue 31 55,979 55,979 Other liabilities 32 19,547 4,738 24,285 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 33 18,588 18,588 Total at 31 December 2012 51,051 733 18,472 503,415 4,738 578,409 Valuation of financial instruments Valuation of financial assets and liabilities held at fair value are subject to a review independent of the Business by Valuation Control.
Valuation Control is primarily responsible for calculating valuation adjustments and performing independent price verication.
Valuation Control performs price testing by comparing external and independent market data e. g. consensus data, traded prices and broker quotes against internal data.
Financial instruments held at fair value in the balance sheet have been classied into a three level valuation hierarchy see below for how each level is dened and the types of instruments included within them that reects the signicance of the observability of the inputs used in fair value measurement.
The Group uses the portfolio exemption in IFRS 13 to measure the fair value of a group of financial assets and financial liabilities.
A Product Valuation Committee PVC exists for each asset class where there is a material valuation risk.
The committees meet monthly and comprise representatives from Group Market Risk, Product Control, Valuation Control and the Business.
The committees are responsible forreviewing the results of the valuation control process.
The committees report to the Financial Markets Valuation Committee which is a sub-committee of the Group Market Risk Committee and the Principal Finance Valuation Committee with oversight from the Principal FinanceInvestment Committee.
Use of third party information Valuation Control performs a semi-annual review of the suitability of the market data used for price testing.
The market data used for price testing may include those sourced from recent trade data involving external counterparties or third parties such as Bloomberg, Reuters, brokers and consensus pricing providers.
The market data used should be representative of the market as much as possible, which can evolve over time as markets and financial instruments develop.
To determine the quality of the market data inputs, factors such as independence, relevance, reliability, availability of multiple data sources and methodology employed by the pricing provider are taken into consideration.
260 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Financial instruments continued For instruments classied as Level 2 or Level 3 fair value adjustments are also made to system valuations to arrive at fair value in accordance with accounting requirements.
The main adjustments are described below: Bid-offer valuation adjustments Where market parameters are marked on a mid-market basis in the revaluation systems, a bid-offer valuation adjustment is required to quantify theexpected cost of neutralising the Businesss positions through dealing away in the market, thereby bringing long positions to bid and short positions to offer.
The methodology to calculate the bid-offer adjustment for a derivative portfolio involves netting between long and short positions and the bucketing of risk by strike and tenor based on the hedging strategy.
Where long positions are marked to bid and short positions marked to offer in the systems, e. g. for cash securities, no bid-offer valuation adjustments are required.
Credit adjustments The Group makes a credit adjustment CA against derivative products.
CA is an estimate of the adjustment to fair value to account for the possibility that the counterparty may default and the Group would not receive the full market value of the transactions.
AIRB models are used to calculate the PD and LGD which, together with the results of the exposure simulation engine, generates a view of expected losses.
The Group assesses actual losses against the provisions incurred against expected losses on a portfolio basis.
Collateral positions are taken into account for the calculation of CA.
In addition to periodic reassessment of the counterparties, credit exposures and external trends which may impact risk management outcomes are closely monitored.
Accounts or portfolios are placed on early alert when they display signs of weakness or financial deterioration.
Some examples of such signs of weakness are decline in the customers position within the industry, a breach of covenants, or non-performance of an obligation, or there are issues relating to ownership or management.
Own credit adjustments With the adoption of IFRS 13, the Group calculates own credit adjustments to reect changes in its own credit standing.
The Groups own credit adjustments are calculated on its derivative liabilities and issued debt designated at fair value, including structured notes.
The Groups own credit adjustments will increase if its credit standing worsens and conversely, decrease if its credit standing improves.
The Groups own credit adjustments will reverse over time as its liabilities mature.
For derivative liabilities, an own credit adjustment is determined by applying the Groups probability of default to the Groups negative expected exposure against the counterparty.
The Groups probability of default and loss expected in the event of default is derived based on internally assessed credit ratings and market standard recovery levels.
The expected exposure is modelled based on simulation methodology and is generated through simulation of underlying risk factors over the life of the deal booked against the particular counterparty.
This simulation methodology incorporates the collateral posted by the Group and the effects of master netting agreements.
The methodology used to determine an own credit adjustment on derivative liabilities is consistent with the methodology used to determine counterparty credit adjustment CA on derivative assets.
For issued debt and structured notes designated at fair value, an own credit adjustment is determined by discounting the contractual cash ows using a yield curve adjusted for market observed secondary senior debt issuance spreads above average interbank rates.
Model valuation adjustments Certain models may have pricing deficiencies or limitations that require a valuation adjustment.
These pricing deficiencies or limitations arise due to the choice, implementation and calibration of the pricing model, among other reasons.
Funding valuation adjustments Funding Valuation Adjustment is an adjustment taken to account for the cost of funding future cash ows of derivatives.
This adjustment applies to derivative transactions which are not collateralised.
In general, derivatives are discounted on the assumption that the bank is able to fund at Libor.
However, the banks funding costs are over and above Libor by a funding spread.
Funding valuation adjustment accounts for the impact of this funding spread in the valuation of derivatives.
Funding Valuation Adjustment is reserved as part of Day One profit and Loss review process and released over the life of the deal.
Day one profit and loss A financial instrument is initially recognised at fair value, which is generally its transaction price.
In cases where the value obtained from the relevant valuation model differs from the transaction price, we record the asset or liability based on our valuation model, but do not recognise thatinitial difference in profit and loss unless the valuation model used is widely accepted and all inputs to the model are observable.
In total, the Group has made $421 million 2012: $349 million of valuation adjustments in determining fair value for financial assets and nancialliabilities.
Valuation adjustments 31.12.13 31.12.12 Bid-offer 69 80 1 Credit 187 133 Model 15 10 Funding 84 73 Others including Day 1 66 53 Total 421 349 1 Includes own debit valuation adjustments on derivatives in 2013 Financial statements and notes 261 15.
Financial instruments continued Valuation hierarchy The valuation hierarchy and the types of instruments classied into each level within that hierarchy are set out below: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair value determined using: Unadjusted quoted prices in an Directly or indirectly observable significant inputs for the asset active market for identical assets inputs other than unadjusted orliability that are not based on and liabilities quoted prices included within observable market data Level 1 that are observable unobservable inputs Types of financial assets: Actively traded government Corporate and other Asset Backed Securities andother securities governmentbonds and loans Private equity investments Listed equities Over-the-counter OTC Highly structured OTC derivatives Listed derivative instruments derivatives with unobservable inputs Investments in publicly traded Asset Backed Securities Illiquid or highly structured corporate mutual funds with listed Private Equity Investments bonds with unobservable inputs marketprices Types of financial liabilities: Listed derivative instruments OTC derivatives Highly structured OTC derivatives Structured deposits with unobservable inputs.
Credit structured debt Illiquid or highly structured securitiesin issue debtsecurities in issue with unobservableinputs Level 1 portfolio Level 1 assets and liabilities are typically exchange traded positions and some government bonds traded in active markets.
These positions are valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets.
Level 2 portfolio Where instruments are not quoted in an active market the Group utilises a number of valuation techniques to determine fair value.
These valuation techniques include discounted cash ow analysis models, option pricing models, simulation models and other standard models commonly used by market participants.
Valuation techniques incorporate assumptions that other market participants would use in their valuations, such as discount rates, default rates, credit spreads and option volatilities.
These inputs need to be directly or indirectly observable in order to be classied as Level 2.
In line with changes in market practice, certain interest rate swaps have been subject to overnight index swap OIS rate discounting since 2011.
The factors to be considered for the selection of such interest rate swaps include the currency in which the swaps are traded, counterparties with credit support annex agreement and the form of the collateral posted by the counterparties.
Level 3 portfolio Level 3 assets and liabilities are valued using techniques similar to those outlined for Level 2, except that if the instrument has one or more inputs that are unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement of the instrument in its entirety, it will be classied as Level 3.
The table on page 266 sets out the significant unobservable inputs used to measure Level 3 instruments.
A sensitivity analysis is presented on page 267 in respect of reasonably possible changes to the valuation assumptions.
The primary products classied as Level 3 are as follows: Loan and advances These include loans in the global syndications underwriting book which are not syndicated yet.
These loans are generally bilateral in nature and their valuation is primarily based on recent trades or proxies, i. e. comparable loans with similar credit grade, sector etc.
Where there are no recent transactions and reliable comparable loans to proxy from, the valuation of these loans is based on unobservable inputs resulting in them being classied as Level 3.
Debt securities Asset Backed Securities Due to the lack of liquidity in the market and the prolonged period of time under which some securities have not traded, obtaining external prices is not a strong enough measure to determine whether an asset has an observable price or not.
Therefore, once external pricing has been veried, an assessment is made whether each security is traded with significant liquidity based on its credit rating and sector.
If a security is of low credit rating and or is traded in a less liquid sector, it will be classied as Level 3.
Where third party pricing is not available, the valuation of the security will be estimated from market standard cash ow models with input parameter assumptions which include prepayment speeds, default rates, discount margins derived from comparable securities with similar vintage, collateral type, and credit ratings.
These securities are also classied as Level 3.
262 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Financial instruments continued Other debt securities These debt securities include certain convertible bonds, corporate bonds, credit and equity structured notes where there are significant valuation inputs which are unobservable in the market, due to illiquid trading or the complexity of the product.
Debt securities are valued using available prices provided through pricing vendors, brokers or trading activities.
Where such liquid external prices are not available, valuation of these cash securities are implied using input parameters such as bond spreads and credit spreads.
These input parameters are determined with reference to the same issuer if available or proxied from comparable issuers or assets.
Equity shares Private Equity Private equity investments are generally valued based on earning multiples Price-to-Earnings P E or Enterprise Value to Earnings Before IncomeTax, Depreciation and Amortisation EV EBITDA ratios of comparable listed companies.
The two primary inputs for the valuation of these investments are the actual or forecast earnings of the investee companies and earning multiples for the comparable listed companies.
In circumstances where an investment doesnt have direct comparables or where the multiples for the comparable companies cannot be sourced from reliable external sources, alternate valuation techniques for example, discounted cash ow models, which use predominantly unobservable inputs or Level 3 inputs, may be applied.
Even though earning multiples for the comparable listed companies can be sourced from third party sources for example, Bloomberg, and those inputs can be deemed Level 2 inputs, all unlisted investments excluding those where observable inputs are available, for example, OTC prices are classied as Level 3 on the grounds that the valuation methods involve judgments ranging from determining comparable companies to discount rates where the discounted cash ow method is applied.
Derivatives These trading derivatives are classied as Level 3 if there are parameters which are unobservable in the market, such as products where the performance is linked to more than one underlying.
Examples are foreign exchange basket options, equity options based on the performance of two or more underlying indices and interest rate products with quanto payouts.
These unobservable correlation parameters could only be implied from the market, through methods such as historical analysis and comparison with historical levels with benchmark data.
Debt securities in issue These debt securities relate to structured notes issued by the Group where there are significant valuation inputs which are unobservable in the market, due to illiquid trading or the complexity of the product.
Where such liquid external prices are not available, valuation of these debt securities are implied using input parameters such as bond spreads and credit spreads.
Financial instruments continued The table below shows the classication of financial instruments held at fair value into the valuation hierarchy set out above as at 31 December 2013.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets $million $million $million $million Financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss Loans and advances to banks 244 2,223 2,467 Loans and advances to customers 4,587 720 5,307 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 4,904 257 5,161 Debt securities 6,596 5,944 159 12,699 Of which: Government bonds 6,396 1,220 7,616 Issued by corporates other than financial institutions 79 3,211 159 3,449 Issued by financial institutions 121 1,513 1,634 Equity shares 2,797 904 3,701 Derivative financial instruments 323 60,881 598 61,802 Of which: Foreign exchange 56 41,942 366 42,364 Interest rate 16,013 53 16,066 Commodity 267 2,104 2,371 Credit 573 13 586 Equity and stock index 249 166 415 Investment securities Treasury bills and other eligible bills 22,701 3,523 19 26,243 Debt securities 24,445 45,493 608 70,546 Of which: Government bonds 14,513 5,451 64 20,028 Issued by corporates other than financial institutions 6,480 7,314 493 14,287 Issued by financial institutions 3,452 32,728 51 36,231 Equity shares 1,635 8 1,456 3,099 At 31 December 2013 63,645 122,916 4,464 191,025 Liabilities Financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss Deposit by banks 1,009 1,009 Customer accounts 9,897 8 9,905 Debt securities in issue 7 6,777 39 6,823 Short positions 4,917 376 5,293 Derivative financial instruments 420 60,375 441 61,236 Of which: Foreign exchange 84 41,738 315 42,137 Interest rate 15,863 24 15,887 Commodity 336 1,500 1,836 Credit 874 874 Equity and stock index 400 102 502 At 31 December 2013 5,344 78,434 488 84,266 There are no significant transfers of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value between Level 1 and Level 2 in 2013.
264 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Financial instruments continued The table below shows the classication of financial instruments held at fair value into the valuation hierarchy set out above as at 31 December 2012.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets $million $million $million $million Financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss Loans and advances to banks 97 677 774 Loans and advances to customers 4,068 910 4,978 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 2,812 143 2,955 Debt securities 8,523 6,516 176 15,215 Of which: Government bonds 8,286 1,482 4 9,772 Issued by corporate other than financial institutions 132 2,683 172 2,987 Issued by financial institutions 105 2,351 2,456 Equity shares 2,029 1,125 3,154 Derivative financial instruments 260 48,749 486 49,495 Of which: Foreign exchange 41 25,125 401 25,567 Interest rate 20,364 9 20,373 Commodity 219 2,151 2,370 Credit 824 6 830 Equity and stock index 285 70 355 Investment securities Treasury bills and other eligible bills 22,781 3,901 58 26,740 Debt securities 20,771 44,189 396 65,356 Of which: Government bonds 11,809 3,419 87 15,315 Issued by corporate other than financial institutions 4,516 7,853 266 12,635 Issued by financial institutions 4,446 32,917 43 37,406 Equity shares 1,307 13 1,958 3,278 At 31 December 2012 58,580 108,256 5,109 171,945 Liabilities Financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss Deposit by banks 968 968 Customer accounts 68 12,175 12,243 Debt securities in issue 5,147 114 5,261 Short positions 4,320 272 4,592 Derivative financial instruments 383 46,246 563 47,192 Of which: Foreign exchange 72 24,584 411 25,067 Interest rate 19,106 33 19,139 Commodity 311 1,173 1,484 Credit 1,120 10 1,130 Equity and stock index 263 109 372 At 31 December 2012 4,771 64,808 677 70,256 There are no significant transfers of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value between Level 1 and Level 2 in 2012.
Financial instruments continued Level 3 movement tables Financial assets Held at fair value through profit or loss Investment securities Loans and Derivative advances to Debt Equity financial Treasury Debt Equity customers securities shares instruments bills securities shares Total Assets $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million At 1 January 2013 910 176 1,125 486 58 396 1,958 5,109 Total losses gains recognised in income statement 89 63 17 37 18 51 61 Total losses recognised in other comprehensive income 23 46 69 Purchases 18 264 86 6 119 493 Sales 30 502 11 36 59 446 1,084 Settlements 103 38 50 3 100 294 Transfers out 44 1 56 180 281 Transfers in 2 14 51 462 529 At 31 December 2013 720 159 904 598 19 608 1,456 4,464 Total losses gains recognised in the incomestatement relating to assets heldat31December 2013 86 3 16 24 3 40 Transfers in during the year primarily relate to investment in structured notes, bonds and corporate debt securities where the valuation parameters became unobservable during the year.
Transfers out during the year primarily relate to certain equity and corporate debt securities where the valuation parameters became observable during the year and were transferred to Level 1 and Level 2 financial assets.
Held at fair value through profit or loss Investment securities Loans and Derivative advances to Debt Equity financial Treasury Debt Equity customers securities shares instruments bills securities shares Total Assets $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million At 1 January 2012 293 566 276 49 745 1,418 3,347 Total gains losses recognised in income statement 9 313 48 48 13 309 Total losses recognised in other comprehensiveincome 56 133 77 Purchases 22 310 336 42 134 525 1,369 Sales 5 64 13 199 71 352 Settlements 27 97 60 17 23 224 Transfers out 96 7 33 261 16 413 Transfers in 937 50 2 2 5 996 At 31 December 2012 910 176 1,125 486 58 396 1,958 5,109 Total losses gains recognised in the incomestatement relating to assets held at 31December 2012 10 195 30 14 141 Transfers in during the year primarily relate to loans held within the Groups global syndicates underwriting book where the valuation parameters became unobservable during the year.
Transfers out during the year primarily relate to certain corporate debt securities where the valuation parameters became observable during the year and were transferred to Level 2 financial assets.
266 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Financial instruments continued Financial liabilities 2013 2012 Debt Derivative Debt Derivative Customer securities financial Customer securities financial accounts in issue instruments Total accounts in issue instruments Total Liabilities $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million At 1 January 114 563 677 172 184 356 Total losses gains recognised in income statement 3 54 57 43 80 37 Issues 9 506 1 516 50 324 374 Settlements 3 490 144 637 28 25 53 Transfers out 99 33 132 37 37 Transfers in 2 5 7 At 31 December 8 39 441 488 114 563 677 Total losses recognised in the incomestatement relating to liabilities heldat31 December 4 37 41 3 44 47 Transfers in during the year primarily relate to certain financial instruments for which parameters became unobservable during the year.
Transfers out during the year primarily relate to certain financial instruments where the valuation parameters became observable during the year and were transferred to Level 2 financial liabilities.
The following tables present the Groups primary Level 3 financial instruments which are held at the fair value.
The table also presents the valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of those financial instruments, the significant unobservable inputs, the range of values for those inputs and the weighted average of those inputs: Value at 31 December 2013 Assets Liabilities Principal valuation significant Weighted 1 2 Instrument $million $million technique unobservable inputs Range average Loans and advances to 720 8 Comparable pricing Yield 8.75% to 22.78% 14% customers Debt securities 410 0 Comparable pricing Yield 5.2% to 36.0% 8.1% Internal pricing model Equity correlation 40% to 97% N A Asset Backed Securities 293 0 Discounted cash ows Yield 1.49% to 4.01% 4.3% Discounted cash ows Discount Margin 16.8% 16.8% Government bonds 83 0 Comparable pricing Yield 2.6% to 8.5% 5% Debt securities in issue 0 39 Discounted cash ows Credit correlation 0.6% to 3.0% 1% Internal pricing model Equity correlation 40% to 97% N A Derivative financial instruments of which: Foreign exchange 366 315 Option pricing model Foreign Exchange Option 0.17% to 7.2% 0.2% Implied Volatility Foreign Exchange -67.0% to 94.0% 78.6% Foreign Exchange Implied Correlation Interest rate 53 24 Discounted cash ows Interest rate curves 0.1% to 13.4% 5.2% Spread option model Interest rate correlation 97.9% to 98.3% 98.1% Credit 13 Discounted cash ows Credit correlation 80% 80% Discounted cash ows Credit spreads 0.6% to 3.0% 1.1% Option pricing model Bond price volatility 25% 25% Equity 166 102 Comparable pricing Yield 40% to 99% N A Internal pricing model Equity correlation Equity shares 2,360 Comparable pricing EV EBITDA multiples 7.3x to 15.2x 8.7x includes private equity P B multiples 2.6x 2.6x investments P E multiples 9.0x to 29.1x 17.4x Liquidity discount 10.0% to 30.0% 13.8% Total 4,464 488 1 The ranges of values shown in the above table represent the highest and lowest levels used in the valuation of the Groups Level 3 financial instruments as at 31 December 2013.
The ranges of values used are reective of the underlying characteristics of these Level 3 financial instruments based on the market conditions at the balance sheet date.
However, these ranges of values may not represent the uncertainty in fair value measurements of the Groups Level 3 financial instruments 2 Weighted average for non-derivative financial instruments has been calculated by weighting inputs by the relative fair value.
Weighted average for derivatives has been provided by weighting inputs by the risk relevant to that variable.
N A has been entered for the cases where weighted average is not a meaningful indicator Financial statements and notes 267 15.
Financial instruments continued The following section describes the significant unobservable inputs identied in the valuation technique table.
Comparable pricing Comparable pricing refers to the method where valuation is done by calculating an implied yield from the price of a similar comparable observable instrument.
The comparable instrument for a private equity investment is a comparable listed company.
The comparable instrument in case of bonds is a similar comparable but observable bond.
This may involve adjusting the yield to derive a value for the unobservable instrument.
EV EBITDA ratio multiples This is the ratio of Enterprise Value EV to Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortisation EBITDA, EV is the aggregate market capitalisation and debt minus the cash and cash equivalents.
An increase in EV EBITDA multiple in isolation will result in a favourable movement in the fair value of the unlisted rm.
P E and P B multiples Price Earnings multiple is the ratio of the Market Capitalisation to the Net Income after tax.
Price to Book multiple is the ratio of the Market Capitalisation to the Book Value.
The multiples are determined from multiples of listed comparables, which are observable.
An increase in P E multiple or P B multiple will result in a favourable movement in the fair value of the unlisted rm.
Yield Yield is the interest rate that is used to discount the future cash ows in a discounted cash ow model.
Correlation Correlation is the measure of how movement in one variable inuences the movement in another variable.
Credit correlation generally refers to the factor that describes the relationship between the probability of individual entities to default on obligations and the joint probability of multiple entities to default on obligations.
Similarly, equity correlation is the correlation between two equity instruments.
An interest rate correlation refers to the correlation between two swap rates.
FX correlation represents the correlation between two different exchange rates.
Liquidity discount A liquidity discount is primarily applied to unlisted rms to reect the fact that these stocks are not actively traded.
An increase in liquidity discount in isolation will result in unfavourable movement in the fair value of the unlisted rm.
Volatility Volatility represents an estimate of how much a particular instrument, parameter or index will change in value over time.
Volatilities are generally implied from the observed option prices.
For certain instruments, volatility may change with strike and maturity prole of the option.
Credit spreads Credit Spreads represent the additional yield that a market participant would demand for taking exposure to the credit risk of an instrument.
Sensitivities in respect of the fair values of Level 3 assets and liabilities Held at fair value through profit or loss Available-for-sale Favourable Unfavourable Favourable Unfavourable Net exposure changes changes Net exposure changes changes $million $million $million $million $million $million Debt securities 159 162 156 608 628 587 Equity shares 904 996 815 1,456 1,602 1,310 Treasury Bills 19 19 19 Loan and advances 712 734 683 Derivative financial instruments 157 269 111 Debt securities in issue 39 39 39 At 31 December 2013 1,893 2,122 1,726 2,083 2,249 1,916 Debt securities 176 180 171 396 401 385 Equity shares 1,125 1,237 1,013 1,958 2,167 1,759 Treasury Bills 58 58 58 Loan and advances 910 924 896 Derivative financial instruments 77 2 154 Debt securities in issue 114 114 114 At 31 December 2012 2,020 2,229 1,812 2,412 2,626 2,202 Where the fair value of financial instruments are measured using valuation techniques that incorporate one or more significant inputs which are based on unobservable market data, we apply a 10 per cent increase or decrease on the values of these unobservable parameter inputs, to generate a range of reasonably possible alternative valuations in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 7.
The percentage shift is determined by statistical analyses performed on a set of reference prices, which included certain equity indices, credit indices and volatility indices, based on the composition of our Level 3 assets.
Favourable and unfavourable changes are determined on the basis of changes in the value of the instrument as a result of varying the levels of the unobservable parameters.
This Level 3 sensitivity analysis assumes a one way market move and does not consider offsets for hedges.
As of 31 December 2013, these reasonably possible alternatives could have increased fair values of financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss by $237 million 2012: $209 million and available-for-sale by $185 million 2012: $214 million or decreased fair values of financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss by $161 million 2012: $208 million and available-for-sale by $185 million 2012: $210 million.
268 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Financial instruments continued Valuation of financial instruments measured at amortised cost on a recurring basis The valuation techniques used to establish the Groups fair values are consistent with those used to calculate the fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value.
The fair values calculated are for disclosure purposes only and do not have any impact on the Groups reported financial performance or position.
The fair values calculated by the Group may be different from the actual amount that will be received paid on the settlement or maturity of the financial instrument.
As certain categories of financial instruments are not traded there is a significant level of management judgment involved in calculating the fair values.
The following sets out the Groups basis of establishing fair values of amortised cost financial instruments and their classication between Levels 1, 2 and 3.
Cash and balances at central banks The fair value of cash and balances at central banks is their carrying amounts.
Loans and advances to banks and customers For loans and advances to banks, the fair value of oating rate placements and overnight deposits is their carrying amounts.
The estimated fair value of xed interest bearing deposits is based on discounted cash ows using the prevailing money market rates for debts with a similar credit risk and remaining maturity.
The Groups loans and advances to customers portfolio is well diversied by geography and industry.
Approximately a quarter of the portfolio reprices within one month, and approximately half reprices within 12 months.
Loans and advances are presented net of provisions for impairment.
The fair value of loans and advances to customers with a residual maturity of less than one year generally approximates the carrying value, subject to any significant movement in credit spreads.
The estimated fair value of loans and advances with a residual maturity of more than one year represents the discounted amount of future cash ows expected to be received, including assumptions relating to prepayment rates and, where appropriate, credit spreads.
Expected cash ows are discounted at current market rates to determine fair value.
The Group has a wide range of individual instruments within its loans and advances portfolio and as a result providing quantication of the key assumptions used to value such instruments is impractical, with no one assumption being material.
Investment securities For investment securities that do not have directly observable market values, the Group utilises a number of valuation techniques to determine fair value.
Where available, securities are valued using inputs proxied from the same or closely related underlying for example, bond spreads from the same or closely related issuer or inputs proxied from a different underlying for example, a similar bond but using spreads for a particular sector and rating.
Certain instruments cannot be proxied as set out above, and in such cases the positions are valued using non-market observable inputs.
This includes those instruments held at amortised cost and predominantly relate to Asset Backed Securities.
The fair value for such instruments is usually proxied from internal assessments of the underlying cash ows.
The Group has a wide range of individual investments within the unlisted debt securities portfolio.
Given the number of instruments involved, providing quantication of the key assumptions used to value such instruments is impractical, with no one assumption being material.
Deposits and borrowings The estimated fair value of deposits with no stated maturity is the amount repayable on demand.
The estimated fair value of xed interest bearing deposits and other borrowings without quoted market prices is based on discounting cash ows using the prevailing market rates for debts with a similar credit risk and remaining maturity.
Following the adoption of IFRS 13 the Group also adjusts the fair value of deposits and borrowings for own credit adjustment using the principles described above.
Debt securities in issue, subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds The aggregate fair values are calculated based on quoted market prices.
For those notes where quoted market prices are not available, a discounted cash ow model is used based on a current market related yield curve appropriate for the remaining term to maturity.
Financial hierarchy for instruments at amortised cost The valuation hierarchy, and the main types of instruments classied into each level within that hierarchy, is set out below: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair value determined using: Unadjusted quoted prices in an Directly or indirectly observable significant inputs for the asset or active market for identical assets inputs other than unadjusted liability that are not based on and liabilities quoted prices included within observable market data Level 1 that are observable unobservable inputs Types of financial assets: Actively traded corporate or Cash and balances at central Loans and advances to customers otherdebt banks Illiquid or highly structured corporate Loans to banks and other bonds nancialinstitutions Illiquid loans and advances Types of financial liabilities: Quoted debt securities in issue Unquoted debt securities in issue Illiquid or highly structured debt Quoted subordinated liabilities Unquoted subordinated liabilities securities in issue Time deposits by customers Deposits by banks Financial statements and notes 269 15.
Financial instruments continued Instruments carried at amortised cost The following table summarises the carrying amounts and incorporates the Groups estimate of fair values of those financial assets and liabilities not presented on the Groups balance sheet at fair value.
The fair values in the table below may be different from the actual amount that will be received paid on the settlement or maturity of the financial instrument.
For certain instruments, the fair value may be determined using assumptions for which no observable prices are available.
Fair value Carrying value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total $million $million $million $million $million Assets 1 Cash and balances at central banks 54,534 54,534 54,534 Loans and advances to banks 83,702 83,408 177 83,585 Loans and advances to customers 290,708 3,518 286,958 290,476 Investment securities 2,828 2,812 73 2,885 1 Other assets 26,351 26,182 168 26,350 At 31 December 2013 458,123 170,454 287,376 457,830 Liabilities Deposits by banks 43,517 12 43,506 43,518 Customer accounts 381,066 682 380,610 381,292 Debt securities in issue 64,589 19,015 45,673 64,688 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 20,397 17,987 2,512 20,499 1 Other liabilities 21,894 201 21,691 9 21,901 At 31 December 2013 531,463 37,897 493,992 9 531,898 1 The carrying amount of these financial instruments is considered to be a reasonable approximation of fair value as they are short-term in nature or reprice to current market rates frequently Carrying value Fair value $million $million Assets 1 Cash and balances at central banks 60,537 60,537 Loans and advances to banks 67,797 67,761 Loans and advances to customers 279,638 278,672 Investment securities 3,851 3,803 1 Other assets 21,406 21,406 At 31 December 2012 433,229 432,179 Liabilities Deposits by banks 36,427 35,961 Customer accounts 372,874 371,702 Debt securities in issue 55,979 56,469 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 18,588 19,773 1 Other liabilities 19,547 19,547 At 31 December 2012 503,415 503,452 1 The carrying amount of these financial instruments is considered to be a reasonable approximation of fair value as they are short-term in nature or reprice to current market rates frequently 270 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Financial instruments continued Reclassication of financial assets In 2008 the Group reclassied certain non-derivative financial assets classied as held for trading into the available-for-sale AFS category as these were no longer considered to be held for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term.
At the time of transfer, the Group identied the rare circumstances permitting such a transfer as the impact of the credit crisis in financial markets, particularly from the beginning of 2008, which signicantly impacted the liquidity in certain markets.
The Group also reclassied certain eligible financial assets from trading and available-for-sale categories to loans and receivables where the Group had the intent and ability to hold the reclassied assets for the foreseeablefuture or until maturity.
There have been no reclassications since 2008.
The following tables provide details of the remaining balances of assets reclassied during 2008: If assets had not been reclassied, fair value gains from 1 January 2013 Carrying Income Effective to 31 December 2013 amount Fair value recognised interest rate Estimated thatwould have been at 31 at 31 in income at date amounts of recognised within December December statement of reclassiexpected 2013 2013 Income AFS reserve in 2013 cation cash ows For assets reclassied: $million $million $million $million $million % $million 1 From trading to AFS 46 46 5 6 8.8 123 From trading to loans and receivables 183 179 20 12 6.2 214 From AFS to loans and receivables 486 520 12 21 5.5 626 715 745 25 12 39 Of which Asset Backed Securities: 1 reclassied to AFS 46 46 7 6 reclassied to loans and receivables 614 647 33 33 1 Post reclassication, the gain is recognised within the available-for-sale reserve If assets had not been reclassied, fair value gains from 1 January 2012 Carrying Income Effective to 31 December 2012 amount Fair value recognised interest rate Estimated thatwould have been at 31 at 31 in income at date amounts of recognised within December December statement of reclassiexpected 2012 2012 Income AFS reserve in 2012 cation cash ows For assets reclassied: $million $million $million $million $million % $million 1 From trading to AFS 85 85 5 10 4.1 195 From trading to loans and receivables 550 532 34 28 5.0 609 From AFS to loans and receivables 673 661 45 26 5.3 826 1,308 1,278 39 45 64 Of which Asset Backed Securities: 1 reclassied to AFS 81 81 5 8 reclassied to loans and receivables 924 896 68 45 43 1 Post reclassication, the gain is recognised within the available-for-sale reserve Financial statements and notes 271 15.
Financial instruments continued Transfers of financial assets Transfers where financial assets are not derecognised Repurchase transactions The Group enters into collateralised repurchase agreements repos and securities borrowing and lending transactions.
These transactions typically entitle the Group and its counterparties to have recourse to assets similar to those provided as collateral in the event of a default.
Securities sold subject to repos continue to be recognised on the balance sheet as the Group retains substantially the associated risk and rewards of these securities.
The counterparty liability is included in deposits by banks or customer accounts, as appropriate.
Assets sold underrepurchase agreements are considered encumbered as the group cannot pledge these to obtain funding.
The table below sets out the financial assets provided by the Group as collateral for repurchase transactions: Fair value through Available Loans and profit and loss for sale receivables Total Collateral pledged against repurchase agreements $million $million $million $million On balance sheet Treasury bills and other eligible bills 391 256 647 Debt securities 1,706 1,163 2,869 Loan and advances to banks and customers 2,714 2,714 Off balance sheet Repledged collateral received 257 1,547 1,804 At 31 December 2013 2,354 1,419 4,261 8,034 Balance sheet liabilities Repurchase agreements Deposits by banks 4,330 Customer accounts 1,732 At 31 December 2013 6,062 Fair value through Available Loans and profit and loss for sale receivables Total Collateral pledged against repurchase agreements $million $million $million $million On balance sheet Treasury bills and other eligible bills 62 424 486 Debt securities 522 590 1,112 Loan and advances to banks and customers 1,780 1,780 Off balance sheet Repledged collateral received 97 1,281 1,378 At 31 December 2012 681 1,014 3,061 4,756 Balance sheet liabilities Repurchase agreements Deposits by banks 1,338 Customer accounts 1,917 At 31 December 2012 3,255 272 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Financial instruments continued Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements The Group also undertakes reverse repurchase reverse repo lending agreements with counterparties, typically financial institutions, in exchange for collateral.
Reverse repo agreements entitle the Group to have recourse to assets similar to those received as collateral in the event of a default.
In addition the Group also obtains collateral on terms that permit the Group to repledge or resell the collateral to others.
The Group does not recognise the securities bought under reverse repos as collateral on its balance sheet as the Group is not substantially entitled to the risks and rewards associated with those assets and instead recognises the lending as loans and advances to banks or customers, as appropriate.
The Groups reverse repos at 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 are set out in the table below: Balance sheet assets Reverse repurchase agreements 2013 2012 $million $million Loans and advances to banks 12,887 7,759 Loans and advances to customers 4,538 2,900 17,425 10,659 Under reverse repurchase and securities borrowing arrangements, the Group obtains securities on terms which permit it to repledge or resell the securities to others.
Amounts on such terms are: 2013 2012 $million $million Securities and collateral received at fair value 17,835 10,949 Securities and collateral which can be repledged or sold at fair value 15,906 10,517 Thereof repledged transferred to others for nancing activities, to satisfy commitments under short sale transactions or liabilities under sale and repurchase agreements at fair value 1,804 1,378 Securitisation transactions The Group has also entered into a number of securitisation transactions where the underlying loans and advances have been transferred to Structured Entities SEs that are fully consolidated by the Group.
As a result, the Group continues to recognise the assets on its balance sheet, together with the associated liability instruments issued by the SEs.
The holders of the liability instruments have recourse only to the assets transferred to the SEs.
Further details of SEs in note 24.
The following table sets out the carrying value and fair value of the assets transferred and the carrying value and fair value of the associated liabilities at 31 December 2013 and 2012 respectively.
2013 2012 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value $million $million $million $million Loan and advances to customers 779 778 1,321 1,319 Securitisation liability reported as debt securities in issue 502 502 1,093 1,093 Net 277 276 228 226 The Group did not undertake any transactions that required the recognition of an asset representing continuing involvement in financial assets.
Financial instruments subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements Impact of offset in the balance sheet In accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation the Group is permitted to offset assets and liabilities and present these net on the Groups balance sheet, only if there is a legally enforceable right to set off and the Group intends to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and liability simultaneously.
Amounts not offset in the balance sheet In practice the Group is able to offset assets and liabilities which do not meet the IAS 32 netting criteria set out above.
Such arrangements include master netting arrangements for derivatives and global master repurchase agreements for repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions.
These agreements generally allow that all outstanding transactions with a particular counterparty can be offset but only in the event of default or other predetermined events.
In addition the Group also receives and pledges readily realisable collateral for derivative transactions to cover net exposure in the event of a default.
Under repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements the Group pledges legally sell and obtain legally purchase respectively, highly liquid assets which can be sold in the event of a default.
The table on the next page sets out the following: Impact of netting on the balance sheet This comprises derivative transactions settled through an enforceable netting agreement where we have the intent and ability to settle net and which are offset on the balance sheet.
Related amounts not offset in the balance sheet.
This comprises a Financial instruments not offset in the balance sheet, but covered by an enforceable netting arrangement.
This comprises master netting arrangements held against derivative financial instruments and excludes the effect of over collateralisation: and b Financial collateral This comprises cash collateral pledged and received for derivative financial instruments and collateral bought and sold for reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements respectively and excludes the effect of over collateralisation.
Financial instruments continued Net amounts Related amount not offset Gross amounts of financial in the balance sheet of recognised Impact of instruments financial offset in the presented in the Financial Financial instruments balance sheet balance sheet instruments collateral Net amount $million $million $million $million $million $million Assets Derivative financial instruments 67,369 5,567 61,802 46,242 5,147 10,413 Reverse repurchase agreements 17,425 17,425 17,425 At 31 December 2013 84,794 5,567 79,227 46,242 22,572 10,413 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 66,803 5,567 61,236 46,242 9,240 5,754 Sale and repurchase liabilities 6,062 6,062 6,062 At 31 December 2013 72,865 5,567 67,298 46,242 15,302 5,754 Net amounts Related amount not offset Gross amounts of financial in the balance sheet of recognised Impact of instruments financial offset in the presented in the Financial Financial instruments balance sheet balance sheet instruments collateral Net amount $million $million $million $million $million $million Assets Derivative financial instruments 55,795 6,300 49,495 35,073 3,245 11,177 Reverse repurchase agreements 10,659 10,659 10,517 142 At 31 December 2012 66,454 6,300 60,154 35,073 13,762 11,319 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 53,492 6,300 47,192 35,073 5,068 7,051 Sale and repurchase liabilities 3,255 3,255 3,255 At 31 December 2012 56,747 6,300 50,447 35,073 8,323 7,051 274 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 16.
Financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss Loans and advances held at fair value through profit or loss The maximum exposure to credit risk for loans designated at fair value through profit or loss was $1,142 million 2012: $282 million.
The net fair value loss on loans and advances to customers designated at fair value through profit or loss was $ 3.3 million 2012:gain$0.2million.
Of this, $nil million 2012: $nil million relates to changes in credit risk.
The cumulative fair value movement relating tochanges in credit risk was $3.4 million 2012: $3.4 million.
The changes in fair value attributable to credit risk has been determined by comparing fair value movements in risk-free bonds with similar maturities to the changes in fair value of loans designated at fair value through profit or loss.
Debt securities, equity shares and treasury bills held at fair value through profit or loss 2013 Debt Equity Treasury securities shares bills Total $million $million $million $million Issued by public bodies: Government securities 7,763 Other public sector securities 76 7,839 Issued by banks: Certicates of deposit 292 Other debt securities 457 749 Issued by corporate entities and other issuers: Other debt securities 4,111 Total debt securities 12,699 Of which: Listed on a recognised UK exchange 144 21 165 Listed elsewhere 8,017 2,741 1,646 12,404 Unlisted 4,538 939 3,515 8,992 12,699 3,701 5,161 21,561 Market value of listed securities 8,161 2,762 1,646 12,569 2012 Debt Equity Treasury securities shares bills Total $million $million $million $million Issued by public bodies: Government securities 10,174 Other public sector securities 131 10,305 Issued by banks: Certicates of deposit 255 Other debt securities 1,723 1,978 Issued by corporate entities and other issuers: Other debt securities 2,932 Total debt securities 15,215 Of which: Listed on a recognised UK exchange 467 23 490 Listed elsewhere 9,086 2,081 949 12,116 Unlisted 5,662 1,050 2,006 8,718 15,215 3,154 2,955 21,324 Market value of listed securities 9,553 2,104 949 12,606 Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss The net fair value loss on liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss was $ 219 million for the year 2012: $256 million.
Of this, $ 106 million 2012: $nil million relates to changes in credit risk.
The cumulative fair value movement relating to changes in credit risk was a loss of$ 95.6 million 2012: $10.4 million.
The change in fair value attributable to credit risk was determined by comparing fair value movements in risk-free debt instruments with similar maturities, to the changes in fair value of liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss.
As at 31 December 2013, the amount the Group is contractually obliged to pay at maturity to the holders of these obligations was $597 million higher 2012: $29 million higher than the carrying amount at fair value.
Derivative financial instruments The tables below analyse the notional principal amounts and the positive and negative fair values of the Groups derivative financial instruments.
Notional principal amounts are the amount of principal underlying the contract at the reporting date.
1 2013 2012 Notional Notional principal principal amounts Assets Liabilities amounts Assets Liabilities Total derivatives $million $million $million $million $million $million Foreign exchange derivative contracts: Forward foreign exchange contracts 1,303,103 17,213 17,490 1,220,806 11,635 12,697 Currency swaps and options 1,086,784 25,151 24,647 853,460 13,932 12,370 Exchange traded futures and options 340 8,772 2,390,227 42,364 42,137 2,083,038 25,567 25,067 Interest rate derivative contracts: Swaps 1,974,451 15,295 15,241 1,463,777 19,107 18,343 Forward rate agreements and options 236,646 771 646 145,020 1,266 796 Exchange traded futures and options 694,212 306,054 2,905,309 16,066 15,887 1,914,851 20,373 19,139 Credit derivative contracts 40,981 586 874 61,186 830 1,130 Equity and stock index options 15,684 415 502 12,223 355 372 Commodity derivative contracts 162,858 2,371 1,836 138,642 2,370 1,484 Total derivatives 5,515,059 61,802 61,236 4,209,940 49,495 47,192 The Group limits exposure to credit losses in the event of default by entering into master netting agreements with certain market counterparties.
As required by IAS 32, exposures are only presented net in these accounts where they are subject to legal right of offset and intended to be settled net in the ordinary course of business.
Details of the amounts available for offset under master netting agreement can be found in the Risk review on page 76.
The Derivatives and Hedging sections of the Risk review on page 114 explain the Groups risk management of derivative contracts and application of hedging.
Derivatives held for hedging Hedge accounting is applied to derivatives and hedged items when the criteria under IAS 39 have been met see note 1 on page 237.
The tables below list the types of derivatives that the Group holds for hedge accounting.
1 2013 2012 Notional Notional principal principal amounts Assets Liabilities amounts Assets Liabilities $million $million $million $million $million $million Derivatives designated as fair value hedges: Interest rate swaps 41,598 756 589 35,896 1,111 524 Forward foreign exchange contracts 199 7 427 9 Currency swaps 22,026 1,190 169 18,396 1,143 117 63,823 1,953 758 54,719 2,254 650 Derivatives designated as cash ow hedges: Interest rate swaps 20,564 22 19 17,033 33 17 Forward foreign exchange contracts 2,150 42 38 2,066 52 1 Currency swaps 7,169 20 15 8,955 23 13 29,883 84 72 28,054 108 31 Derivatives designated as net investment hedges: Forward foreign exchange contracts 981 84 671 52 Total derivatives held for hedging 94,687 2,037 914 83,444 2,362 733 1 The split within fair value hedges and cash ow hedges has been reclassied for prior year Fair value hedges The swaps exchange xed rates for oating rates on funding to match oating rates received on assets, or exchange xed rates on assets to match the oating rates paid on funding.
For qualifying hedges, the fair value changes of the derivative are substantially matched by corresponding fair value changes of the hedged item, both of which are recognised in profit and loss.
In respect of fair value hedges, net losses arising on the hedging instruments during the year were $1,322 million 2012: $13 million compared to net gains arising on the hedged items of $1,307 million 2012: $10 million.
276 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 17.
Derivative financial instruments continued Cash flow hedges The Group uses interest rate swaps to manage the variability in future cash flows on assets and liabilities that have floating rates of interest by exchanging the floating rates for fixed rates.
It also uses foreign exchange contracts, currency swaps and options to manage the variability in future exchange rates on its assets and liabilities and costs in foreign currencies.
Gains and losses arising on the effective portion of the hedges are deferred in equity until the variability on the cash flow affects profit and loss, atwhich time the gains or losses are transferred to profit and loss.
2013 2012 $million $million Losses gains reclassified from reserves to income statement 6 20 Losses gains recognised in operating costs 5 16 Gains losses recognised in net income 1 4 The Group has hedged the following cash flows which are expected to impact the income statement in the following periods: 2013 Less than One to Two to Three to Four to Over one year two years three years four years five years five years Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Forecast receivable cash flows 963 233 1,649 6 2 2,853 Forecast payable cash flows 986 259 1,862 4 1 3,112 23 26 213 2 1 259 2012 Less than One to Two to Three to Four to Over one year two years three years four years five years five years Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Forecast receivable cash flows 3,533 292 174 2 4,001 Forecast payable cash flows 5,229 577 177 3 2 5,988 1,696 285 3 1 2 1,987 Net investment hedges The Group uses a combination of foreign exchange contracts and non derivative financial assets to manage the variability in future exchange rates on its net investments in foreign currencies.
Gains and losses arising on the effective portion of the hedges are deferred in equity until the net investment is disposed of.
During the year, $nil million 2012: $nil million was recognised in the income statement in respect of ineffectiveness arising on net investment hedges.
Loans and advances to banks 2013 2012 $million $million Loans and advances to banks 86,271 68,676 Individual impairment provision 100 103 Portfolio impairment provision 2 2 86,169 68,571 Of which: loans and advances held at fair value through profit or loss note 15 2,467 774 83,702 67,797 Analysis of loans and advances to banks by geography are set out in the Risk review section on page 100.
Loans and advances to customers 2013 2012 $million $million Loans and advances to customers 299,460 287,668 Individual impairment provision 2,749 2,330 Portfolio impairment provision 696 722 296,015 284,616 Of which: loans and advances held at fair value through profit or loss note 15 5,307 4,978 290,708 279,638 The Group has outstanding residential mortgage loans to Korea residents of $12.6 billion 2012: $16.7 billion and Hong Kong residents of $23.3billion 2012: $21.4 billion.
Analysis of loans and advances to customers by geography and business and related impairment provisions are set out within the Risk review onpage 78.
Assets leased to customers Finance leases and instalment credit 2013 2012 $million $million Finance leases 519 576 Instalment credit agreements 1,945 2,248 2,464 2,824 The above assets are included within loans and advances to customers.
The cost of assets acquired during the year for leasing to customers under finance leases and instalment credit agreements amounted to $667 million 2012: $841 million.
2013 2012 $million $million Minimum lease receivables under finance leases falling due: Within one year 194 116 Later than one year and less than five years 199 370 After five years 214 188 607 674 Interest income relating to future periods 88 98 Present value of finance lease receivables 519 576 Of which: Falls due within one year 183 98 Falls due later than one year and less than five years 166 332 Falls due after five years 170 146 Operating lease assets Assets leased to customers under operating leases consist of commercial aircraft and ships which are included within property, plant and equipment in note 27.
At 31 December 2013 these assets had a net book value of $4,897 million 2012: $4,422 million.
2013 2012 $million $million Minimum lease receivables under operating leases falling due: Within one year 528 480 Later than one year and less than five years 1,459 1,201 After five years 1,667 1,523 3,654 3,204 278 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 21.
Investment securities 2013 Debt securities Loans and Equity Treasury Available-for-sale receivables shares bills Total $million $million $million $million $million Issued by public bodies: Government securities 26,111 Other public sector securities 928 27,039 Issued by banks: Certicates of deposit 6,476 Other debt securities 24,897 49 31,373 49 Issued by corporate entities and other issuers: Other debt securities 12,134 2,779 Total debt securities 70,546 2,828 Of which: 1 Listed on a recognised UK exchange 5,563 113 65 5,741 1 Listed elsewhere 26,091 619 1,545 10,480 38,735 Unlisted 38,892 2,096 1,489 15,763 58,240 70,546 2,828 3,099 26,243 102,716 Market value of listed securities 31,654 732 1,610 10,480 44,476 1 These debt securities listed or registered on a recognised UK exchange or elsewhere, are thinly traded or the market for these securities is illiquid 2012 Debt securities Loans and Equity Treasury Available-for-sale receivables shares bills Total $million $million $million $million $million Issued by public bodies: Government securities 23,059 390 Other public sector securities 1,229 24,288 390 Issued by banks: Certicates of deposit 5,974 Other debt securities 24,195 114 30,169 114 Issued by corporate entities and other issuers: Other debt securities 10,899 3,347 Total debt securities 65,356 3,851 Of which: 1 Listed on a recognised UK exchange 6,858 173 70 7,101 1 Listed elsewhere 22,816 878 1,104 13,039 37,837 Unlisted 35,682 2,800 2,104 13,701 54,287 65,356 3,851 3,278 26,740 99,225 Market value of listed securities 29,674 1,006 1,174 13,039 44,893 1 These debt securities listed or registered on a recognised UK exchange or elsewhere, are thinly traded or the market for these securities is illiquid There are no debt securities classied as held-to-maturity.
Equity shares largely comprise investments in corporates.
Investment securities continued The change in the carrying amount of investment securities comprised: 2013 2012 Debt Equity Treasury Debt Equity Treasury securities shares bills Total securities shares bills Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million At 1 January 69,207 3,278 26,740 99,225 60,975 2,543 21,428 84,946 Exchange translation differences 1,834 9 566 2,409 678 14 627 1,319 Additions 93,136 215 49,537 142,888 111,322 783 44,778 156,883 Maturities and disposals 86,954 533 49,676 137,163 104,558 217 40,552 145,327 Impairment, net of recoveries on disposal 59 61 120 24 109 85 Changes in fair value including the effect of fair value hedging 91 209 29 89 727 264 56 1,047 Amortisation of discounts and premiums 31 237 206 39 403 442 At 31 December 73,374 3,099 26,243 102,716 69,207 3,278 26,740 99,225 The analysis of unamortised premiums and unamortised discounts on debt securities and income on equity shares held for investment purposes is provided below: 2013 2012 $million $million Debt securities: Unamortised premiums 605 607 Unamortised discounts 425 443 Income from listed equity shares 67 54 Income from unlisted equity shares 37 38 The following table sets out the movement in the allowance of impairment provisions for investment securities classied as loans and receivables.
2013 2012 $million $million At 1 January 27 33 Exchange translation differences 1 Amounts written off 5 2 Impairment charge release 5 4 At 31 December 26 27 22.
Other assets 2013 2012 $million $million Financial assets held at amortised cost note 15 1 Hong Kong SAR government certicates of indebtedness note 32 4,460 4,191 Cash collateral 9,240 5,068 Acceptances and endorsements 5,501 4,957 Unsettled trades and other financial assets 7,150 7,190 26,351 21,406 Non-financial assets Commodities 3,965 5,574 2 Assets held for sale 1,623 43 Other 1,631 1,525 33,570 28,548 1 The Hong Kong SAR government certicates of indebtedness are subordinated to the claims of other parties in respect of bank notes issued 2 In 2013, assets held for sale include $1,563 million in respect of the Groups realignment of the Consumer Banking business in Korea.
The disposal group consists of Standard Chartered Capital Korea Company Limited and Standard Chartered Savings Bank Korea Company Limited.
The assets recorded here are classied as Level 3 280 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 22.
Other assets continued The assets and liabilities of the businesses held for sale is summarised below: 2013 $million Assets Cash and balances at central banks 11 Loans and advances to banks 102 Loans and advances to customers net of individual impairment $42 million, portfolio impairment provision $25 million 1,421 Investment securities 4 Other assets 1 Prepayments and accrued income 19 Intangible assets 3 Property, plant and equipment 2 Total assets 1,563 Liabilities Customer accounts 319 Other liabilities 6 Accruals and deferred income 9 Deferred tax liabilities 10 Total liabilities 344 The businesses also have total net liabilities due to Group undertakings of $1.1 billion.
These liabilities will be transferred to the acquirer on completion of the sale.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates 2013 2012 Investment in subsidiary undertakings $million $million At 1 January 14,369 14,291 Additions 5,753 78 At 31 December 20,122 14,369 During the year the Company made a deemed contribution and received a deemed dividend of $253 million 2012: $270 million on account of share-based payments and made a deemed contribution of $nil million 2012: $78 million relating to a waiver of an intercompany receivable from Standard Chartered Bank.
At 31 December 2013, the principal subsidiary undertakings, all indirectly held and principally engaged in the business of banking and provision of other financial services, were as follows: Group interest in ordinary share Country and place of incorporation or registration Main areas of operation capital % Standard Chartered Bank, England and Wales United Kingdom, Middle East, South Asia, Asia Pacic, Americas and, through Group companies, Africa 100 Standard Chartered Bank Korea Limited, Korea Korea 100 Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia Berhad, Malaysia Malaysia 100 Standard Chartered Bank Pakistan Limited, Pakistan Pakistan 98.99 Standard Chartered Bank Taiwan Limited, Taiwan Taiwan 100 Standard Chartered Bank Hong Kong Limited, Hong Kong Hong Kong 100 Standard Chartered Bank Singapore Limited, Singapore Singapore 100 Standard Chartered Bank China Limited, China China 100 Standard Chartered Bank Thai Public Company Limited, Thailand Thailand 99.99 Standard Chartered Bank Nigeria Limited, Nigeria Nigeria 100 Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limited, Kenya Kenya 74.3 Standard Chartered Private Equity Limited, Hong Kong Hong Kong 100 A complete list of subsidiary undertakings will be attached to the next Standard Chartered Bank annual return to the Registrar of Companies.
The Group does not have any material non-controlling interests in any of its subsidiaries except the 25.7 per cent non-controlling interests amounting to $98 million 2012: $82 million in Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limited.
This contributes 1.93 per cent of the Groups operating profit and 0.37 per cent of the Groups assets.
While the Groups subsidiaries are subject to local statutory capital and liquidity requirements in relation to foreign exchange remittance, these restrictions arise in the normal course of business and do not signicantly restrict the Groups ability to access or use assets and settle liabilities of the Group.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates continued Joint ventures The Group has a 44.56 per cent 2012: 44.56 per cent interest through a joint venture company which holds a majority investment in PT Bank Permata Tbk Permata, in Indonesia.
Permata provides commercial banking service to retail and wholesale customers.
The Group accounts for its investments in joint ventures using the equity accounting method.
Equity accounting is a method of accounting whereby the investment is initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition change in the Groups share of the investees net assets.
The Groups profit or loss includes its share of the investees profit or loss and the Groups other comprehensive income includes its share of the investees other comprehensive income.
Related party transactions are disclosed in note 47.
Interests in joint ventures 2013 2012 $million $million At 1 January 731 617 Exchange translation difference 152 42 Additions 9 90 Share of profits 73 66 Share of AFS and Other reserves 5 At 31 December 656 731 The following table sets out the summarised financial statements of the joint venture amounts prior to the Groups share of the joint venture: 2013 2012 $million $million Current assets 7,875 8,260 Long-term assets 5,808 5,135 Total assets 13,683 13,395 Current liabilities 7,257 10,693 Long-term liabilities 5,242 1,414 Total liabilities 12,499 12,107 Net assets 1,184 1,288 Income 650 646 Of which: Interest income 1,147 978 Interest expense 655 467 Expenses 434 390 Of which: Depreciation and amortisation 5 18 Impairment 52 Operating profit 216 204 Tax 53 56 profit after tax 163 148 The above amounts of assets and liabilities include the following: Cash and cash equivalents 1,833 2,433 Current financial liabilities excluding trade and other payables and provisions 7,257 10,693 Non-current financial liabilities excluding trade and other payables and provisions 4,050 812 Other comprehensive income for the year 33 13 Total comprehensive income for the year 130 161 Reconciliation of the above summarised financial information to the carrying amount of the investments in joint ventures recognised in the consolidated financial statements: 2013 2012 $million $million Net assets of joint ventures 1,184 1,288 Proportion of the Groups ownership interest in the joint venture 529 574 Notional goodwill 127 157 Carrying amount of the Groups interest in joint ventures 656 731 Long-term assets are primarily loans to customers and current liabilities are primarily customer deposits based on contractual maturities.
282 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates continued Interests in associates 2013 2012 $million $million At 1 January 953 903 Exchange translation difference 10 14 Additions 10 4 Share of profits 153 116 Dividends received 5 14 Share of AFS and Other reserves 10 Impairment 70 At 31 December 1,111 953 The Groups principal associates are: Group interest in ordinary Main areas share capital Associate of operation % China Bohai Bank China 19.9 Asia Commercial Bank Vietnam 15.0 Fleming Family and Partners United Kingdom 20.0 China Bohai Bank and Asia Commercial Bank provide commercial banking service to retail and wholesale customers.
The fair value of our investment in Asia Commercial Bank ACB at 31 December 2013 is $104 million 2012: $111 million.
The Groups investments in ACB and China Bohai Bank are less than 20 per cent but both ACB and China Bohai Bank are considered to be associates because of the significant inuence the Group is able to exercise over the management of these companies and their financial and operating policies.
significant inuence is evidenced largely through the interchange of management personnel and the provision of expertise.
The group applied the equity method of accounting for investments in associates.
The reporting dates of these associates are within three months of the Groups reporting date, the reporting dates of China Bohai Bank and ACB are 30 November 2013 and 30 September 2013, respectively.
The following amounts represent the total profit, assets and liabilities of the Groups associated undertakings: 2013 2012 $million $million profit for the year 777 609 Total assets 96,596 79,637 Total liabilities 91,807 75,770 Net assets 4,789 3,867 Reconciliation of the above summarised financial information to the carrying amount of the interest in associates recognised in the consolidated financial statements: 2013 2012 $million $million Net assets of associates 4,789 3,867 Proportion of the Groups ownership interest in associates 914 740 Notional goodwill 296 296 Impairment provision 135 135 Other adjustments 36 52 Carrying amount of the Groups interest in associates 1,111 953 Financial statements and notes 283 24.
Structured entities The Group uses structured entities SE in the normal course of business across a variety of activities.
An SE typically has restricted activities, together with narrow and well-dened objectives and are predominately thinly capitalised, with a reliance on debt nancing for support.
This note provides further details on those SEs that are consolidated into the Group as well as details on unconsolidated SEs in which the Group has a variable interest.
A variable interest is categorised as a return that is subject to change based on performance and could result in either income or losses to the Group and includes debt and equity interests, commitments, guarantees, derivative financial instruments and certain fees.
Interests in consolidated structured entities In accordance with the Groups accounting policies discussed in note 1, SEs are consolidated into the Groups financial statements where the Group controls the SE.
Control is deemed to exist when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the SEand has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the SE.
The assessment of power is based on the Groups practical ability to direct the relevant activities of the SE unilaterally for the Groups own benefit and is subject to reassessment if and when one or more of the elements of control change.
Most of the Groups consolidated SEs are in respect of the Groups securitised portfolios of residential mortgages see page 272 for details of assets securitised within Consumer Banking.
The Group also consolidates structured entities within the aircraft and ship leasing business of Wholesale Banking.
Securitisation is a transaction in which the Group transfers portfolios of residential mortgages into a SE such that the assets are legally isolated from the creditors of the Group.
The Group also consolidates SEs that it creates to hold long-term assets such as commercial aircraft.
Typically the Group will create an SE to manage a particular asset or portfolio of assets that are operating leases in nature.
In addition to securitisation and aircraft leasing the Group will create structured entities to manage returns and capital.
In determining whether to consolidate an SE to which assets have been transferred the Group takes into account its ability to direct the relevant activities of the SE which is evidenced though a unilateral right to liquidate the SE, investment in a substantial proportion of the securities issued by the SE or where the Group holds specic subordinate securities that embody certain controlling rights.
The following table presents the Groups interests in consolidated SEs.
2013 2012 Total assets Total assets $million $million Securitisation 779 1,321 Aircraft and ship leasing 4,896 4,421 Structured finance 1,326 1,681 Total 7,001 7,423 Interests in unconsolidated structured entities The main types of activities for which the Group utilises unconsolidated SEs cover synthetic credit default swaps for portfolio management purposes, managed investment funds including specialised principal finance funds and structured finance.
For the purposes of portfolio management, the Group has entered into synthetic credit default swaps with note-issuing SEs.
The referenced assets remain on the Groups balance sheet as the credit risk is not transferred to these SEs.
The Group continues to own or hold all of the risks and returns relating to these assets and the credit protection afforded by the synthetic securitisation only serves to protect the Group against losses upon the occurrence of certain credit events, the assets are not fide-recognised from the Group balance sheet.
The Groups exposure arises from a the capitalised start-up costs in respect of the swap vehicles and b interest in the first loss notes and investment in a minimal portion of the mezzanine and senior rated notes issued by the note issuing SEs.
The proceeds of the notes issuance are typically invested in AAA-rated Government securities, which are used to collateralise the SEs swap obligations to the Group, and to repay the principal to investors at maturity.
The SEs reimburse the Group on actual losses incurred, through the realisation of the collateral security.
Correspondingly, the SEs write down the notes issued by an equal amount of the losses incurred, in reverse order of seniority.
All the funding is committed for the life of these vehicles and hence the Group has no indirect exposure in respect of the vehicles liquidity position.
The Groups exposure to Principal Finance Funds represents committed or invested capital in unleveraged investment funds, primarily investing in pan-Asian infrastructure and real estate.
Structured finance comprises interests in transactions that the Group or, more usually, a customer has structured, using one or more SEs, which provide beneficial arrangements for customers.
The Groups exposure primarily represents the provision of funding to these structures as a financial intermediary, for which it receives a lenders return.
The transactions largely relate to the provision of aircraft leasing and ship finance.
The Group also has holdings of Asset Backed Securities which are generally held in a structured entity.
Further details of the Groups holdings of Asset Backed Securities are set out on page 106 of the Risk review.
The Group has reputational risk in respect of certain portfolio management vehicles and investment funds either because the Group is the arranger and lead manager or because the SEs have Standard Chartered branding.
The following table presents the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities recognised in the financial statements relating to variable interests held in unconsolidated SEs, the maximum exposure to loss relating to those interests and the total assets of the SEs.
Maximum exposure to loss is primarily limited to the carrying amount of the Groups on-balance sheet exposure to the SE.
For derivatives, the maximum exposure to loss represents the on-balance sheet valuation and not the notional amount.
For commitments and guarantees the maximum exposure to loss is the notional amount of potential future losses.
284 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 24.
Structured entities continued The following table presents the Groups interests in unconsolidated structured entities by balance sheet caption, together with the total assets of the related entities.
2013 2012 Portfolio managePrincipal Asset Portfolio Principal Asset ment finance Structured Backed management finance Structured Backed vehicles funds finance Securities Total vehicles funds finance Securities Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Balance sheet assets Financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss 119 158 277 160 191 351 Investment securities Equities 146 22 168 156 21 177 Investment securities Debt securities AFS 44 6 5,202 5,252 43 7 2,786 2,836 Investment securities Debt securities Loans and receivables 32 1,196 1,228 13 1,574 1,587 Maximum exposure 44 303 22 6,556 6,928 43 336 21 4,551 4,951 1 Committed capital 375 375 375 375 Total assets of SE 1,280 1,196 262 457,447460,185 1,267 1,671 259 316,042 319,239 1 $145 million 2012: $145 million of the committed capital has been drawn down net of impairment provisions of $33 million 2012: $33 million Interest in structured entities arising in the normal course of business The Group also transacts with SE in the normal course of business.
Where the Group transacts with an SE having regard to the design and risks to which that SE is exposed and that transaction results in the Group holding a variable interest in that SE, for the purpose of this disclosure the Group is deemed to have an exposure to an SE that does not arise as part of a normal customer-supplier relationship.
Included within this category are: Commercial and corporate finance lending to SEs.
These loans were disbursed in the normal course of business and for the vast majority theGroup has a guarantee from the operating parent company.
As a result, the Groups exposure is to the parent company and not the unconsolidated structured entity.
These loans are managed in the same way as all other loans and advances, except that the credit grading applied to these entities is typically CG11 Trading exposure to SEs, where the Group undertakes derivative transactions with unconsolidated structured entities in the normal course of business.
These exposures are managed in the same way as all other derivative exposures and the amounts in the table below reect the on-balance sheet valuation and not the notional amounts The table below sets out the Groups exposure to these unconsolidated structured entities as at 31 December 2013.
Lending Derivatives Total $million $million $million Loans and advances 3,212 3,212 Derivatives 105 105 Total 3,212 105 3,317 Financial statements and notes 285 25. Business Combinations 2013 acquisitions On 2 December 2013 the Group completed the acquisition of the South African custody and trustee business of Absa Bank for a consideration of $36 million recognising goodwill of $16 million.
The net assets acquired primarily comprised customer relationships that have been recognised as intangible assets of the Group.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition is attributable to the synergies expected to arise from their integration with the Group.
The primary reason for this acquisition is to enhance capability.
2012 acquisitions On 4 November 2012, the Group completed the acquisition of 100 per cent of the issued and paid up share capital of Credit Agricole Yatirim Bankasi Turk A. S. CAYBT, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, for a consideration of $63 million, recognising goodwill of $26 million.
The net assets acquired primarily comprised balances held with central banks.
The goodwill acquired largely represents intangibles that are not separately recognised, and primarily relates to the associated banking licence.
The primary reason for these acquisitions is to enhance capability and broaden product offering to customers.
Goodwill and intangible assets 2013 2012 Acquired Acquired Goodwill intangibles Software Total Goodwill intangibles Software Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Cost At 1 January 6,378 658 923 7,959 6,186 643 806 7,635 Exchange translation differences 187 15 15 217 158 14 41 213 Acquisitions 16 35 51 34 3 37 Additions 372 372 294 294 Amounts written off 1,000 175 1,175 2 218 220 Other movements 2 2 At 31 December 5,207 678 1,103 6,988 6,378 658 923 7,959 Provision for amortisation At 1 January 481 333 814 404 340 744 Exchange translation differences 6 2 4 14 15 29 Amortisation for the period 55 226 281 65 189 254 Amounts written off 173 173 2 211 213 At 31 December 530 388 918 481 333 814 Net book value 5,207 148 715 6,070 6,378 177 590 7,145 At 1 January 2012, the net book value was: goodwill, $6,186 million: acquired intangibles, $239 million: and software, $466 million.
At 31 December 2013, accumulated goodwill impairment losses incurred from 1 January 2005 amounted to $1,069 million 2012: $69 million, of which $1 billion recognised in 2013 related to goodwill held against Korea.
2013 2012 $million $million Acquired intangibles comprise: Core deposits 12 18 Customer relationships 115 125 Brand names 19 31 Licences 2 3 Net book value 148 177 Acquired intangibles primarily comprise those recognised as part of the acquisitions of Korea First Bank subsequently renamed Standard Chartered Bank Korea Limited, Union Bank now amalgamated into Standard Chartered Bank Pakistan Limited, Hsinchu now amalgamated into Standard Chartered Bank Taiwan Limited, Pembroke, Harrison Lovegrove, American Express Bank and the custody business in Africa.
Theacquired intangibles are amortised over periods from four years to a maximum of 16 years in the case of the customer relationships intangible acquired in Korea First Bank KFB.
286 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 26.
Goodwill and intangible assets continued Testing of goodwill for impairment An annual assessment is made as to whether the current carrying value of goodwill is impaired.
For the purposes of impairment testing goodwill is allocated at the date of acquisition to a cash generating unit CGU, and the table below sets out the goodwill allocated to each CGU.
Goodwill is considered to be impaired if the carrying amount of the relevant CGU exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amounts for all the CGUs were measured based on value-in-use.
The key assumptions used in determining the recoverable amounts are set out below and are solely estimates for the purposes of assessing impairment of acquired goodwill.
2013 2012 Long-term Long-term forecast forecast Pre-tax GDP Pre-tax GDP discount growth discount growth Goodwill rate rates Goodwill rate rates Cash Generating unit $million per cent per cent $million per cent per cent Korean business 794 16.5 3.9 1,850 16.4 3.9 Pakistan business 249 25.9 4.4 270 27.6 3.5 Taiwan business 1,313 18.6 4.4 1,348 16.3 4.8 Credit card and personal loan Asia, India & MESA 896 15.8 1.4 896 15.8 1.8 India business 324 17.7 6.5 364 16.8 6.8 MESA business 368 19.1 4.1 368 20.4 4.0 Thailand business 315 16.4 4.7 331 16.1 5.0 Financial Institutions and Private Banking business 396 14.5 1.4 396 15.2 1.8 Corporate advisory business 75 15.8 1.4 77 15.9 1.8 Consumer banking business in Singapore 221 11.2 3.8 228 12.6 3.8 Other 256 12.4-15.8 1.4-7.4 250 15.6-17.0 1.8-7.5 5,207 6,378 Methodology for determining value-in-use The calculation of value-in-use for each CGU is based on cash ow projections over a 20-year period, including a terminal value which is determined based on long-term earnings multiple consistent with available market data.
These cash ows are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate which reects current market rates appropriate to the CGU as set out in the table above.
The cash ow projections are based on budgets and forecasts approved by management covering one year, except for Taiwan, Korea, Thailandand Pakistan CGUs, where management forecasts cover a total of five years to 2018.
Management forecasts project growth rates greater than long-term GDP rates but which are in line with past performance as adjusted to reect the current economic climate.
For the period after management approved forecasts, the cash ows are extrapolated forward using steady long-term forecast GDP growth rates appropriate tothe CGU.
Outcome of impairment assessment The Group performed an impairment assessment on the level of goodwill assigned to the Korea CGU as at 30 June 2013 prior to its annual assessment date as a result of its consideration of reduced expectation for future cash ows and uctuations in the discount rate.
Based on this analysis, the carrying amount was assessed as exceeding the recoverable value by $1 billion which was recognised as an impairment charge.
At 31 December 2013, the results of our annual assessment review indicated that there is no other goodwill impairment to be recognised for 2013.
Other than for the Korea CGU, the Group also believes that a reasonable possible change in any of the key assumptions on which the recoverable amounts have been based would not cause the carrying amounts to exceed their recoverable amount.
It continues to be possible that certain scenarios to which Korea is more sensitive than other CGUs could be constructed where a combination of a material change in the discount rate coupled with a reduction in current business plan forecasts or the GDP growth rate, would potentially result in the carrying amount of the goodwill exceeding the recoverable amount in the future.
Property, plant and equipment 2013 2012 Operating Operating Premises Equipment lease assets Total Premises Equipment lease assets Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Cost or valuation At 1 January 2,544 818 4,809 8,171 2,525 800 3,021 6,346 Exchange translation differences 44 29 73 56 9 65 Additions 77 128 874 1,079 72 90 1,788 1,950 Acquisitions 2 2 Disposals and fully depreciated assets written off 126 117 218 461 111 81 192 Transfers to assets held for sale 60 3 63 At 31 December 2,391 797 5,465 8,653 2,544 818 4,809 8,171 Depreciation Accumulated at 1 January 565 599 387 1,551 516 540 239 1,295 Exchange translation differences 6 21 27 9 6 15 Charge for the year 108 119 206 433 126 132 148 406 Attributable to assets sold, transferred or writtenoff 67 115 25 207 86 79 165 Accumulated at 31 December 600 582 568 1,750 565 599 387 1,551 Net book amount at 31 December 1,791 215 4,897 6,903 1,979 219 4,422 6,620 At 1 January 2012, the net book value was: premises, $2,009 million: equipment, $260 million: and operating lease assets, $2,782 million.
Assets held under finance leases have a net book value of $151 million 2012: $173 million with minimum lease payments of $9 million 2012:$7million before and after future finance charges.
Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the year: At 1 January Exchange & other Charge credit Charge credit At 31 December 2013 adjustments Acquisitions to profit to equity 2013 $million $million $million $million $million $million Deferred taxation comprises: Accelerated tax depreciation 128 5 91 214 Impairment provisions on loans and advances 154 11 87 230 Tax losses carried forward 476 11 43 422 Available-for-sale assets 86 1 5 38 42 Premises revaluation Cash ow hedges 17 1 3 11 2 Retirement benefit obligations 105 2 10 21 72 Share-based payments 80 8 1 71 Other temporary differences 69 15 7 123 184 Net deferred tax assets 515 2 7 180 27 353 At 1 January Exchange & other Charge credit Charge credit At 31 December 2012 adjustments Acquisitions to profit to equity 2012 $million $million $million $million $million $million Deferred taxation comprises: Accelerated tax depreciation 47 16 159 128 Impairment provisions on loans and advances 18 20 192 154 Tax losses carried forward 431 15 30 476 Available-for-sale assets 4 2 1 87 86 Premises revaluation 1 1 Cash ow hedges 2 19 17 Retirement benefit obligations 102 1 12 14 105 Share-based payments 88 1 17 8 80 Other temporary differences 31 4 104 69 Net deferred tax assets 687 16 72 84 515 288 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 28.
Deferred tax continued Deferred taxation comprises assets and liabilities as follows: 2013 2012 Total Asset Liability Total Asset Liability $million $million $million $million $million $million Deferred taxation comprises: Accelerated tax depreciation 214 7 221 128 15 143 Impairment provisions on loans and advances 230 219 11 154 322 168 Tax losses carried forward 422 311 111 476 403 73 Available-for-sale assets 42 27 15 86 51 35 Premises revaluation Cash ow hedges 2 2 17 14 3 Retirement benefit obligations 72 70 2 105 100 5 Share-based payments 71 63 8 80 67 13 Other temporary differences 184 112 72 69 166 97 353 529 176 515 676 161 Where permitted deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset on an entity basis and not by component of deferred taxation.
The Finance Act 2013 contained a reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax to 21 per cent with effect from 1 April 2014 and to 20 per cent with effect from 1 April 2015.
This change has reduced the UK deferred tax asset by $28 million.
At 31 December 2013, the Group has net deferred tax assets of $353 million 2012: $515 million.
The recoverability of the Groups deferred tax assets is based on managements judgment of the availability of future taxable profits against which the deferred tax assets will be utilised.
Of the Groups total deferred tax asset, $422 million relates to tax losses carried forward.
These tax losses have arisen in individual legal entities and will be offset as future taxable profits arise in those entities.
$173 million of the deferred tax asset relating to losses has arisen in the UK, where there is no expiry date for unused tax losses.
There is a dened profit stream against which the losses are forecast to be fully utilised, over a period of 13 years.
$110 million of the deferred tax asset relating to losses has arisen in Ireland, where there is no expiry date for unused tax losses.
These losses relate to aircraft leasing and are expected to be fully utilised over the useful economical life of the assets being up to 25 years.
$44 million of the deferred tax asset relating to losses has arisen in Taiwan.
Management forecasts show that the losses are expected to be fully utilised over a period of five years.
The tax losses expire after 10 years.
$35 million of the deferred tax asset relating to losses has arisen in Australia, where there is no expiry date for unused tax losses.
Management forecasts show that the losses are expected to be fully utilised over a period of 12 years.
The remaining deferred tax asset relating to losses has arisen in other jurisdictions and is expected to be recovered in less than five years.
2013 2012 $million $million No account has been taken of the following potential deferred taxation assets liabilities : Withholding tax on unremitted earnings from overseas subsidiaries 328 316 Foreign exchange movements on investments in branches 85 36 Tax losses 106 112 Held over gains on incorporation of overseas branches 506 496 Financial statements and notes 289 29.
Deposits by banks 2013 2012 $million $million Deposits by banks 43,517 36,427 Deposits by banks included within: Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss note 15 1,009 968 44,526 37,395 30.
Customer accounts 2013 2012 $million $million Customer accounts 381,066 372,874 Customer accounts included within: Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss note 15 9,905 12,243 390,971 385,117 Included in customer accounts were deposits of $4,956 million 2012: $2,862 million held as collateral for irrevocable commitments under import letters of credit.
Debt securities in issue 2013 2012 Certicates of Certicates of deposit of Other debt deposit of Other debt $100,000 securities $100,000 securities or more in issue Total or more in issue Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Debt securities in issue 21,082 43,507 64,589 16,982 38,997 55,979 Debt securities in issue included within: Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss note 15 141 6,682 6,823 165 5,096 5,261 21,223 50,189 71,412 17,147 44,093 61,240 32.
Other liabilities 2013 2012 $million $million Financial liabilities held at amortised cost note 15 Notes in circulation 4,460 4,191 1 Acceptances and endorsements 5,501 4,900 Cash collateral 5,147 3,245 Unsettled trades and other financial liabilities 6,786 7,211 21,894 19,547 Non-financial liabilities Cash-settled share-based payments 73 84 2 Liabilities held for sale 344 Other liabilities 5,027 4,654 27,338 24,285 1 Hong Kong currency notes in circulation of $4,460 million 2012: $4,191 million that are secured by the government of Hong Kong SAR certicates of indebtedness of the same amount included in other assets note 22 2 Liabilities held for sale of $344 million is in respect of the Groups realignment of the Consumer Banking business in Korea, the disposal group consists of Standard Chartered Capital Korea Company Limited and Standard Chartered Savings Bank Korea Company Limited.
The businesses held for sale also have total net liabilities due to Group undertakings of $1.1 billion which will be transferred to the acquirers on completion of the sale.
See note 22 for the balance sheet of the businesses held for sale.
Liabilities disclosed here are classied as level 2 290 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 33.
Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 2013 2012 $million $million Subordinated loan capital issued by subsidiary undertakings 700 million 7.75 per cent subordinated notes 2018 1,291 1,353 675 million 5.375 per cent undated Step up subordinated notes callable and oating rate from 2020 727 781 600 million 8.103 per cent Step up callable Perpetual preferred securities callable and oating rate from 2016 1,128 1,177 300 million 6.0 per cent subordinated notes 2018 callable and oating rate from 2013 488 200 million 7.75 per cent undated Step up subordinated notes callable and oating rate from 2022 410 446 1.1 billion 5.875 per cent subordinated notes 2017 1,704 1,706 675 million oating rate subordinated notes 2018 callable 2013 890 $1.5 billion 9.5 per cent Step up perpetual preferred securities callable 2014 1,542 1,582 $1 billion 6.4 per cent subordinated notes 2017 1,134 1,188 $750 million 5.875 per cent subordinated notes 2020 789 847 $700 million 8.0 per cent subordinated notes 2031 592 675 $100 million oating rate subordinated notes 2018 callable 2013 100 BWP 127.26 million 8.2 per cent subordinated notes 2022 15 16 BWP 75 million oating rate subordinated notes 2017 callable 2013 10 BWP 70 million oating rate subordinated notes 2021 callable 2016 8 9 BWP 50 million oating rate notes 2022 callable 2017 6 6 JPY 10 billion 3.35 per cent subordinated notes 2023 callable 2018 101 128 KRW 300 billion 7.05 per cent subordinated debt 2019 callable 2014 284 280 KRW 270 billion 4.67 per cent subordinated debt 2021 callable 2016 256 252 KRW 260 billion 6.08 per cent subordinated debt 2018 callable 2013 244 KRW 90 billion 6.05 per cent subordinated debt 2018 95 95 PKR 2.5 billion oating rate notes 2022 callable 2017 24 26 PKR 1 billion oating rate notes 2013 3 SGD 750 million 4.15 per cent subordinated notes 2021 callable and oating rate from 2016 570 607 SGD 450 million 5.25 per cent subordinated notes 2023 callable and oating rate from 2018 380 408 TWD 10 billion 2.9 per cent subordinated debt 2019 callable 2014 337 348 TZS 10 billion 11 per cent subordinated notes 2021 callable and oating rate from 2015 6 6 UGX 40 billion 13 per cent subordinated notes 2020 callable 2015 16 16 11,415 13,687 Issued by Company: Primary capital oating rate notes $400 million 44 44 $300 million Series 2 80 80 $400 million Series 3 64 64 $200 million Series 4 50 50 150 million 50 50 $2 billion 3.95 per cent subordinated debt 2023 1,823 $1.25 billion 4.0 per cent subordinated notes 2022 callable 2017 1,238 1,255 $1 billion 5.7 per cent subordinated notes 2022 939 1,022 $1 billion 5.2 per cent subordinated debt 2024 995 $750 million 5.3 per cent subordinated debt 2043 611 1.25 billion 4 per cent subordinated debt 2025 callable 2020 1,722 750 million 3.625 per cent subordinated notes 2022 1,000 1,000 1,2 Other borrowings issued by company 366 1,336 8,982 4,901 Total for Group 20,397 18,588 1 In the balance sheet of the Company the amount recognised is $339 million 2012: $1,241 million with the difference being the effect of hedge accounting achieved on a Group basis 2 Other borrowings comprise irredeemable sterling preference shares note 36 and US dollar non-cumulative redeemable preference shares Financial statements and notes 291 33.
Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds continued 2013 2012 USD GBP Euro Others USD GBP Euro Others $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Fixed rate subordinated debt 9,663 3,922 4,426 2,060 7,512 4,638 2,706 2,400 Floating rate subordinated debt 238 50 38 338 50 890 54 Total 9,901 3,972 4,426 2,098 7,850 4,688 3,596 2,454 All subordinated liabilities are unsecured, unguaranteed and subordinated to the claims of other creditors including without limitation, customer deposits and deposits by banks.
The Group has the right to settle these debt instruments in certain circumstances as set out in the contractual agreements.
Issuances On 11 January 2013, the Company issued $2 billion 3.95 per cent xed interest rate notes due January 2023.
On 11 January 2013, the Company issued $500 million 5.3 per cent xed interest rate notes due January 2043.
On 17 January 2013, the Company issued a further $250 million 5.3 per cent xed interest rate notes due January 2043 which were consolidated and form a single series with the existing $500 million 5.3 per cent xed interest rate notes due January 2043 issued on 11 January 2013.
On 26 September 2013, the Company issued $1 billion 5.2 per cent xed interest rate notes due January 2024.
On 21 October 2013, the Company issued 1.25 billion 4 per cent xed interest rate notes due October 2025.
Redemptions On 15 January 2013, Standard Chartered Bank Botswana Limited exercised its right to redeem its BWP75 million oating rate subordinated notes in full on the first optional call date.
On 25 January 2013, Standard Chartered Bank exercised the right to redeem its 300 million 6.0 per cent xed rate subordinated notes in full on the first optional call date.
On 29 January 2013, Standard Chartered Pakistan Limited redeemed its PKR1 billion oating rate note on maturity.
On 28 March 2013, Standard Chartered Bank exercised its right to redeem its $100 million oating rate subordinated notes in full on the first optional call date.
On 28 March 2013, Standard Chartered Bank exercised the right to redeem its 675 million oating rate subordinated notes in full on the first optional call date.
On 25 April 2013, Standard Chartered Bank Korea Limited exercised its right to redeem its KRW260 billion 6.08 per cent subordinated debt in full on the first optional call date.
On 27 November 2013, the Company exercised its right to redeem its $925 million 8.125 per cent non-cumulative redeemable Dollar Preference Shares on the first optional call date.
The following subordinated notes issued by PT Bank Permata Tbk Permata are no longer disclosed as part of the Group consolidated accounts due to IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements which requires all joint ventures to be equity accounted: $22 million 9.75 per cent xed to oating interest rate note 2021 callable and oating rate from 2016 IDR 700 billion 8.9 per cent subordinated notes 2019 IDR 1,750 billion 11.0 per cent subordinated notes 2018 IDR 1,800 billion 9.4 per cent subordinated notes 2019 34.
Provisions for liabilities and charges Provision for credit commitments Other provisions Total $million $million $million At 1 January 2013 30 185 215 Exchange translation differences 2 2 Charge against profit 20 20 Provisions utilised 6 120 126 At 31 December 2013 24 83 107 Provision for credit commitment comprises those undrawn contractually committed facilities where there is doubt as to the borrowers ability to meet their repayment obligations.
Other provisions include provisions for regulatory settlements, legal claims and restructuring.
292 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 35.
Retirement benefit obligations Retirement benefit obligations comprise: 2013 2012 $million $million Dened benefit schemes obligation 341 470 Dened contribution schemes obligation 24 21 Net obligation 365 491 2013 2012 $million $million At 1 January 491 507 Exchange translation differences 1 15 Charge against profit 336 299 Change in other comprehensive income 79 76 Net payments 382 406 At 31 December 365 491 Retirement benefit charge comprises: 2013 2012 $million $million Dened benefit schemes 119 96 Dened contribution schemes 217 203 Charge against profit note 8 336 299 The Group operates over 50 dened benefit plans across its geographies, many of which are closed to new entrants who now join dened contribution arrangements.
The aim of all these plans is to give employees the opportunity to save appropriately for retirement in a way that is consistent with local regulations, taxation requirements and market conditions.
The dened benefit plans expose the Group to currency risk, interest rate risk, investment risk and actuarial risks such as longevity risk.
The UK Fund is the only retirement arrangement of material size, and a description of it, along with the other categories of scheme, is given below.
The disclosures required under IAS 19 have been calculated by qualied independent actuaries based on the most recent full actuarial valuations updated, where necessary, to 31 December 2013.
Pension costs for the purpose of these accounts were assessed using the projected unit method and the assumptions set out below which were based on market data at the date of calculation.
The principal assumptions relate to the rate of ination and the discount rate.
The discount rate is equal to the yield on high-quality corporate bonds which have a term to maturity approximating that of the related liability.
UK Fund The Groups principal retirement benefit scheme is the Standard Chartered Pension Fund the Fund and provides pensions based on 1 60th of final salary per year of service, normally payable from age 60.
The Fund is set up under a Trust that is legally separate from the Group its formal sponsor and as required by UK legislation one-third of the Trustee Directors are nominated by members: the remainder are appointed by the Bank.
The Trustee Directors have a duciary duty to Fund members, and are responsible for governing the Fund in accordance with its Trust Deed and Rules.
The financial position of the Fund is assessed by an independent qualied actuary.
The most recent actuarial assessment of the Fund for the purpose of funding was performed as at 31 December 2011 by A Zegleman, Fellow of the Faculty of Actuaries, of Towers Watson, using the projected unit method and assumptions different from those below.
To repair the past service deficit revealed as at 31 December 2011, a cash payment of GBP35 million was made into the Fund on 27 March 2013.
In addition, an escrow account of GBP110 million exists to provide security for future contributions should they be needed.
Following the 31 December 2011 valuation, regular contributions to the Fund were set at 36 per cent of pensionable salary for all members.
With effect from 1 July 1998 the Fund was closed to new entrants and new employees have subsequently been offered membership of a dened contribution scheme.
Due to the closure of the Fund to new entrants, it is expected that the current service cost will increase, as a percentage of pensionable salary, as the members approach retirement.
Over 80 per cent of the Funds liabilities now relate to pensioners or ex-employees who have left the Group but have not yet retired.
As at 31 December 2013, the weighted-average duration of the Fund was 15 years 2012: 15 years.
Overseas schemes The principal overseas dened benefit arrangements operated by the Group are in Germany, Hong Kong, India, Jersey, Korea, Taiwan and theUS.
Employer contributions to dened benefit plans over 2014 are expected to be around $50 million.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The financial assumptions used at 31 December 2013 were: Funded dened benefit schemes 1 2 UK Fund Overseas schemes 2013 2012 2013 2012 % % % % 3 Price ination 2.40 2.30 1.50 5.00 1.50 4.50 Salary increases 2.40 2.30 2.40 6.50 2.10 6.00 Pension increases 2.40 2.30 1.75 3.40 1.75 3.00 Discount rate 4.50 4.50 1.70 9.40 0.70 8.40 1 The assumptions for life expectancy for the UK Fund are that a male member currently aged 60 will live for 28 years 2012: 28 years and a female member 29 years 2012:29years and a male member currently aged 40 will live for 30 years 2012: 30 years and a female member 31 years 2012: 31 years after their 60th birthday 2 The range of assumptions shown is for the main funded dened benefit overseas schemes in Germany, Hong Kong, India, Jersey, Korea, Taiwan and the US.
These comprise over 85 per cent of the total liabilities of funded overseas schemes 3 UK pension increases are now based on CPI rather than RPI so the measure of ination quoted has been updated accordingly These assumptions are likely to change in the future and thus will affect the value placed on the liabilities.
For example, changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other assumptions constant, would have affected the dened benefit obligation by the amounts shown below: If the discount rate for the UK Fund increased by 25 basis points the liability would reduce by approximately $65 million If the rate of ination and pension increases for the UK Fund increased by 25 basis points the liability would increase by approximately $65million If the rate salaries increase compared to ination for the UK Fund increased by 25 basis points the liability would increase by approximately $7million If longevity expectations increased by one year for the UK Fund the liability would increase by approximately $50 million Although this analysis does not take account of the full distribution of cash ows expected under the Fund, it does provide an approximation of the sensitivity to the main assumptions.
While changes in other assumptions would also have an impact, the effect would not be as significant.
Unfunded schemes 1 2 Post-retirement medical Other 2013 2012 2013 2012 % % % % Price ination 2.50 2.50 2.50 5.00 3.00 5.00 Salary increases 4.00 4.00 2.40 6.50 2.30 6.00 Pension increases N A N A 0.00 2.40 0.00 2.30 Discount rate 5.10 4.20 4.50 9.40 4.20 8.40 Post-retirement medical rate 8% in 2013 9% in 2012 N A N A reducing by reducing by 1% per annum 1% per annum to 5% in 2016 to 5% in 2016 1 The post-retirement medical plan is in the US 2 The range of assumptions shown is for the main Unfunded schemes in India, Indonesia, the UAE and the UK The assets and liabilities of the schemes, attributable to dened benefit members were: 2013 2012 Funded dened benefit Funded dened benefit schemes Unfunded schemes schemes Unfunded schemes PostPostOverseas retirement Overseas retirement UK Fund schemes medical Other UK Fund schemes medical Other At 31 December $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Equities 423 304 N A N A 382 254 N A N A Government Bonds 696 155 N A N A 698 151 N A N A Corporate Bonds 285 68 N A N A 374 78 N A N A Property 78 11 N A N A 58 8 N A N A Others 350 215 N A N A 190 173 N A N A Total market value of assets 1,832 753 N A N A 1,702 664 N A N A 1 Present value of the schemes liabilities 1,855 875 26 170 1,795 854 28 159 Net pension liability 23 122 26 170 93 190 28 159 1 Includes $1 million 2012: $nil impact as a result of unrecognised surplus in Kenya 294 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 35.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The pension cost for dened benefit schemes was: Funded dened benefit schemes Unfunded schemes Overseas Post-retirement UK Fund schemes medical Other Total Year ending 31 December 2013 $million $million $million $million $million Current service cost 7 71 1 21 100 Past service cost and curtailments 1 3 4 Gain on settlements Interest income on pension scheme assets 74 19 93 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 76 23 1 8 108 Total charge to profit before deduction of tax 9 76 2 32 119 1 Return on plan assets excluding interest income 38 31 69 Loss gain on liabilities 24 19 3 12 10 Total gain recognised directly in statement of comprehensive income before tax 14 50 3 12 79 Deferred taxation 3 18 21 Total gain after tax 11 32 3 12 58 1 The actual return on the UK fund assets was $112 million and on overseas scheme assets was $50 million Funded dened benefit schemes Unfunded schemes Overseas Post-retirement UK Fund schemes medical Other Total Year ending 31 December 2012 $million $million $million $million $million Current service cost 8 74 1 17 100 Past service cost and curtailments 3 3 Gain on settlements 6 6 Interest income on pension scheme assets 80 32 112 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 77 26 1 7 111 Total charge to profit before deduction of tax 5 62 2 27 96 1 Return on plan assets excluding interest income 53 22 75 Loss on liabilities 115 28 8 151 Total loss recognised directly in statement of comprehensive income before tax 62 6 8 76 Deferred taxation 14 14 Total loss after tax 48 6 8 62 1 The actual return on the UK fund assets was $133 million and on overseas scheme assets was $54 million Financial statements and notes 295 35.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Movement in the dened benefit pension schemes and post-retirement medical deficit during the year comprise: Funded dened benefit schemes Unfunded schemes Overseas Post-retirement UK Fund schemes medical Other Total Year ending 31 December 2013 $million $million $million $million $million deficit at 1 January 2013 93 190 28 159 470 Contributions 63 94 1 10 168 Current service cost 7 71 1 21 100 Past service cost and curtailments 1 3 4 Settlement costs Net interest on the net dened benefit asset liability 2 4 1 8 15 Actuarial gains 14 50 3 12 79 Exchange rate adjustment 2 1 1 deficit at 31 December 2013 23 122 26 170 341 Movement in the dened benefit pension schemes and post-retirement medical deficit during the year comprise: Funded dened benefit schemes Unfunded schemes Overseas Post-retirement UK Fund schemes medical Other Total Year ending 31 December 2012 $million $million $million $million $million deficit at 1 January 2012 74 249 28 136 487 Contributions 52 139 2 10 203 Current service cost 8 74 1 17 100 Past service cost and curtailments 3 3 Settlement costs 6 6 Net interest on the net dened benefit asset liability 3 6 1 7 1 Actuarial loss 62 6 8 76 Exchange rate adjustment 4 12 2 14 deficit at 31 December 2012 93 190 28 159 470 Movement in pension schemes and post-retirement medical gross assets and obligations during the year comprise: Assets Obligations Total Year ending 31 December 2013 $million $million $million deficit at 1 January 2013 2,366 2,836 470 1 Contributions 170 2 168 2 Current service cost 100 100 Past service cost and curtailments 4 4 Settlement costs 5 5 Interest cost on pension scheme liabilities 108 108 Interest income on pension scheme assets 93 93 2 Benets paid out 146 146 3 Actuarial gains 69 10 79 Exchange rate adjustment 38 37 1 deficit at 31 December 2013 2,585 2,926 341 1 Includes employee contributions of $2 million 2 Includes administrative expenses of $1 million paid out of scheme assets 3 The $10 million gain on liabilities can be broken down as a $25 million gain from financial assumption changes, $1 million loss from demographic assumption changes and $14million loss from experience Assets Obligations Total Year ending 31 December 2012 $million $million $million deficit at 1 January 2012 2,118 2,605 487 Contributions 204 1 203 Current service cost 100 100 Past service cost and curtailments 3 3 Settlement costs 72 78 6 Interest cost on pension scheme liabilities 111 111 Interest income on pension scheme assets 112 112 Benets paid out 151 151 Actuarial gain loss 75 151 76 Exchange rate adjustment 80 94 14 deficit at 31 December 2012 2,366 2,836 470 296 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 36.
Share capital, reserves and own shares Share capital In 2010 the Company amended its Articles of Association to remove the provision for authorised share capital following an amendment to corporate law in the UK through the Companies Act 2006.
The available profits of the company are distributed to the holders of the issued preference shares in priority to payments made to holders of the ordinary shares and in priority to, or pari passu with, any payments to the holders of any other class of shares in issue.
On a winding up, the assets of the Company are applied to the holders of the preference shares in priority to any payment to the ordinary shareholders and in priority to, or pari passu with, the holders of any other shares in issue, for an amount equal to any dividends accrued and or payable and the nominal value of the shares together with any premium as determined by the Board.
The redeemable preference shares are redeemable at the paid up amount which includes premium at the option of the Company in accordance with the terms of the shares.
The holders of the preference shares are not entitled to attend or vote at any general meeting except where any relevant dividend due is not paid in full or where a resolution is proposed varying the rights of the preference shares.
The nominal value of each ordinary share is 50 cents.
At 31 December 2013 and 2012, the company has 15,000 $5 non-cumulative redeemable preference shares in issue, which were issued at their nominal value with no premium and are classied in equity.
At 31 December 2012, the company had 462,500 $5 non-cumulative redeemable preference shares in issue classied within subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds and included a premium of $923 million.
On 27 November 2013, in accordance with its Articles of Association the Company redeemed all these shares at the issued value.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Group and Company Number of Ordinary Preference ordinary shares share capital share capital Total millions $million $million $million At 1 January 2012 2,384 1,192 1,192 Capitalised on scrip dividend 25 13 13 Shares issued 4 2 2 At 31 December 2012 2,413 1,207 1,207 Capitalised on scrip dividend 4 2 2 Shares issued 10 5 5 At 31 December 2013 2,427 1,214 1,214 2013 On 13 May 2013, the Company issued 1,727,682 new ordinary shares instead of the 2012 final dividend and on 17 October 2013 the Company issued 2,081,685 new ordinary shares instead of the 2013 interim dividend.
During the year 10,542,375 new ordinary shares were issued under employee share plans at prices between nil and 1,463 pence.
2012 On 14 May 2012, the Company issued 6,961,782 new ordinary shares instead of the 2011 final dividend and on 11 October 2012 the Company issued 18,454,741 new ordinary shares instead of the 2012 interim dividend.
During the year 3,559,652 new ordinary shares were issued under employee share plans at prices between nil and 1,463 pence.
Reserves Transaction costs relating to share issues deducted from reserves account total $149 million 2012: $149 million.
The cumulative amount of goodwill on the acquisition of subsidiary and associated undertakings written off against Group reserves since 1973 is $27 million 2012: $27 million.
The capital reserve represents the exchange difference on redenomination of share capital and share premium from sterling to US dollars in 2001.
The capital redemption reserve represents the nominal value of preference shares redeemed.
The merger reserve represents the premium arising on shares issued using a cash box nancing structure, which required the Company to create a merger reserve under section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
Shares were issued using this structure in 2005 and 2006 to assist in the funding of certain acquisitions, in 2008 and 2010 for the shares issued by way of a rights issue, and for the shares issued in 2009 in the placing.
The funding raised by the 2008 and 2010 rights issues and 2009 share issue was retained within the Company.
The available-for-sale reserve represents the unrealised fair value gains and losses in respect of financial assets classied as available-for-sale, net of taxation.
Gains and losses are deferred in this reserve and are reclassied to the income statement when the underlying asset is sold, matures or becomes impaired.
The cash ow hedge reserve represents the effective portion of the gains and losses on derivatives that meet the criteria for these types of hedges.
Gains and losses are deferred in this reserve and are reclassied to the income statement when the underlying hedged item affects profit and loss or when a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur.
The translation reserve represents the cumulative foreign exchange gains and losses on translation of the net investment of the Group in foreign operations.
Since 1 January 2004, gains and losses are deferred to this reserve and are reclassied to the income statement when the underlying foreign operation is disposed.
Gains and losses arising from derivatives used as hedges of net investments are netted against the foreign exchange gains and losses on translation of the net investment of the foreign operations.
Retained earnings represents profits and other comprehensive income earned by the Group and Company in the current and prior periods, together with the after tax increase relating to equity-settled share options, less dividend distributions and own shares held treasury shares.
Share capital, reserves and own shares continued A substantial part of the Groups reserves are held in overseas subsidiary undertakings and branches, principally to support local operations or to comply with local regulations.
The maintenance of local regulatory capital ratios could potentially restrict the amount of reserves which can be remitted.
In addition, if these overseas reserves were to be remitted, further unprovided taxation liabilities might arise.
Own shares Bedell Cristin Trustees Limited is trustee of both the 1995 Employees Share Ownership Plan Trust the 1995 trust, which is an employee benefit trust used in conjunction with some of the Groups employee share schemes, and of the Standard Chartered 2004 Employee benefit Trust the 2004 trust which is an employee benefit trust used in conjunction with the Groups Deferred Bonus Plan and the delivery of shares to satisfy any discretionary variable compensation arrangements such as the annual performance plan.
The trustee has agreed to satisfy a number of awards made under these arrangements through the relevant employee benefit trust.
As part of these arrangements Group companies fund the trust, from time to time, to enable the trustee to acquire shares to satisfy these awards.
All shares have been acquired through the London Stock Exchange.
Except as disclosed, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has bought, sold or redeemed any securities of the Company listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited during the year.
Details of the shares purchased and held by the trusts are set out below.
1995 Trust 2004 Trust Total Number of shares 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 1 Shares purchased 4,855,145 15,984,057 790,829 977,761 5,645,974 16,961,818 Market price of shares purchased $ million 133 386 21 25 154 411 2 Shares held at the end of the year 5,575,821 6,809,269 141,160 211,415 5,716,981 7,020,684 Maximum number of shares held during year 7,278,439 18,321,546 1 The acquisition of shares in the year to 31 December 2012 was overstated by 4,472 shares in the 2012 accounts and has therefore been restated 2 The closing balance at 31 December 2012 was understated by 894 shares in the 2012 accounts and has therefore been restated 37.
Non-controlling interests $300m 7.267% Other Hybrid Tier 1 non-controlling securities interests Total $million $million $million At 1 January 2012 320 341 661 Expenses in equity attributable to non-controlling interests 14 14 Other profits attributable to non-controlling interests 22 76 98 Comprehensive income for the year 22 62 84 Distributions 22 38 60 Other increases 8 8 At 31 December 2012 320 373 693 Expenses in equity attributable to non-controlling interests 31 31 Other profits attributable to non-controlling interests 22 88 110 Comprehensive income for the year 22 57 79 Distributions 22 55 77 Other decreases 100 100 At 31 December 2013 320 275 595 The $300 million 7.267% Hybrid Tier 1 securities were issued by Standard Chartered Bank Korea Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, and are classied in equity.
The Group has no interest in these securities.
Share-based payments The Group operates a number of share-based arrangements for its directors and employees.
Details of the share-based payment charge are set out below: 2013 2012 Cash Equity Total Cash Equity Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Deferred share awards 12 219 231 32 292 324 Other share awards 9 24 33 54550 Total share-based payments 21 243 264 37 337 374 298 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 38.
Share-based payments continued 2011 Standard Chartered Share Plan the 2011 Plan Approved by shareholders in May 2011 this is the Groups main share plan, applicable to all employees with the exibility to provide a variety of award types.
The 2011 Plan is designed to deliver performance shares, deferred awards and restricted shares, giving us sufficient exibility to meet the challenges of the changing regulatory and competitive environment.
Discretionary share awards are a key part of both executive directors and senior managements variable compensation and their signicance as a proportion of potential total remuneration is one of the strongest indicators of our commitment to pay for sustainable performance ensuring there is an appropriate return for the risk taken and that the measure is aligned with the Groups risk appetite.
Further details regarding the 2011 Plan are included in the directors remuneration report.
The remaining life of the plan is seven years.
Performance shares Performance shares are subject to a combination of three performance measures: total shareholder return TSR : earnings per share EPS : and return on risk-weighted assets RoRWA.
The weighting between the three elements is split equally, one-third of the award depending on each measure, assessed independently.
Performance share awards for executive directors are currently subject to an annual limit of 400 per cent of base salary in face value terms and delivered as nil cost options.
Valuation The fair value of the TSR component is derived by discounting one-third of the award by the loss of expected dividends over the vesting period together with the probability of meeting the TSR condition, which is calculated by the area under the TSR vesting schedule curve.
The EPS fair value is derived by discounting one-third of the award respectively by the loss of expected dividends over the vesting period.
The same approach is applied to calculate the RoRWA fair value for one-third of the award.
In respect of the EPS and RoRWA components, the number of shares expected to vest is adjusted for actual performance when calculating the share-based payment charge for the year.
The same fair value applies to all employees including directors.
2013 2012 Grant date 18 September 19 June 11 March 21 December 19 September 20 June 13 March Share price at grant date 15.14 14.62 18.22 15.84 14.82 14.17 15.65 Vesting period years 333 3333 Expected dividend yield % 4.6 4.1 4.1 3.7 3.2 3.5 3.5 Fair value EPS 4.43 4.32 5.38 4.73 4.50 4.26 4.71 Fair value RoRWA 4.43 4.32 5.38 4.73 4.50 4.26 4.71 Fair value TSR 1.80 1.76 2.19 1.86 1.77 1.68 1.85 The expected dividend yield assumption is based on a historical average over a period commensurate with this period until vesting, or over one year if the period until vesting is less than one year.
Deferred share awards restricted shares Deferred awards are used to deliver the deferred portion of annual performance awards, in line with both market practice and the requirements of the PRA.
These awards are subject to a three-year deferral period, vesting equally one-third on each of the first, second and third anniversaries.
These awards are not subject to an annual limit to ensure that regulatory requirements relating to deferral levels can be met and in line with market practice of our competitors.
Deferred awards will not be subject to any further performance criteria, although the Groups claw back policy will apply.
Restricted share awards which are made outside of the annual performance process, as additional incentive or retention mechanisms, are provided as restricted shares under the 2011 Plan.
These awards typically vest in equal instalments on the second and the third anniversaries of the award date.
In line with similar plans operated by our competitors, restricted share awards are not subject to an annual limit and do not have any performance conditions.
Valuation The fair value, for all employees including directors, is based 100 per cent of the face value of the share at date of grant as the share price will reect expectations of all future dividends.
Deferred share awards 2013 2012 Grant date 19 June 11 March 20 June 13 March Share price at grant date 14.62 18.22 14.17 15.65 Vesting period years 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 Expected dividend yield % n a n a n a n a Fair value 14.62 18.22 14.17 15.65 Deferred awards accrue dividend equivalent payments during the vesting period.
Share-based payments continued Other restricted share awards 2013 2012 Grant date 17 December 18 September 19 June 11 March 21 December 19 September 20 June 13 March Share price at grant date 13.04 15.14 14.62 18.22 15.84 14.82 14.17 15.65 Vesting period years 2 3 2 3 2 3 1 2 3 4 2 3 1 2 3 4 2 3 1 2 3 4 2 3 2 3 2 3 Expected dividend yield % 4.9 4.6 4.6 4.6 3.7 3.0 3.8 3.8 Fair value 11.59 13.54 13.05 16.27 14.46 13.76 12.91 14.26 The expected dividend yield assumption is based on a historical average over a period commensurate with this average period until vesting, or over one year if the average period until vesting is less than one year.
2000 Executive Share Option Scheme 2000 ESOS now closed to new grants The Group previously operated the 2000 ESOS for executive directors and selected senior managers and there remain outstanding vested awards.
Executive share options to purchase ordinary shares in Standard Chartered PLC were exercisable after the third, but before the 10th, anniversary of the date of grant subject to EPS performance criteria being satisfied.
The exercise price per share is the share price at the date of grant.
2001 Performance Share Plan 2001 PSP now closed to new grants The Groups previous plan for delivering performance shares was the 2001 PSP and there remain outstanding vested awards.
Under the 2001 PSP half the award is dependent upon TSR performance and the balance is subject to a target of dened EPS growth.
Both measures use the same three-year period and are assessed independently.
1997 2006 Restricted Share Scheme 2006 RSS 2007 Supplementary Restricted Share Scheme 2007 SRSS The Groups previous plans for delivering restricted shares were the 2006 RSS and 2007 SRSS both now replaced by the 2011 Plan.
There remainunvested and vested awards outstanding under these plans.
Awards were generally in the form of nil cost options and do not have any performance conditions.
Generally deferred restricted share awards vest equally over three years and for non-deferred awards half vests two years after the date of grant and the balance after three years.
No further awards will be granted under the 2006 RSS and 2007 SRSS.
2004 Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Under the DBP, shares are conditionally awarded as part of certain executive directors annual performance award.
Awards under the DBP are made in very limited circumstances to a small number of employees.
Further details are contained in the Directors remuneration report.
The remaining life of the plan is less than one year and no further awards will be granted under the DBP.
All Employee Sharesave Plan 2004 International Sharesave, 2004 UK Sharesave and 2013 Sharesave Under the Sharesave plans, employees have the choice of opening a savings contract.
Within a period of six months after the third or fifth anniversary, as appropriate, employees may purchase ordinary shares in the Company at a discount of up to 20 per cent on the share price at thedate of invitation.
There are no performance conditions attached to options granted under the Sharesave plans.
In some countries in which the Group operates, it is not possible to operate Sharesave plans, typically due to securities law and regulatory restrictions.
In these countries the Group offers an equivalent cash-based plan to its employees.
The remaining life of the 2004 Sharesave plans is less than one year and no further awards will be granted under these plans.
A new sharesave scheme, the Standard Chartered 2013 Sharesave Plan was approved by shareholders at the AGM in May 2013 and new sharesave invitations were made under this plan in September 2013.
The remaining life of the 2013 Sharesave Plan is nine years.
Valuation Options under the Sharesave plans are valued using a binomial option-pricing model.
The same fair value is applied to all employees including directors.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: All Employee Sharesave Plan Sharesave 2013 2012 Grant date 9 October 11 October 1 October Share price at grant date 14.36 13.95 14.35 Exercise price 11.78 11.40 11.40 Vesting period years 3 33 Expected volatility % 26.8 29.8 30.0 Expected option life years 3.33 3.33 3.33 Risk free rate % 0.8 0.4 0.4 Expected dividend yield % 4.3 3.1 3.1 Fair value 3.30 3.28 3.53 The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three years, or three years prior to grant.
The expected life is the average expected period to exercise.
The risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK Government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
The expected dividend yield is based on historical dividend for three years prior to grant.
300 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 38.
The dividend is normally delivered in the form of shares and is released on vesting Financial statements and notes 301 39.
Cash ow statement Adjustment for non-cash items and other adjustments included within income statement Group Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 $million $million $million $million Amortisation of discounts and premiums of investment securities 206 442 Interest expense on subordinated liabilities 655 569 298 186 Interest expense on senior debt securities in issue 492 418 346 Other non-cash items including own credit adjustment 173 120 36 143 Pension costs for dened benefit schemes 119 96 Share-based payment costs 264 374 UK bank levy 55 10 Impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit risk provisions 1,617 1,196 Dividend income from subsidiaries 2,096 1,433 Other impairment 1,129 196 Loss on business classied as held for sale 49 profit from associates and joint ventures 226 116 Total 4,121 2,421 1,488 1,390 Change in operating assets Group Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 $million $million $million $million Increase decrease in derivative financial instruments 13,065 18,684 50 401 Decrease increase in debt securities, treasury bills and equity shares held at fair value through profit or loss 5,220 3,077 Net increase in loans and advances to banks and customers 29,918 20,925 Increase in pre-payments and accrued income 8 39 Increase in other assets 6,373 3,052 317 Total 44,144 8,409 50 718 Change in operating liabilities Group Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 $million $million $million $million Increase decrease in derivative financial instruments 14,804 18,968 346 43 Net increase in deposits from banks, customer accounts, debt securities in issue, Hong Kong notes in circulation and short positions 28,996 37,826 1,330 4,286 Decrease increase in accruals and deferred income 39 113 112 123 Increase decrease in other liabilities 1,387 1 515 738 Total 45,148 18,970 1,273 5,104 40.
Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash ow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash, on demand and overnight balances with central banks unless restricted and balances with less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition, including: treasury bills and other eligible bills, loans and advances to banks, and short-term government securities.
The following balances with less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition have been identied by the Group as being cash and cash equivalents.
Restricted balances comprise minimum balances required to be held at central banks.
Group Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 $million $million $million $million Cash and balances at central banks 54,534 60,537 Less restricted balances 9,946 9,336 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 6,561 3,101 Loans and advances to banks 29,509 23,909 Trading securities 3,498 1,307 Amounts owed by and due to subsidiary undertakings 18,558 16,879 Total 84,156 79,518 18,558 16,879 302 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 41.
Capital commitments Capital expenditure approved by the directors but not provided for in these accounts amounted to: 2013 2012 $million $million Contracted 11 51 42.
Operating lease commitments 2013 2012 Premises Equipment Premises Equipment $million $million $million $million Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring: Within one year 327 3 336 4 Later than one year and less than five years 769 3 755 5 After five years 731 806 1,827 6 1,897 9 During the year $377 million 2012: $443 million was recognised as an expense in the income statement in respect of operating leases.
The Group leases various premises and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The total future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases at 31December 2013 is $5 million 2012: $6 million.
Restatement of prior year The Group has introduced the following changes in its financial statements and has re-presented prior year balances on a similar basis to enhance the comparability of information presented.
Restatements impacting 31 December 2012 Application of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements as discussed in Note 1 The Groups investment in Permata has been presented using the equity method of accounting, applied on a retrospective basis.
There is no impact on the profit for the period or Shareholders equity, however, profit before taxation is lower as a result of profits from joint ventures being reported on a net of tax basis see pages 303 and 306.
Allocation of associates and joint ventures to Consumer Banking and Wholesale Banking The Groups profits and interests in associates are allocated to Consumer Banking and Wholesale Banking.
The associates balances were previously reported as corporate items not allocated.
Joint venture balances were previously allocated to Consumer Banking and Wholesale Banking on a line by line basis and has been presented within the line following adoption of IFRS 11 see page 306.
Goodwill and intangible assets previously allocated to Consumer Banking and Wholesale Banking is now reported in Corporate items not allocated.
Reclassication of liabilities due to operational improvements The Group has reclassied certain liabilities measured at fair value, these liabilities were previously reported as trading but now classied as fair value through profit and loss see page 306.
The impact of the above restatements on the primary statements is set out on pages 303 to 306.
Restatement of prior year continued Income statement As reported Permata Restated 2012 restatement 2012 Notes $million $million $million Interest income 3 18,258 431 17,827 Interest expense 4 7,248 202 7,046 Net interest income 11,010 229 10,781 Fees and commission income 5 4,618 43 4,575 Fees and commission expense 5 497 1 496 Net trading income 6 2,748 9 2,739 Other operating income 7 1,192 8 1,184 Non-interest income 8,061 59 8,002 Operating income 19,071 288 18,783 Staff costs 8 6,584 92 6,492 Premises costs 8 886 23 863 General administrative expenses 8 2,758 51 2,707 Depreciation and amortisation 9 668 8 660 Operating expenses 10,896 174 10,722 Operating profit before impairment losses and taxation 8,175 114 8,061 Impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit risk provisions 10 1,221 25 1,196 Other impairment 11 194 2 196 profit from associates and joint ventures 116 66 182 profit before taxation 6,876 25 6,851 Taxation 12 1,891 25 1,866 profit for the year 4,985 4,985 Statement of other comprehensive income As reported Permata Restated 2012 restatement 2012 Notes $million $million $million profit for the year 4,985 4,985 Other comprehensive income: Items that will not be reclassied to Income statement: Actuarial losses on retirement benefit obligations 35 76 76 Items that may be reclassied subsequently to Income statement: Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations: Net gains taken to equity 575 7 568 Net losses on net investment hedges 73 73 Share of other comprehensive income from associates and joint ventures 2 6 4 Available-for-sale investments: Net valuation gains taken to equity 1,056 2 1,054 Reclassied to income statement 339 3 336 Cash ow hedges: Net gains taken to equity 133 133 Reclassied to income statement 20 20 Taxation relating to components of other comprehensive income 12 132 132 Other comprehensive income for the period, net of taxation 1,122 1,122 Total comprehensive income for the year 6,107 6,107 304 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 43.
Restatement of prior year continued Balance sheet As reported Permata Restated 2012 restatement 2012 Notes $million $million $million Assets Cash and balances at central banks 15, 40 61,043 506 60,537 Financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss 15, 16 27,084 8 27,076 Derivative financial instruments 15, 17 49,496 1 49,495 Loans and advances to banks 15, 18 68,381 584 67,797 Loans and advances to customers 15, 19 283,885 4,247 279,638 Investment securities 15, 21 99,413 188 99,225 Other assets 15, 22 28,818 270 28,548 Current tax assets 215 215 Prepayments and accrued income 2,581 29 2,552 Interests in associates and joint ventures 23 953 731 1,684 Goodwill and intangible assets 26 7,312 167 7,145 Property, plant and equipment 27 6,646 26 6,620 Deferred tax assets 28 691 15 676 Total assets 636,518 5,310 631,208 Liabilities Deposits by banks 15, 29 36,477 50 36,427 Customer accounts 15, 30 377,639 4,765 372,874 Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss 15, 16 23,064 23,064 Derivative financial instruments 15, 17 47,192 47,192 Debt securities in issue 15, 31 55,979 55,979 Other liabilities 15, 32 24,504 219 24,285 Current tax liabilities 1,069 3 1,066 Accruals and deferred income 4,860 49 4,811 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 15, 33 18,799 211 18,588 Deferred tax liabilities 28 161 161 Provisions for liabilities and charges 34 215 215 Retirement benefit obligations 35 504 13 491 Total liabilities 590,463 5,310 585,153 Equity Share capital 36 1,207 1,207 Reserves 44,155 44,155 Total parent company shareholders equity 45,362 45,362 Non-controlling interests 37 693 693 Total equity 46,055 46,055 Total equity and liabilities 636,518 5,310 631,208 Financial statements and notes 305 43.
Restatement of prior year continued Cash ow statement As reported Permata Restated 2012 restatement 2012 Notes $million $million $million Cash ows from operating activities profit before taxation 6,876 25 6,851 Adjustments for: Non-cash items and other adjustments included within income statement 39 2,465 44 2,421 Change in operating assets 39 15,882 7,473 8,409 Change in operating liabilities 39 26,416 7,446 18,970 Contributions to dened benefit schemes 204 1 203 UK and overseas taxes paid 1,791 24 1,767 Net cash from operating activities 17,880 17 17,863 Net cash ows from investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment 168 6 162 Disposal of property, plant and equipment 195 195 Acquisition or investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, net of cashacquired 63 63 Purchase of investment securities 21 157,325 442 156,883 Disposal and maturity of investment securities 21 145,905 578 145,327 Dividends received from investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 23 14 14 Net cash used in investing activities 11,442 130 11,572 Net cash ows from nancing activities Issue of ordinary and preference share capital, net of expenses 59 59 Purchase of own shares 425 425 Exercise of share options through ESOP 39 39 Interest paid on subordinated liabilities 871 118 989 Gross proceeds from issue of subordinated liabilities 3,390 3,390 Repayment of subordinated liabilities 1,701 1,701 Interest paid on senior debts 867 867 Gross proceeds from issue of senior debts 11,453 11,453 Repayment of senior debts 5,938 5,938 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests and preference shareholders, net of scrip 161 161 Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders, net of scrip 1,306 1,306 Net cash from nancing activities 3,672 118 3,554 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 10,110 265 9,845 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 70,450 884 69,566 Effect of exchange rate movements on cash and cash equivalents 40 67 107 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 40 80,600 1,082 79,518 306 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 43.
Restatement of prior year continued Restatement by class of business The Groups profits and interests in associates are allocated to CB and WB.
Joint venture balances were previously allocated to CB and WB on a line-by-line basis and has been presented within the line following adoption of IFRS 11.
As reported Restatement Restated 2012 2012 2012 Corporate Corporate Corporate Total Consumer Wholesale items not Consumer Wholesale items not Consumer Wholesale items not reportable Banking Banking allocated Total Banking Banking allocated Total Banking Banking allocated segments $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Operating income 7,202 11,779 90 19,071 181 107 288 7,021 11,672 90 18,783 Operating expenses 4,723 5,999 174 10,896 127 47 174 4,596 5,952 174 10,722 Operating profit before impairment losses and taxation 2,479 5,780 84 8,175 54 60 114 2,425 5,720 84 8,061 Impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit risk provisions 697 524 1,221 23 2 25 674 522 1,196 Other impairment 4 120 70 194 41 31 70 2 45 151 196 profit from associates 116 116 43 139 116 66 43 139 182 profit before taxation 1,778 5,136 38 6,876 29 50 46 25 1,749 5,186 84 6,851 Total assets employed 143,250 491,409 1,859 636,518 4,551 6,936 6,177 5,310 138,699 484,473 8,036 631,208 Total liabilities employed 189,779 399,454 1,230 590,463 3,452 1,855 3 5,310 186,327 397,599 1,227 585,153 Reclassication of financial liabilities As reported Restatements Restated 2012 2012 2012 Designated Designated Designated at fair value at fair value at fair value through profit through profit through profit Trading or loss Total Trading or loss Total Trading or loss Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Deposits by banks 933 35 968 933 933 968 968 Customer accounts 4,858 7,385 12,243 4,858 4,858 12,243 12,243 Debt securities in issue 3,902 1,359 5,261 3,902 3,902 5,261 5,261 Total 9,693 8,779 18,472 9,693 9,693 18,472 18,472 Financial statements and notes 307 44.
Contingent liabilities and commitments The table below shows the contract or underlying principal amounts and risk-weighted amounts of unmatured off-balance sheet transactions at the balance sheet date.
The contract or underlying principal amounts indicate the volume of business outstanding and do not represent amounts at risk.
2013 2012 $million $million Contingent liabilities Guarantees and irrevocable letters of credit 36,936 34,258 Other contingent liabilities 10,002 10,035 46,938 44,293 Commitments Documentary credits and short-term trade-related transactions 7,409 7,610 Forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed 459 711 Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend: One year and over 43,294 39,294 Less than one year 17,983 17,353 Unconditionally cancellable 123,481 110,138 192,626 175,106 The Groups share of contingent liabilities and commitments relating to joint venture is $388 million 2012: $348 million.
Contingent liabilities The Group undertakes to make a payment on behalf of its customers for guarantees issued such as for performance bonds or as irrevocable letters of credit as part of the Groups transaction banking business for which an obligation to make a payment has not arisen at the reporting datethose are included in these financial statements as contingent liabilities.
Other contingent liabilities primarily include revocable letters of credit and bonds issued on behalf of customers to customs ofcials, for bids or offers and as shipping guarantees.
The Group receives legal claims against it in a number of jurisdictions arising in the normal course of business.
The Group considers none of these matters as material either individually or in aggregate.
Where appropriate the Group recognises a provision for liabilities when it is probable that an outow of economic resources embodying economic benets will be required and for which a reliable estimate can be made of the obligation see note 34.
The Group seeks to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, but may be subject to regulatory actions and investigations across our markets, the outcome of which are generally difficult to predict and can be material to the Group.
Commitments Where the Group has confirmed its intention to provide funds to a customer or on behalf of a customer in the form of loans, overdrafts, future guarantees whether cancellable or not or letters of credit and the Group has not made payments at the balance sheet date, those instruments are included in these financial statements as commitments.
Legal and regulatory matters The Group receives legal claims against it in a number of jurisdictions arising in the normal course of business.
Where appropriate the Group recognises a provision for liabilities when it is probable that an outow of economic resources embodying economic benets will be required and for which a reliable estimate can be made of the obligation.
Further details on regulatory compliance, reviews, request for information, investigation and risk of fraud and other criminal acts sections are set out on pages 67 and 68 of Risk review.
Post balance sheet events On 1 January 2014 the Group adopted a new regional geographic structure in order to better align with how the Group is managed.
The new regions are Greater China including Hong Kong : Northeast Asia including Korea : ASEAN including Singapore : South Asia including India : Middle East, North Africa and Pakistan: Africa: Americas: and Europe.
On 9 January 2014 the Group announced that with effect from 1 April 2014 the two businesses of the Group, WB and CB would be integrated to form one business.
The new business will be organised into three client segment groups Corporate and Institutional: Commercial and Private banking: and Retail serviced by five global product groups.
The impact of this change will be reected in the Groups 2014 Half Year report.
308 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 47.
Related party transactions Directors and ofcers Details of directors remuneration and interests in shares are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report.
IAS 24 Related party disclosures requires the following additional information for key management compensation.
Key management comprises non-executive directors, executive directors of Standard Chartered PLC and the Court Directors of Standard Chartered Bank.
2013 2012 $million $million Salaries, allowances and benets in kind 25 21 1 Pension contributions 5 5 Bonuses paid or receivable 7 10 Share-based payments 28 35 65 71 1 The 2012 pension balance has been restated previously stated as $6 million.
In addition, for 2013 the methodology for calculating pension value has been changed to be consistent with the new UK remuneration reporting requirements.
The change in methodology does not affect the restated 2012 gure as the difference in value is not material Transactions with directors, ofcers and others At 31 December 2013, the total amounts to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006 the Act and the Listing Rules of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange Limited HK Listing Rules about loans to directors and ofcers were as follows: 2013 2012 Number $000 Number $000 Directors 5 6,446 4 4,898 1 Ofcers 1 18 1 For 2012 disclosure, the term Ofcers means the members of the Executive Management Group, other than those who were directors of Standard Chartered PLC and the Group Company Secretary As at 31 December 2013, Standard Chartered Bank had created a charge over $60 million 2012: $43 million of cash assets in favour of the independent trustee of its employer nanced retirement benefit scheme.
Other than as disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts, there were no other transactions, arrangements or agreements outstanding for any director, connected person or officer of the Company which have to be disclosed under the Act, the rules of the UK Listing Authority or the HK Listing Rules.
Associates The Group has loans and advances to Merchant Solutions and China Bohai Bank totalling $nil million and $20 million respectively at 31 December 2013 2012: $29 million and $32 million respectively and amounts payable to Merchant Solutions and China Bohai Bank of $nil million and $20million respectively at 31 December 2013 2012: $21 million and $16 million respectively.
Joint ventures The Group has loans and advances to PT Bank Permata Tbk totalling $31 million at 31 December 2013 2012: $18 million, and deposits of$31million 2012: $23 million.
The Group has investments in subordinated debt issued by PT Bank Permata Tbk of $114 million 2012: $128 million.
Company The Company has received $663 million 2012: $510 million of interest income from Standard Chartered Bank.
The Company issues debt externally and lends proceeds to Group companies.
At 31 December 2013, it had loans to and debt instruments issued by Standard Chartered Bank of $14,253 million 2012: $13,436 million, derivative financial assets of $1,053 million 2012: $1,002 million and $346 million derivative financial liabilities 2012: $nil million with Standard Chartered Bank, loans of $1,699 million 2012: $1,770 million to Standard Chartered Holdings Limited.
At 31 December 2013, it had loans to Standard Chartered International Holdings of $619 million 2012: $nil.
In 2006, the Company licensed intellectual property rights related to the Companys main brands to an indirect wholly owned subsidiary, Standard Chartered Strategic Brand Management Limited, the income from which is held on the Companys balance sheet and released over the term of licence, which expires in 2015.
At 31 December 2013, $36 million 2012: $54 million has been included as deferred income in the Company balance sheet in relation to this licence.
The Company has an agreement with Standard Chartered Bank that in the event of Standard Chartered Bank defaulting on its debt coupon interest payments, where the terms of such debt requires it, the Company shall issue shares as settlement for non-payment of the coupon interest.
Standard Chartered PLC Company Classication and measurement of financial instruments 2013 2012 Derivatives held Amortised Derivatives held for hedging cost Total for hedging Amortised cost Total Financial assets $million $million $million $million $million $million Derivatives 1,053 1,053 1,002 1,002 Debt securities 10,411 10,411 8,835 8,835 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 18,558 18,558 16,879 16,879 Total at 31 December 1,053 28,969 30,022 1,002 25,714 26,716 Derivatives held for hedging are held at fair value, are classied as Level 2 and the counterparty is Standard Chartered Bank.
Debt securities comprise corporate securities issued by Standard Chartered Bank with a fair value of $10,411 million 2012: $8,876 million.
In 2012 and 2013, amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings have a fair value equal to carrying value.
2013 2012 Derivatives held Amortised Derivatives held for hedging cost Total for hedging Amortised cost Total Financial liabilities $million $million $million $million $million $million Derivatives 346 346 Debt securities in issue 18,650 18,650 14,534 14,534 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 8,955 8,955 4,806 4,806 Total at 31 December 346 27,605 27,951 19,340 19,340 Derivatives held for hedging are held at fair value, classied as Level 2 and the counterparty is Standard Chartered Bank.
The fair value of debt securities in issue is $16,478 million 2012: $15,563 million.
The fair value of subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds is $9,172 million 2012: $4,953 million.
Derivative financial instruments 2013 2012 Notional Notional principal amounts Assets Liabilities principal amounts Assets Liabilities Total derivatives $million $million $million $million $million $million Foreign exchange derivative contracts: Currency swaps 12,590 880 46 9,224 663 Interest rate derivative contracts: Swaps 10,250 173 300 7,500 339 Total derivatives 22,840 1,053 346 16,724 1,002 Credit risk Maximum exposure to credit risk 2013 2012 $million $million Derivative financial instruments 1,053 1,002 Debt securities 10,411 8,835 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 18,558 16,879 30,022 26,716 In 2012 and 2013, amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings were neither past due nor impaired: the Company had no individually impaired loans.
In 2012 and 2013, the Company had no impaired debt securities.
The debt securities held by the Group are issued by Standard Chartered Bank, a wholly owned subsidiary undertaking with a credit rating AA to AA.
310 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 48.
Standard Chartered PLC Company continued Liquidity risk The following table analyses the residual contractual maturity of the assets and liabilities of the Company on a discounted basis: 2013 Between Between Between Between Between Between More than one month thr ee months six months nine months one year two years five years One month and and and and and and and or less thr ee months six months nine months one year two years five years undated Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Assets Derivative financial instruments 203 34 312 230 274 1,053 Investment securities 10,411 10,411 Amount owed by subsidiary undertakings 18,558 18,558 Investments in subsidiary undertakings 20,122 20,122 Total assets 203 34 312 230 49,365 50,144 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 180 166 346 Senior debt 2,565 6,412 7,140 2,533 18,650 Other liabilities 9 9 18 483 519 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 8,955 8,955 Total liabilities 2,574 9 6,430 7,320 12,137 28,470 Net liquidity gap 2,371 25 6,118 7,090 37,228 21,674 2012 Between Between Between Between Between Between More than one month thr ee months six months nine months one year two years five years One month and and and and and and and or less thr ee months six months nine months one year two years five years undated Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Assets Derivative financial instruments 233 508 261 1,002 Investment securities 250 8,585 8,835 Amount owed by subsidiary undertakings 16,879 16,879 Investments in subsidiary undertakings 14,369 14,369 Other assets 115 115 Total assets 250 233 508 40,209 41,200 Liabilities Senior debt 56 459 3,577 9,061 1,381 14,534 Other liabilities 392 392 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 41 71 470 4,224 4,806 Total liabilities 97 530 3,577 9,531 5,997 19,732 Net liquidity gap 97 280 3,344 9,023 34,212 21,468 Financial statements and notes 311 48.
Standard Chartered PLC Company continued Financial liabilities excluding derivative financial instruments on an undiscounted basis 2013 Between Between Between Between Between Between More than one month thr ee months six months nine months one year two years five years One month and and and and and and and or less thr ee months six months nine months one year two years five years undated Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Debt securities in issue 114 2,726 161 161 6,686 7,962 3,742 21,552 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 202 51 51 51 355 355 12,120 13,185 Other liabilities Total liabilities 316 2,777 212 212 7,041 8,317 15,862 34,737 2012 Between Between Between Between Between Between More than one month three months six months nine months one year two years five years One month and and and and and and and or less three months six months nine months one year two years five years undated Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Debt securities in issue 56 460 4,383 9,643 1,444 15,986 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 41 77 157 314 6,089 6,678 Other liabilities 203 203 Total liabilities 97 537 4,540 9,957 7,736 22,867 Derivative financial instruments on an undiscounted basis Derivative financial instruments include those net settled derivative contracts in a net liability position, together with the pay leg of gross settled contracts regardless of whether the overall contract is in an asset or liability position.
The receiving leg is not shown in this table and as a result the derivative amounts in this table are inated by their exclusion.
2013 Between Between Between Between Between Between More than one month thr ee months six months nine months one year two years five years One month and and and and and and and or less thr ee months six months nine months one year two years five years undated Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Derivative financial instruments 73 15 119 85 88 358 1,064 2,803 4,605 2012 Between Between Between Between Between Between More than one month three months six months nine months one year two years five years One month and and and and and and and or less three months six months nine months one year two years five years undated Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Derivative financial instruments 28 15 79 42 80 214 508 335 1,301 312 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Supplementary information Standard Chartered is Kenyas oldest foreign bank, banking Kenyans for over 100 years.
313 Supplementary financial information 314 Shareholder information 330 Glossary 332 Major awards 2013 336 Index 339 314 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Supplementary financial information Average balance sheets and yield The following tables set out the average balances and yields for the Groups assets and liabilities for the years ended 31 December 2013 and 31December 2012.
For the purpose of the following table, average balances have generally been determined on the basis of daily balances, except for certain categories, for which balances have been determined less frequently.
The Group does not believe that the information presented in this table would be signicantly different had such balances been determined on a daily basis.
2013 Average Average non-interest interest earning earning Interest Gross balance balance income yield $million $million $million % Assets Cash and balances at central banks 23,607 35,293 153 0.4 Gross loans and advances to banks 2,353 71,884 1,082 1.5 Gross loans and advances to customers 336 303,107 13,202 4.4 Impairment provisions against loans and advances to banks and customers 2,730 Investment securities 6,799 113,733 3,156 2.8 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 8,635 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 97,861 Total average assets 139,591 521,287 17,593 3.4 2012 Average Average non-interest interest earning earning Interest Gross balance balance income yield $million $million $million % Assets Cash and balances at central banks 18,561 31,668 159 0.5 Gross loans and advances to banks 2,456 65,310 1,202 1.8 Gross loans and advances to customers 282,586 13,259 4.7 Impairment provisions against loans and advances to banks and customers 2,450 Investment securities 5,962 106,377 3,207 3.0 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 7,382 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 103,078 Total average assets 137,439 483,491 17,827 3.7 Supplementary information 315 Average balance sheets and yield continued 2013 Average Average non-interest interest bearing bearing Interest Rate balance balance expense paid $million $million $million % Liabilities Deposits by banks 3,881 44,744 388 0.9 Customer accounts: Current accounts and savings deposits 32,323 160,160 1,014 0.6 Time and other deposits 3,484 197,864 3,370 1.7 Debt securities in issue 2,823 66,214 1,010 1.5 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 86,825 377 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 66 19,234 655 3.4 Non-controlling interests 432 Shareholders funds 45,804 Total average liabilities and shareholders funds 175,638 488,593 6,437 1.3 Net yield 2.1 Net interest margin 2.1 2012 Average Average non-interest interest bearing bearing Interest Rate balance balance expense paid $million $million $million % Liabilities Deposits by banks 3,207 44,986 532 1.2 Customer accounts: Current accounts and savings deposits 29,890 141,832 1,277 0.9 Time and other deposits 2,908 189,394 3,529 1.9 Debt securities in issue 62,786 1,139 1.8 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 94,987 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 18,000 569 3.2 Non-controlling interests 486 Shareholders funds 43,037 Total average liabilities and shareholders funds 174,515 456,998 7,046 1.5 Net yield 2.1 Net interest margin 2.2
