98 98 S SV VG C G Ca ap pi it ta al p l pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 13 3 Notice of Annual General Meeting This document is important and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt about the action you should take, youshould consult an independent adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 in the United Kingdom, or another appropriately authorised independent adviser.
If you have sold or transferred all your shares in SVG Capital plc, please send this document and theaccompanying proxy form to the purchaser, transferee or agent through whom you acted for forwarding to the purchaser ortransferee.
NOTICE is hereby given that the eighteenth annual general meeting of SVG Capital plc will be held at 11.30 a. m. on 28 March 2014 atBow Bells House, 1 Bread Street, London EC4M 9HH to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions the Resolutions, of which Resolutions 1 to 13 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and Resolutions 14 and 15 will be proposed as special resolutions: Ordinary resolutions 1.
To receive the Reports of the Directors and the audited Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 together with the Auditors report on those Accounts.
To approve the Companys Remuneration Policy.
To approve the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2013.
To elect David Robins as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Andrew Sykes as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Lynn Fordham as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Stephen Duckett as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Caroline Goodall as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors of the Company.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors of the Company.
That, in substitution for all subsisting authorities, the Board be generally and unconditionally authorised to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the Company: A up to a nominal amount of 2,313,292 equivalent to 1% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 13February 2014 in connection with the SVG Capital 2007 Performance Share Plan: B up to a nominal amount of 77,109,764 such amount to be reduced by the nominal amount allotted or granted under paragraph C below in excess of such sum : and C comprising equity securities as defined in the Companies Act 2006 up to a nominal amount of 154,219,528 suchamount to be reduced by any allotments or grants made under paragraph B above in connection with an offer by way ofarights issue: i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and ii to holders of other equity securities as required by the rights of those securities or as the Board otherwise considers necessary, and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, orunder the laws of, any territory or any other matter: such authorities to apply until the end of next years annual general meeting or, if earlier, until the close of business on 27 June 2015 but, in each case, during this period the Company may make offers and enter into agreements which would, or might, require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares to be granted after the authority ends and the Board may allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares under any such offer or agreement as ifthe authority had not ended.
Without prejudice to any future or subsisting authorities and in addition to the power granted pursuant to Resolution 13, the Company be and is hereby generally authorised for the purposes of Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 to apply an amount not exceeding 150 million to make market purchases as defined in Section 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of its ordinary shares of 1.00each Ordinary Shares, in connection with one or more tender offers for Ordinary Shares, provided that: A the maximum number of Ordinary Shares that may be purchased under this authority is 34,076,660 equivalent to 14.73% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 13 February 2014 : B the maximum price that may be paid for any Ordinary Share shall be such amount as equals the Adjusted Diluted NAV per Ordinary Share and the minimum price that may be paid for any Ordinary Share is 1.00: Strategic report Corporate information Financial information Company information SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2013 99 C this authority will expire at the conclusion of the Companys annual general meeting held in 2015 or, if earlier, at the close of business on 27 June 2015: D the Ordinary Shares are as at the pricing of the relevant tender offer trading at a discount to the Adjusted Diluted NAV per Ordinary Share: E the Company may make a contract or contracts to purchase Ordinary Shares under this authority before its expiry which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of this authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares pursuant to any such contract: and F for the purposes of paragraphs B and D : i t he Adjusted Diluted NAV per Ordinary Share shall mean the Companys most recent published net asset value per Ordinary Share as at the pricing of the relevant tender offer and updated for changes to the value of quoted holdings, Fees and Financing Costs, foreign exchange movements and gains or losses in connection with realisations of investments up to the latest practicable date prior to the pricing of the relevant tender offer Relevant NAV, with the denominator used for calculating the per Ordinary Share value determined on the basis of: a all the Ordinary Shares in issue, less any Ordinary Shares held by the Company in treasury, in each case as at the latest practicable date prior to pricing of the relevant tender offer: and b all Options outstanding as at the latest practicable date prior to pricing of the relevant tender offer which x ifhaving an exercise price, have an exercise price which is less than the Relevant NAV per Ordinary Share on an undiluted basis as described in paragraph a above, having been exercised: and y if having no exercise price, having been satisfied: ii Fees and Financing Costs shall mean management or advisory fees paid or accrued with respect to investments held by the Company, interest, non-utilisation or commitment fees and swap costs paid or accrued with respect to the Companys senior debt and the Companys 120,000,000, 8.25% convertible bonds due 2016: and iii Options shall mean awards made under the SVG Capital Share Incentives Plan, the SVG Capital 2007 Performance Share Plan, the SVG Capital 2010 Performance Share Plan, the Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust pic Executive Share Option Plan 2001 and any awards made under any other employees share scheme or long term incentive scheme as such terms are defined in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority made by the Company in respect of Ordinary Shares from time to time.
Without prejudice to any future or subsisting authorities, that the Company be authorised for the purposes of Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 to make one or more market purchases as defined in Section 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of its ordinary shares of1.00 each Ordinary Shares, suchpower to be limited: A to a maximum number of 22,732,929 Ordinary Shares equivalent to 9.83% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 13 February 2014 : B by the condition that the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 1.00 and the maximum price which maybe paid for an Ordinary Share is the highest of: i an amount equal to 5% above the average market value of an Ordinary Share for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that Ordinary Share is contracted to be purchased: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venues where the purchase is carried out, in each case, exclusive of expenses: and C by the condition that purchases may only be made pursuant to this authority if the Ordinary Shares are at the date of theproposed purchase trading on the London Stock Exchange at a discount to the latest published net asset value per Ordinary Share, s uch power to apply until the end of next years annual general meeting or, if earlier, until the close of business on 27 June 2015 butin each case so that the Company may enter into a contract to purchase Ordinary Shares which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after the power ends and the Company may purchase Ordinary Shares pursuant to any such contract asifthe power had not ended.
Ordinary Shares purchased under this authority may be sold for cash, transferred to satisfy claims under employee share schemes, held in treasury or cancelled.
10 100 0 S SV VG C G Ca ap pi it ta al p l pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 13 3 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Special resolutions 14.
That a general meeting other than an annual general meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
That if Resolution 11 is passed, the Board be given power to allot equity securities as defined in the Companies Act 2006 for cash under the authority given by that Resolution and or to sell ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash as if Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply to any such allotment or sale, such power to be limited: A to the allotment of equity securities and or sale of treasury shares up to a nominal amount of 2,313,292 equivalent to 1% of theissued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 13 February 2014 in connection with the SVG Capital 2007 Performance Share Plan: B to the allotment of equity securities and sale of treasury shares for cash in connection with an offer of, or invitation to apply for, equity securities but in the case of the authority granted under paragraph C of Resolution 11, by way of a rights issue only : i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and ii to holders of other equity securities, as required by the rights of those securities, or as the Board otherwise considers necessary, and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary orappropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, orunder the laws of, anyterritory or any other matter: and C in the case of the authority granted under paragraph B of Resolution 11 and or in the case of any sale of treasury shares for cash, to the allotment otherwise than under paragraph B above of equity securities up to a nominal amount of 11,566,464 equivalent to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 13 February 2014, such power to apply until the end of next years annual general meeting or, if earlier, until the close of business on 27 June 2015 but, ineach case, during this period the Company may make offers and enter into agreements which would, or might, require equitysecurities to be allotted and treasury shares to be sold after the power ends and the Board may allot equity securities and sell treasury shares under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not ended.
14 February 2014 By order of the Board Company Secretary Stuart Ballard Registered Office: Bow Bells House, 1 Bread Street, London EC4M 9HH Registered in England and Wales No.
Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the annual general meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held bythat shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
If you do not have a proxy form and believe that you should have one, or if you require additional forms, please contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2776.
Calls cost 8p per minute plus network extras.
Lines open 8.30 a. m. to 5.30 p. m. Monday to Friday.
The Equiniti overseas helpline number is 44 121 415 7047 2.
T o be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy must be received by post or during normal business hours only by hand at Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA or at www.
co. uk, in each case no later than 11.30 a. m. on 26 March 2014 3.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction as described in paragraph 9 below will not prevent a shareholder attending the annual general meeting and voting in person if he she wishes to do so 4.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed asaproxy for the annual general meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights 5.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1 and 2 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company 6.
T o be entitled to attend and vote at the annual general meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, shareholders mustbe registered in the register of members of the Company at 6.00 p. m. on 26 March 2014 or, in the event of any adjournment, 6.00 p. m. on the date which is two working days before the time of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the register of members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights ofany person to attend and vote at the meeting 7.
As at 13 February 2014 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital consisted of 274,556,500 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
43,227,208 shares were held in treasury.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 13 February 2014 were 231,329,292.
C opies of the service contracts and letters of appointment of the Directors of the Company will be available for at least 15 minutes prior to the annual general meeting andduring the annual general meeting.
C REST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf Strategic report Corporate information Financial information Company information SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2013 101 10.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual available via www.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by the latest time for the receipt of proxy appointments specified above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means 11.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available specialprocedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
Itis the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message istransmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, inparticular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings 12.
T he Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 13.
A ny corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they donot do so in relation to the same shares 14.
I n the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior holder who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by order in which the names appear in the register of members.
A company which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all its powers as a member, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares 15.
Under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that Section have the right to require the Company to publish ona website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are tobe laid before the annual general meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on awebsite under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the annual general meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website 16.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered 17.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in this notice or any related documents including the proxy form to communicate with the Company about proceedings at the meeting or the contents of this notice or for any purpose other than those expressly stated Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting The notes on the following pages give an explanation of the Resolutions.
Resolutions 1 to 13 are proposed as ordinary resolutions.
This means that for each of those Resolutions to be passed, more than half of the votes cast must be in favour of the Resolution.
Resolutions 14 and 15 are proposed as special resolutions.
This means that for each of those Resolutions to be passed, at least three-quarters of the votes cast must be in favour of the Resolution.
The Directors believe that the proposals set out in this notice are in the best interests of the Companys shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, the Board other than, in the case of Resolutions 4 to 8, the Director proposed for reappointment in each Resolution, unanimously recommends that members vote in favour of each Resolution.
Resolution 1: Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The purpose of this Resolution is to receive the Companys Accounts and the Reports of the Directors and Auditors for the year ended 31December 2013.
Resolution 2: Remuneration Policy The purpose of this Resolution is to approve the Companys Remuneration Policy.
This can be found on pages 40 to 42 of the AnnualReport.
Resolution 3: Remuneration Report The purpose of this Resolution is to approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2013.
This can be found on pages 40 to 47 of the Annual Report.
10 102 2 S SV VG C G Ca ap pi it ta al p l pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 13 3 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Resolutions 4 to 8: Directors Biographical details of the Directors presenting themselves for election or re-election can be found on pages 30 and 31 of the Annual Report.
Resolutions 9 and 10: Auditors The Company is required to appoint Auditors for each financial year of the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are presented.
The purpose of these Resolutions is to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to agree the remuneration of the Auditors.
Resolution 11: General power to allot The Directors intend to exercise the authority referred to in paragraph A of Resolution 11 to grant options under the SVG Capital 2007 Performance Share Plan.
Options granted pursuant to this authority will nevertheless count towards limits on the number of new shares that may be issued pursuant to the exercise of options.
Paragraph B of this Resolution would give the Directors the authority to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any securities into shares up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 77,109,764 representing 77,109,764 ordinary shares.
Thisamount represents approximately one-third of the issued share capital of the Company as at 13 February 2014 excluding treasury shares, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice.
In line with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers, paragraph C of this Resolution would give the Directors authority to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any securities into shares in connection with a rights issue in favour of shareholders up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 154,219,528 representing 154,219,528 ordinary shares, as reduced by the nominal amount of any shares issued under paragraph B of this Resolution.
This amount before any reduction represents approximately two-thirds of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at 13 February 2014, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice.
The Directors have no present intention to exercise any of the authorities sought under paragraphs B and C of this Resolution.
However, if they do exercise the authorities, the Directors intend to follow recommendations from the Association of British Insurers concerning their use including as regards the Directors standing for re-election in certain cases.
The authorities sought under paragraphs A, B and C of this Resolution will expire at the earlier of 27 June 2015 and the conclusion ofthe annual general meeting of the Company held in 2015.
As at 13 February 2014, being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice, the Company held 18,616,535 shares intreasury, representing 6.88% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue excluding shares held in treasury.
Resolution 12: Authority to undertake market purchase of own shares by tender offer s Authority is sought for the Company to purchase ordinary shares in connection with one or more tender offers.
Subject to the passing of the Resolution, the Directors current intention is to give shareholders the opportunity from time to time to tender the shares through a series of tender offers for cash if and when the Directors consider that do so would be in the best interests of the Company and shareholders generally.
Authority is sought to return up to 150million to shareholders through the tender offers, in addition to the other authority being sought at the 2014 annual general meeting under Resolution 13.
If the Resolution is passed and the Directors decide to proceed with a tender offer, a circular will be prepared and sent to shareholders providing the necessary details.
The minimum price which may be paid for a share is 1.00.
The maximum price which may be paid for a share is such amount as equals the Adjusted Diluted NAV per ordinary share, as described in the Resolution.
Under the Companys accounting policies, the net asset value will be determined in accordance with the latest issued International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines.
Updates for the purposes of determining the Adjusted Diluted NAV per ordinary share for changes to the value of quoted holdings, Fees and Financing Costs, foreign exchange movements and gains or losses in connection with realisations will be determined in accordance with the Companys accounting policies.
Resolution 13: Authority to undertake market purchase of own shares Authority is sought for the Company to purchase up to 10.00% of its issued shares, renewing the authority granted at previous annualgeneral meetings.
The Company purchased 24,801,000 Ordinary Shares in the period from the last annual general meeting to 13February 2014 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice.
In addition, 15,476,190 shares were purchased pursuant to a tender offer which closed on 15 April 2013.
The Directors would consider exercising the authority provided by this Resolution to acquire shares to hold in treasury to satisfy share options.
The Directors believe holding such shares as treasury shares will provide the Company with increased flexibility in managing itsshare capital.
As at 13 February 2014, being the latest practicable date prior to publication of the notice, the Company held 43,227,208shares in treasury.
The Directors intend to exercise the authority to continue the Companys buy-back programme as part of their strategy to keep under review and manage the share price discount to net asset value.
TheDirectors will exercise this authority only when to do so would be in the best interests of the Company, and of its shareholders generally, and could be expected to result in an increase in the net asset value per share taking into account relevant factors and circumstances at the time.
Strategic report Corporate information Financial information Company information SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2013 103 The minimum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for a share is 1.00.
The maximum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for a share is the highest of i an amount equal to 5% above the average market value for a share for the five business days immediately preceding the date of the contract for purchase and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venues where the purchase is carried out.
The authority will expire at the earlier of 27 June 2015 and the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company held in 2015.
Shares purchased pursuant to the authorities given in Resolutions 12 and or 13 may be sold for cash, transferred to satisfy claims under employee share schemes, held in treasury or cancelled.
The total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding at 13 February 2014 was 4,978,091, which represented approximately 2.15% of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares at that date.
If the Company were to purchase the maximum number of Ordinary Shares permitted by Resolution 12 then the options outstanding at 13 February 2014 would represent approximately 2.78%of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares.
If the Company were to purchase the maximum number of Ordinary Shares permitted by Resolution 13 then the options outstanding at 13 February 2014 would represent approximately 2.39% of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares.
The Directors intend to continue to purchase Ordinary Shares under the existing authority prior to its expiry on 28 March 2014.
Resolution 14: Notice of general meetings Changes made to the Companies Act 2006 by the Shareholders Rights Regulations increase the notice period required for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless Shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days.
Annual general meetings will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
Before the coming into force of the Shareholders Rights Regulations on 3 August 2009, the Company was able to call general meetings other than an annual general meeting on 14 clear days notice without obtaining such shareholder approval.
In order to preserve this ability, Resolution 14 seeks such approval.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next annual general meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine for such meetings, but only where the flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
Note that the changes to the Companies Act 2006 mean that, in order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear days notice, the Company must make a means of electronic voting available to all shareholders for that meeting.
Resolution 15: General power to disapply pre-emption rights This Resolution will be proposed as a special resolution, which requires a 75% majority of the votes to be cast in favour.
It would give the Directors the authority to allot shares or sell any shares which the Company may elect to hold in treasury for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
The Directors intend to exercise the authority referred to in paragraph A of Resolution 15 whenever they believe it is advantageous toshareholders to do so.
The Directors are seeking the authority referred to in paragraph B of Resolution 15 in order to provide flexibility in raising monies to take advantage of opportunities arising through the launch of new funds and for general corporate purposes.
It is the intention of the Board that any equity securities allotted under this authority will be allotted at an effective premium to the estimated net asset value pershare at the date of pricing of the issue of the relevant equity securities.
The authority in paragraphs B and C would be limited to allotments or sales in connection with pre-emptive offers and offers to holders of other equity securities if required by the rights of those securities or as the Board otherwise considers necessary, or otherwise up to a nominal amount of 11,566,464 representing 11,566,464 shares.
This nominal amount represents approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 13 February 2014, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice.
Inrespect of this aggregate nominal amount, the Directors confirm their intention to follow the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling three-year period where the Principles provide that usage in excess of7.5% should not take place without prior consultation with shareholders.
If the Company were to purchase the maximum number of Ordinary Shares permitted by Resolution 12 and 13, then the options outstanding at 13 February 2014 would represent approximately 2.87% of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares.
