10 104 4 S SV VG C G Ca ap pi it ta al p l pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 13 3 Company summary and E-communications for shareholders The Company SVG Capital plc is a private equity investor listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company carries on business as an investment company within the meaning of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
In order to obtain exemption from capital gains tax the Company conducts itself with a view to continuing as an approved investment trust for the purposes of Section 1158 of the United Kingdom Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The Company is not a close company for taxation purposes.
Information for shareholders The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The stock exchange code for the shares is SVI.
The price of the shares isquoted daily in the Financial Times, the Daily Telegraph and The Times.
The net asset value is calculated quarterly, with the Company publishing accounts with a full investment portfolio review as at 30Juneand 31 December each year.
A factsheet containing information including the diversification of the portfolio and the Companys largest investments is published quarterly and is available on the website and also by request from the Company Secretary.
Registrar services and E-communications for shareholders Communications with shareholders are mailed to the address held on the share register.
Any notifications and enquiries relating toregistered share holdings, including a change of address or other amendment should be directed to Equiniti Registrars at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
The helpline telephone number of Equiniti Registrars is 0871 384 2776 Callscost8pperminute plus network extras.
Lines open 8.30 a. m. to 5.30 p. m. Monday to Friday.
If calling from overseas, pleasecall 44 0 121 415 7047.
SVG Capital would like to encourage shareholders to receive shareholder documents electronically, via our website or by email notification instead of hard copy format.
This is a faster and more environmentally friendly way of receiving shareholder documents.
The online Shareview service from our registrar, Equiniti, provides all the information required regarding your shares.
Its features include: The option to receive shareholder communications electronically instead of by post.
Direct access to data held for you on the share register including recent share movements and dividend details.
The ability to change your address or dividend payment instructions online.
To receive shareholder communications electronically in future, including all reports and notices of meetings, you just need theshareholder reference printed on your proxy form or dividend notices, and knowledge of your registered address.
Please register your details free on: www.
co. uk Should you require further information, please visit: www.
com capital invrelations shareholder services or contact investorrelations@svgcapital.
