Principal accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented unless otherwise stated.
General information Carpetright plc the Company and its subsidiaries together, the Group are retailers of floor coverings and beds.
The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange and incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of its registered office is Harris House, Purfleet Bypass, Purfleet, Essex, RM19 1TT.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Business Review on pages 1 to 17.
Basis of preparation The financial statements of the Group are drawn up to within seven days of the accounting record date being 30 April of each year.
The financial year for 2013 represents the 52 weeks ended 27 April 2013.
The comparative financial year for 2012 was 52 weeks ended 28 April 2012.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations endorsed by the European Union, together with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for pension assets and liabilities and share based payments which are measured at fair value.
The principal accounting policies set out below have been consistently applied to all periods presented unless otherwise stated.
The Company has elected to take the exemption under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its profit and loss account.
The loss for the Company for the period was 7.8m 2012: profit of 19.7m.
New and amended accounting standards The following new standards and amendments to standards, which are mandatory for the first time in the financial year beginning 29 April 2012, are relevant for the Group but have not had a material impact in the current financial year: IFRS 7 revised Financial instruments: disclosures disclosure on transfer of financial assets.
IAS 12 Income taxes accounting for investment properties.
At 27 April 2013 the following new standards and interpretations and amendments to existing standards which are expected to be relevant to the Group and have an immaterial impact on the financial statements, were issued but not yet effective: IFRS 7 amendment Financial instruments disclosures on offsetting effective from 1 January 2013.
IFRS 9 reissued Financial instruments effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
The standard sets out how an entity should classify and measure financial assets, as well as the derecognition of financial instruments.
The Group will apply IFRS 9 when it becomes effective and is endorsed by the EU.
IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IFRS 12 Disclosures of interest in other entities effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IAS 1 amendment Presentation of financial statements effective for periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012.
The amendment changes the presentation of the Statement of other comprehensive income.
IAS 19 revised Employee benefits effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
This changes the recognition and measurement of defined benefit expense as well as the disclosures.
IAS 27 revised Consolidated and separate financial statements effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IAS 28 revised Investment in associates effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IAS 32 amendment Financial instruments: presentation effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
The 2011 Improvement project effective from 1 January 2013.
The EU has not yet endorsed these changes.
IFRS 10, IFRS 12, IAS 27 revised and IAS 28 revised are effective for EU entities for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Business review Governance Financial statements 45 45 Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of in the period are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal respectively.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains or losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Exchange differences The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentational currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies, which are those other than the functional currency of an entity, are recorded at the opening rate for the month in which the transaction occurs which is used as a reasonable approximation to the rate at the transaction date.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Resulting exchange gains or losses are recognised in the income statement for the period except where they are part of a net foreign investment hedge when they are recognised in equity.
On consolidation the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses of foreign operations are translated at the average rate during the period.
Differences on translation are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation the cumulative exchange differences for that operation are recognised in the income statement as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of that operation and are translated at the rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Segment reporting Segmental information is presented using a management approach on the same basis as that used for internal reporting to the Chief Operating decision maker.
The Chief Operating decision maker, who is responsible for resource allocation and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Executive Committee.
Revenue Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the provision of goods and services to customers outside the Group net of returns, sales allowances and value added and other sales based taxes.
Revenue from goods and services is recognised at the point the Group fulfils its commercial obligations to the customer, the revenue and costs in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably and collectability is reasonably assured.
Share based payments The Group issues equity-settled share based payments to certain employees.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of options is recognised as an expense and is calculated using Black-Scholes model.
The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of options vesting.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any service and performance conditions that are included in the assumptions about the number of options which are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date the Group revises its estimates of the number of options which are expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the vesting period.
Impairment Assets that have an indefinite useful life, for example goodwill, are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for indications of impairment at each balance sheet date.
If there is an indication of impairment the recoverable amount of either the asset or the cash-generating unit to which it belongs is estimated.
Cash-generating units are used where an individual asset does not generate cash flows which are independent of other assets.
The recoverable amount of a non-financial asset is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Value in use is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset or cash-generating unit.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffer an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of impairment at each reporting date.
uk 46 46 Notes to the accounts continued 1.
Principal accounting policies continued Other operating income Rental income earned on investment property is recognised in other operating income, in accordance with the substance of the relevant rental agreements.
Profits or losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment represent the difference between the net proceeds and the net carrying value at the date of sale.
Disposals are accounted for when there has been an unconditional exchange of contracts except where payment or completion is expected to occur significantly after exchange.
Exceptional items Profits losses on property disposals and non-recurring transactions which are material by virtue of their size or incidence such as major reorganisation costs, onerous leases and impairments are disclosed as exceptional items.
Tax Current tax liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be paid, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the Companys subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income.
Deferred tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences, and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax is calculated at the rates of tax that are expected to apply when the asset or liability is settled, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, and is not discounted.
Tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity: otherwise, it is recognised in the income statement.
Dividends Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders or, in the case of interim dividends, paid.
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired entity.
Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Other intangible assets Purchased brand names and other intangible assets are capitalised at cost.
Acquired software licences and software development costs are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
Amortisation of intangible assets is calculated to write off the cost of the asset, on a straight line basis, over its expected useful life.
The expected useful lives generally applicable are: Brands 20 years Computer software 5 to 10 years Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Business review Governance Financial statements 47 47 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provisions for impairment in value.
Depreciation is provided to write down the cost of property, plant and equipment, on a straight line basis, to their estimated residual values over their estimated useful lives.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
The estimated useful lives and residual values of assets are reviewed annually.
The estimated useful lives by asset category that are generally applicable are: Freehold and long leasehold buildings 50 years Short leasehold buildings The shorter of the period of the lease and the estimated useful life Fixtures and fittings 7 to 15 years Computers 5 to 7 years Motor vehicles 4 years Other plant and machinery 7 to 10 years Borrowing costs Gross interest costs incurred on the financing of major projects are capitalised until the time that they are available for use.
Unless a specific borrowing is taken out to finance the asset, interest is capitalised using the weighted average interest rate of all non specific borrowings.
Where a specific borrowing is taken out to finance the asset, interest is capitalised at the rate applicable to that borrowing.
Investment property Property that is held to earn rental income and for capital appreciation is separately disclosed as investment property.
Investment property is carried at depreciated historical cost.
Depreciation rates and useful lives of investment property are the same as those for property, plant and equipment.
Leasing commitments Leases are classified as finance leases where the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets used by the Group which have been funded through finance leases are capitalised in property, plant and equipment and the resulting lease obligations are included in payables.
The assets are depreciated over the shorter of their useful lives and the period of the lease.
The interest element of the rental obligations is charged to the income statement over the period of the lease and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Premiums payable, rent free periods and contributions receivable on entering an operating lease are charged or credited to income on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Investment in subsidiaries The Companys investment in subsidiary undertakings is recognised at cost and is accounted for net of impairment losses.
Income from investments is recognised in the income statement to the extent that post acquisition profits are received.
Distributions of pre-acquisition profits reduce the cost of the investment.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of weighted average cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling prices less further costs to be incurred to disposal.
Provisions are made for obsolescence, mark down and shrinkage based on actual losses, ageing of inventories and sales trends.
Rebates receivable from suppliers Volume related rebates receivable from suppliers are credited to the carrying value of the inventory to which they relate.
Where a rebate agreement with a supplier covers more than one year, the rebates are recognised in the period in which they are earned.
Trade receivables and payables Trade receivables and payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently adjusted to the amount receivable or payable.
Receivables are stated net of a provision for impairment.
uk 48 48 Notes to the accounts continued 1.
Principal accounting policies continued Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, cash at bank, deposits repayable on demand and highly liquid investments.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents also includes bank overdrafts which are shown within borrowings and overdrafts in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Bank loans and overdrafts Bank loans and overdrafts are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate model.
Provisions A provision is recognised where the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are calculated on a discounted basis when appropriate.
Retirement benefit obligation The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution schemes and also participates in a multi-employer pension scheme in respect of its employees in the Netherlands.
The assets and liabilities of all schemes are held separately from those of the Group.
The Group is unable to identify its share of the assets and liabilities of the multi-employer scheme and, therefore, accounts for this scheme as a defined contribution scheme.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit schemes is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
The net retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of the scheme assets at the balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full, directly in equity in the period in which they occur and are presented in other comprehensive income.
Other income and expenses associated with the defined benefit scheme are recognised in the income statement.
The pension cost of defined contribution schemes is charged in the income statement as incurred.
Financial instruments Hedge accounting The Group hedges net investments in foreign entities through currency borrowings, the gains or losses on the retranslation of the borrowings are recognised in equity.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument previously recognised in equity is retained in equity until the hedged transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is then transferred to the income statement.
Critical estimates and judgements The preparation of consolidated financial statements under IFRS requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and assumptions which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below: Impairment of goodwill The Group is required to test whether goodwill has suffered any impairment.
The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based on value in use calculations.
The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing operation of the cash-generating unit and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value.
Actual outcomes could vary significantly from these estimates.
Impairment of assets Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is determined based on value in use calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
Retirement benefits The present value of the defined benefit liabilities recognised in the balance sheet is dependent on the interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds.
The net financing charge is dependent on both the interest rates of high quality corporate bonds and the assumed investment returns on scheme assets.
Other key assumptions for pension obligations, including mortality rates, are based in part on current market conditions.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Business review Governance Financial statements 49 49 2.
Segmental analysis The reportable operating segments derive their revenue primarily from the retailing of floor coverings and beds.
Central costs of the Group are incurred principally in the UK and are immaterial.
As such these costs are included within the UK segment.
Sales between segments are carried out at arms length.
The Groups revenue from external customers in the UK is 381.6m 2012: 381.6m and the total revenue from external customers from other countries is 76.0m 2012: 89.9m.
The total of non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets located in the UK is 154.6m 2012: 162.9m and the total of those located in other countries is 81.1m 2012: 74.4m.
Carpetrights trade has historically shown no distinct pattern of seasonality with trade cycles more closely following economic indicators such as consumer confidence and mortgage approvals.
uk 50 50 Notes to the accounts continued 3.
Operating profit loss, analysis of costs by nature Operating profit loss is stated after charging crediting : Group Group 2013 2012 Notes m m Rental income earned on investment property 1.9 2.1 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense in cost of sales 158.6 171.1 Operating lease rentals: Minimum lease payments in respect of land and buildings 90.0 91.5 Minimum lease payments in respect of plant and machinery 1.6 1.7 Sublease rental income 1.8 2.4 Auditors remuneration for the audit of the Companys annual financial statements 0.2 0.2 Staff costs 4 98.7 98.0 Impairment of non-current assets 5 5.5 1.0 Amortisation of intangible assets 10 1.9 2.5 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment: Owned assets 11 11.8 11.7 Under finance leases 11 0.1 0.1 Depreciation of investment property 12 0.3 0.3 4.
Staff costs The average number of persons full-time equivalents employed by the Group including Directors was as follows: Group Group Company Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Number Number Number Number Stores 2,674 2,689 2,184 2,175 Store support office and distribution centre 387 386 335 332 3,061 3,075 2,519 2,507 The aggregate employment costs of employees and Directors were as follows: Group Group Company Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Notes m m m m Wages and salaries including short term employee benefits 86.5 86.3 70.6 67.9 Social security costs 9.6 9.1 6.7 6.7 Post-employment benefits Defined contribution 22 2.1 2.4 0.9 1.0 Share based payments 25 0.5 0.2 0.5 0.2 98.7 98.0 78.7 75.8 Wages and salaries include short term employee benefits as defined in IAS 19, with the exception of costs associated with the Groups pension schemes.
Post-employment benefits include costs associated with the Groups pension schemes with the exception of net interest costs and the actuarial gain loss on the defined benefit pension schemes and are included in administration expenses.
Share based payments comprise the cost of awards in respect of employee share schemes in accordance with IFRS 2.
These costs are explained in note 25.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Business review Governance Financial statements 51 51 1 The employment costs of key management were as follows: Group Group 2013 2012 m m Salaries including short term employee benefits 4.6 3.3 Social security costs 0.6 0.5 Post employment benefits 0.4 0.4 Share based payments 0.3 0.1 5.9 4.3 1.
Key management comprises Group Directors and those senior officers of the Group responsible for planning, directing or controlling Group activities.
During the year the Executive Directors realised no gains 2012: no gains on the vesting of Long Term Incentive Plans.
Details of these plans, share options and other Directors remuneration are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on pages 26 to 35.
Exceptional items Group Group 2013 2012 Notes m m Property profits losses : UK and the Netherlands 1.2 4.6 Sale of Belgian property subsidiary 8.8 Onerous lease provisions 20 8.1 0.3 Impairment charge: Store assets 11 0.3 1.0 Freehold properties 11,12 5.2 Store support office restructuring 2.1 Write off of unamortised refinancing fees 0.5 Exceptional items before tax 14.8 9.5 In accordance with IAS 36 assets are reviewed for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
The impairment provision relates to properties in the UK and the Netherlands.
The onerous lease provision relates to properties in the UK and the Republic of Ireland that are not trading and are either empty or leased at below the passing rent.
Further details of these exceptional items are disclosed in the Chief Executives review on pages 5 to 7.
Net finance costs Group Group 2013 2012 Notes m m Finance costs Interest on borrowings and overdrafts 1.1 3.2 Fees amortisation 0.5 0.5 Gains on hedging instruments 0.1 Interest on obligations under finance leases 0.1 0.1 Interest on pension scheme obligations 22 1.0 1.1 Other interest payable 0.3 2.7 5.1 Finance income Expected return on pension scheme assets 22 1.0 1.1 1.0 1.1 Net finance costs 1.7 4.0 www.
