230986 Temple Bar pp31-pp51 14 02 2014 17:33 Page 46 Active investment working for you Notice of meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take you should consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 immediately.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your ordinary shares in Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC, please forward this document and the accompanying form of proxy as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was or is being effected for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the eighty-eighth Annual General Meeting of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC will be held at 11.00am on Monday 24 March 2014 at Woolgate Exchange, 25 Basinghall Street, London EC2V 5HA for the following purposes: ORDINARY BUSINESS: 1.
To approve the Companys accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 together with the reports of the directors and auditor thereon.
To approve the report on directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2013.
To approve the Companys remuneration policy.
To declare a final dividend of 22.65p per ordinary share.
To re-elect Mr A T Copple as a director.
To re-elect Mrs J F fide Moller as a director.
To re-elect Mr R W Jewson as a director.
To re-elect Mr J Reeve as a director.
To re-elect Mr M R Riley as a director.
To re-elect Mr D G C Webster as a director.
To re-appoint the auditor and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
SPECIAL BUSINESS: To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions: ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS: 12.
That pursuant to the Articles of Association of the Company, the Company be authorised, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, to send, convey or supply all types of notices, documents or information to members in electronic form by making them available on a website or by any other electronic means as such term is defined in the Companies Act 2006.
That the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company Rights up to an aggregate maximum nominal amount of 1,585,581, being approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 12 February 2014, provided that: i the authority granted shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2015 but may be revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting and may be renewed by the Company in general meeting: and ii the said authority shall allow and enable the directors to make an offer or agreement before the expiry of that authority which would or might require shares to be allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry and the directors may allot shares and grant Rights in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if that authority had not expired.
46 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 230986 Temple Bar pp31-pp51 14 02 2014 17:33 Page 47 Active investment working for you Notice of meeting continued SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS: 14.
That, subject to the passing of resolution 13 set out above, the directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 570-573 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 of that Act for cash, including, for the avoidance of doubt, the sale of shares held by the Company as treasury shares, in accordance with the authority conferred on them by this meeting to allot shares, as if Section 561 i of that Act did not apply to the allotment, provided that the power conferred by this resolution shall be limited to: i the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, open offer or the pre-emptive offer in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them on the record date of such allotment but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal problems under the law of or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory : and ii the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub paragraph i above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value not exceeding 1,585,581: and shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2015 save that the Company may make an offer or agreement before this power has expired, which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
That the Company generally be and is hereby authorised for the purpose of Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 to make market purchases as defined in Section 693 of the Act of ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares provided that: i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 14.99% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of the passing of this resolution: ii the minimum price which may be paid for such shares is 25p per share: iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses payable by the Company which may be paid for such shares shall be 5% above the average of the market value of the share quotations taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days before the purchase is made: iv the authority hereby conferred shall unless previously renewed or revoked expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2015, or, if earlier, the date falling fifteen months from the date of this resolution: v the Company may make a contract to purchase its own shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of its own shares in pursuance of any such contract.
By order of the Board of Directors Woolgate Exchange M K Slade 25 Basinghall Street For Investec Asset Management Limited London EC2V 5HA Secretary 12 February 2014 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 47 ALDERSGATE ST PRINCES ST E ST NEW GAT GRESHAM ST CHEAPSIDE LONDON WALL POULTRY S LOTHBURY BASINGHALL AVE 230986 Temple Bar pp31-pp51 14 02 2014 17:33 Page 48 Active investment working for you Notice of meeting continued Shown is a plan of the location of Investec Asset Management Limited, Woolgate Exchange, 25 Basinghall BARBICAN Street, London EC2V 5HA where the Annual General Meeting will be held MOORGATE on Monday 24 March 2014 at 11.00am.
ST PAULS BANK Investec Asset Management NOTES 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the above 4.
In accordance with Section 325 of the Companies Act meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend the 2006, the right to appoint proxies does not apply to meeting to speak and vote on a show of hands and, on persons nominated to receive information rights under a poll, to vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a Section 146 of the Act.
Persons nominated to receive member of the Company.
A member wishing to appoint information rights under Section 146 of the Act who more than one proxy must appoint each proxy in have been sent a copy of this notice of meeting are respect of a specified number of shares within his hereby informed, in accordance with Section 149 2 of holding.
For this purpose, a member may photocopy the Act, that they may have a right under an agreement the enclosed Form of Proxy before completion and with the registered member by whom they were must indicate the number of shares in respect of which nominated to be appointed, or to have someone else each proxy is appointed.
appointed, as a proxy for this meeting.
If they have no such right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have 2.
Instruments of proxy should be sent to Equiniti Limited, a right under such an agreement to give instructions to Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
BN99 6DA so as to arrive no later than 11.00am on Nominated persons should contact the registered 20 March 2014.
Completion and return of the form of member by whom they were nominated in respect of proxy will not preclude shareholders from attending these arrangements.
and voting at the meeting in person should they wish to do so.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy 3.
Members who hold ordinary shares in the Company in appointment service may do so for the meeting and uncertificated form must have been entered on the any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures Companys register of members by 6.00pm on described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal 20 March 2014 in order to be able to attend and vote members or other CREST sponsored members and at the meeting, or if the meeting is adjourned, 6.00pm those CREST members who have appointed a voting on the day two business days before the time fixed for service provider s should refer to their CREST sponsor the adjourned meeting.
Such members may only vote or voting service provider s who will be able to take at the meeting in respect of ordinary shares held at the the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclears specifications and must 48 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 U LONDON WALL T S E C THREADNEEDLE ST QUEEN VICTORIA ST U R G A T I A M Y N R N U B C MILK ST WOOD ST NOBLE ST MOORGATE COL OLD JEWRY MOO LANE N ST E EMA RGAT ST MA R R T I N S WOOD ST FOSTER E L D N A R D KING ST G E E L D W A GUTTER LA B O A R D S T M T NE A S I N Y S R L L A H G U B S N I F 230986 Temple Bar pp31-pp51 14 02 2014 17:33 Page 49 Active investment working for you Notice of meeting continued NOTES CONTINUED contain the information required for such instructions, as Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required described in the CREST Manual available via to place a statement on a website under Section 527 www.
The CREST message must be of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID statement to the Companys auditor not later than RA19 by not later than 48 hours excluding non-working the time when it makes the statement available on days before the time appointed for the holding of the the website.
The business which may be dealt with at meeting or the adjourned meeting.
For this purpose, the the Annual General Meeting for the relevant financial time of receipt will be taken to be the time as year includes any statement that the Company has determined by the timestamp applied to the CREST been required under Section 527 of the Companies message by the CREST Applications Host from which Act 2006 to publish on a website.
the issuers agent is able to retrieve the CREST message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
A member of the Company which is a corporation may After this time any change of instructions to proxies authorise a person or persons to act as its appointed through CREST should be communicated to representative s at the AGM.
In accordance with the the appointee through other means.
provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST representative may exercise on behalf of the sponsors or voting service provider s, should note that corporation the same powers as the corporation could Euroclear does not make available special procedures in exercise if it were an individual member of the Company, CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system provided that they do not do so in relation to the same timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to shares.
It is no longer necessary to nominate a the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the designated corporate representative.
responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member s is are a CREST personal 8.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting notice of meeting to communicate with the Company service provider s, to procure that the CREST sponsor or for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
voting service provider takes such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a CREST message is transmitted 9.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
The Company must cause to be this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, answered any such question relating to the business their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s is are being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST with the preparation for the meeting or involve the system and timings.
disclosure of confidential information, b the answer The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy has already been given on a website in the form of an instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations interests of the Company or the good order of the 2001. meeting that the question be answered.
Shareholders should note that, under Section 527 of the 10.
None of the directors has a service contract with the Companies Act 2006 members meeting the threshold Company.
requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a 11.
As at 12 February 2014, the latest practicable date statement setting out any matter relating to: prior to publication of this document, the Company i the audit of the Companys accounts including the had 63,423,248 ordinary shares in issue with a total of auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are 63,423,248 voting rights.
to be laid before the Annual General Meeting for the financial year beginning 1 January 2013: or 12.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the 2006, the contents of this notice of meeting, details of Company appointed for the financial year 1 January the total number of shares in respect of which 2013 ceasing to hold office since the previous members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the meeting at which annual accounts and reports were AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, laid.
The Company may not require the shareholders members resolutions or members matters of business requesting any such website publication to pay its received by the Company after the date of this notice expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 will be available on the Companys website: requirements as to website availability of the www.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 49
