230986 Temple Bar pp19-pp30 14 02 2014 17:28 Page 28 Active investment working for you Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code also requires Report, the Report on Directors Remuneration and the Directors to ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts are financial statements in accordance with applicable law and fair, balanced and understandable.
In order to reach a regulations.
conclusion on this matter, the Board has requested that the Company law requires the directors to prepare financial Audit Committee advise on whether it considers that the statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Annual Report and Accounts fulfils these requirements.
The directors are required to prepare the financial statements in process by which the Committee has reached these accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards conclusions is set out in the Audit Committees report on as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the pages 26 to 27.
As a result, the Board has concluded that directors must not approve the financial statements unless the Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2013, they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of provides the information necessary for shareholders to the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial assess the Companys performance, business model and statements, the directors are required to: strategy.
select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable On behalf of the Board users to understand the impact of particular John Reeve transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys Chairman financial position and financial performance: and 12 February 2014 state that the Company has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records which are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: and the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the Company faces.
28 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013
