TH TH THE GROU E GROU E GROUP C P C P COM OM OMP P PANY ANY ANY Notes to the Financial Statements as at 31 March 2013 1 Accounting policies The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 have been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, together with interpretations of the International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in effect, to the extent that they have been adopted by the European Union and as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Group and Company financial statements are expressed in Sterling, which is their functional and presentational currency.
Sterling is the functional currency because it is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except where otherwise indicated.
a Basis of consolidation The Group accounts consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries to 31 March 2013.
Companies, other than subsidiaries, in which the Group has an investment representing 20% or more of the voting rights and over which it exerts significant influence, are treated as associates.
The Group accounts include the appropriate share of the results and reserves of these companies based on the latest available accounts.
Other companies, in which the Group has an investment representing 20% or more of the voting rights but where the directors consider that the Group does not exert significant influence, are not treated as associates and are accounted for as investments.
b Income Dividends and Property Income Distributions PIDs receivable on equity shares are treated as revenue for the year on an exdividend basis.
Where no ex-dividend date is available, dividends receivable on or before the year end are treated as revenue for the year.
Provision is made for any dividends not expected to be received.
Where the Group has elected to receive these dividends in the form of additional shares rather than cash the amount of cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Differences between the value of shares received and the cash dividend foregone are recognised in the capital returns of the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The fixed returns on debt securities are recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on each such security.
Interest receivable from cash and short term deposits is accrued to the end of the year.
c Expenses All expenses and finance costs are accounted for on an accruals basis.
An analysis of retained earnings broken down into revenue and capital items is given in note 17.
In arriving at this breakdown, expenses have been presented as revenue items except as follows: expenses which are incidental to the acquisition or disposal of an investment: expenses are presented as capital where a connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of the investments can be demonstrated.
For the year ended 31 March 2013, one third of the management fees is deemed to relate to the administration of the Company and charged to revenue, the remainder are allocated 50% to revenue return and 50% to capital return.
The overall result is that two thirds of management fees are charged to revenue and one third to capital.
The allocation between the revenue and capital accounts reflects the Boards expectations of long term investment returns.
During the financial year the Board reviewed the history of the returns generated through the income and capital accounts and considered the expectation for the future.
As a result from 1st April 2013, 25% of all annual management fees will be charged to income return and 75% to capital return.
All performance fees are charged to capital return.
Between 1 April 2012 and 12 December 2012 expenses were allocated between the share classes as follows: management fees were charged separately to each share class: administration costs incurred specifically by a single share class were charged to that class: other corporate expenses were allocated to the share class in proportion to the share classes relative net asset values at the end of the previous accounting period.
From 13 December 2012 all expenses were allocated to the Ordinary share class.
TR Property Investment Trust 57 THE GROUP COMPANY Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued d Finance costs The finance cost in respect of capital instruments other than equity shares is calculated so as to give a constant rate of return on the outstanding balance.
For the year to 31 March 2013, 50% of the finance costs are charged to capital return.
As a result of the review carried out by the Board described in note c above, from 1 April 2013 75% of the finance costs will be charged to capital return.
Finance costs are allocated to the share class utilising the capital instrument.
e Taxation Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity.
Otherwise income tax is recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The tax effect of different items of expenditure is allocated between capital and revenue for the Ordinary shares and the Sigma shares using the Groups effective rate of tax for the year.
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred taxation is provided using the liability method on all timing differences, calculated at the rate at which it is anticipated the timing differences will reverse.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only when, on the basis of available evidence, it is more likely than not that there will be taxable profits in the future against which the deferred tax asset can be offset.
The brought forward tax losses held within TR Property Investment Trust plc prior to the introduction of the new Sigma share class were split between the Ordinary shares and the Sigma shares based on the proportion of Ordinary shares converted to Sigma shares on 24 July 2007 18.9943%.
Tax losses have been transferred from one share class to another to the extent that there have been insufficient current year losses available to the share class claiming the losses to cover the taxable income arising.
Following the redesignation of the Sigma shares into Ordinary shares in December 2012 all losses will be carried forward for the benefit of the Ordinary share class.
The Company is an investment trust under s. 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and, as such, is not liable for tax on capital gains.
Capital gains arising in subsidiary companies are subject to capital gains tax.
f Investment property Investment property is measured initially at cost including transaction costs.
Transaction costs include transfer taxes, professional fees for legal services and initial leasing commissions to bring the property to the condition necessary for it to be capable of operating.
The carrying amount also includes the cost of replacing part of an existing investment property at the time that cost is incurred if the recognition criteria are met.
The purchase and sale of properties is recognised to be effected on the date unconditional contracts are exchanged.
Subsequent to initial recognition, investment property is stated at fair value.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair values are included in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year in which they arise.
Investment property is derecognised when it has been disposed of or permanently withdrawn from use and no future economic benefit is expected from its disposal.
Any gains or losses on the retirement or disposal of investment property are recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year of retirement or disposal.
Gains or losses on the disposal of investment property are determined as the difference between net disposal proceeds and the carrying value of the asset in the previous full period financial statements.
Revaluation of Investment Properties The Group carries its investment properties at fair value market value revalued twice a year, with changes in fair values being recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The Group engaged Drivers Jonas Deloitte as independent valuation specialists to determine market value as at 31 March 2013.
58 TR Property Investment Trust TH TH THE GROU E GROU E GROUP C P C P COM OM OMP P PANY ANY ANY Notes to the Financial Statements continued Determination of the market value of investment properties has been prepared on the basis defined by the RICS Valuation Standards 6th Edition The Red Book as follows: The estimated amount for which a property should exchange on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
The valuation takes into account future cash flow from assets such as lettings, tenants profiles, future revenue streams, capital values of fixtures and fittings, plant and machinery, any environmental matters and the overall repair and condition of the property and discount rates applicable to those assets.
These assumptions are based on local market conditions existing at the balance sheet date.
In arriving at their estimates of market values as at 31 March 2013, the valuers have used their market knowledge and professional judgement and have not only relied solely on historical transactional comparables.
Rental income Rental income receivable under operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, except for contingent rental income which is recognised when it arises.
Incentives for lessees to enter into lease agreements are spread evenly over the lease term, even if the payments are not made on such a basis.
The lease term is the non-cancellable period of the lease together with any further term for which the tenant has the option to continue the lease, where, at the inception of the lease, the directors are reasonably certain that the tenant will exercise that option.
Premiums received to terminate or extend leases are recognised in the capital account of the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income when they arise.
Service charges and expenses recoverable from tenants Income arising from expenses recharged to tenants is recognised in the period in which the expense can be contractually recovered.
Service charges and other such receipts are included gross of the related costs in revenue as the directors consider that the Group acts as principal in this respect.
g Investments When a purchase or sale is made under contract, the terms of which require delivery within the timeframe of the relevant market, the investments concerned are recognised or derecognised on the trade date.
All the Groups investments are defined under IFRS as investments designated as fair value through profit or loss but are also described in these financial statements as investments held at fair value.
All investments are designated upon initial recognition as held at fair value, and are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value, which, for quoted investments, is either the bid price or the last traded price, depending on the convention of the exchange on which the investment is quoted.
Unquoted investments or investments for which there is only an inactive market are held at fair value which is based on valuations made by the directors in accordance with IPEVCA guidelines and using current market prices, trading conditions and the general economic climate.
In its financial statements the Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at fair value, being the net asset value of each subsidiary.
Changes in the fair value are recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
On disposal, realised gains and losses are also recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Derivatives Derivatives are held at fair value based either on traded prices or directors fair valuation to the extent that traded prices are unavailable.
Gains and losses on derivative transactions are recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
They are recognised as capital and are shown in the capital column of the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income if they are of a capital nature and are recognised as revenue and shown in the revenue column of the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income if they are of a revenue nature.
To the extent that any gains or losses are of a mixed revenue and capital nature, they are apportioned between revenue and capital accordingly.
TR Property Investment Trust 59 THE GROUP COMPANY Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued CFDs are synthetic equities and are valued by reference to the investments underlying market values.
The sources of the returns under the derivative contract e. g. notional dividends, financing costs, interest returns and capital changes are allocated to the revenue and capital accounts in alignment with the nature of the underlying source of income and in accordance with the guidance given in the AIC SORP.
Notional dividend income or expenses arising on long or short positions are apportioned wholly to the revenue account.
Notional interest income on short positions is allocated wholly to the revenue account.
Notional interest expense on long positions is apportioned between revenue and capital in accordance with the Boards long term expected returns of the Company for the year to 31 March 2013 determined to be 50% to the revenue account and 50% to capital reserves.
Changes in value relating to underlying price movements of securities in relation to CFD exposures are allocated wholly to capital reserves.
h Non-current liabilities All loans and debentures are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of the consideration received, less issue costs where applicable.
After initial recognition, all interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on settlement.
The costs of arranging any interest bearing loans are capitalised and amortised over the life of the loan on an effective interest rate basis.
i Foreign currency translation Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated into Sterling at the rate ruling on the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences are recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
j Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand deposits.
k Adoption of new and revised Standards Standards and Interpretations effective in the current period The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous consolidated financial statements except as follows.
The Group has adopted the following new and amended IAS, IFRS and IFRIC interpretations as of 1 April 2012: IAS 12 Income Taxes: Recovery of Underlying Assets, effective 1 January 2012: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures - Enhanced Derecognition Disclosure Requirements, effective 1 July 2011: The adoption of the standard or interpretations is deemed not to have an impact on the consolidated financial statements or the performance of the Group.
Early adoption of standards and interpretations The standards issued before the reporting date that become effective after 31 March 2013 will not have a material effect on equity or profit for the subsequent period.
The Group has not early adopted any new International Financial Reporting Standard or Interpretation.
Standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not yet effective up to the date of issuance of the Group financial statements are listed below: IAS 1 Financial Statement Presentation Presentation of items of Other Comprehensive Income, effective 1 July 2012 The amendments to IAS 1 change the grouping of items presented in other comprehensive income OCI.
"Items that could be reclassified or ""recycled"" to profit or loss at a future point in time for example, net gain on hedge of net investment, exchange differences on translation of foreign operations, net movements on cash flow hedges and net loss or gain on available-for-sale financial assets would be presented separately from items that will never be reclassified for example, actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit plans and revaluation of land and buildings."
The amendment affects presentation only and has no impact on the Group's financial position or performance.
The amendment becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012, and will therefore be applied in the Group's first annual report after becoming effective.
"60 TR Property Investment Trust TH TH THE GROU E GROU E GROUP C P C P COM OM OMP P PANY ANY ANY Notes to the Financial Statements continued IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IAS 32 These amendments clarify the meaning of ""currently has a legally enforceable right to set-off""."
The amendments also clarify the application of IAS 32 offsetting criteria to settlement systems such as central clearing house systems which apply gross settlement mechanisms that are not simultaneous.
These amendments are not expected to impact the Group's financial position or performance and become effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
IFRS 7 Disclosures - Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IFRS 7 These amendments require an entity to disclose information about rights to set-off and related arrangements for example collateral agreements.
The disclosures would provide users with information that is useful in evaluating the effect of netting arrangements on an entity's financial position.
The new disclosures are required for all recognised financial instruments that are set off in accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
The disclosures also apply to recognised financial instruments that are subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement, irrespective of whether they are set off in accordance with IAS 32.
These amendments will not impact the Group's financial position or performance and become effective fo annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement, effective 1 January 2013 IFRS 9 as issued reflects the first phase of the IASBs work on the replacement of IAS 39 and applies to classification and measurement of financial assets as defined in IAS 39.
"The standard was initially effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, but ""Amendments to IFRS 9 Mandatory Effective Date of IFRS 9 and Transition Disclosures"", issued in December 2011, moved the mandatory effective date to 1 January 2015."
In subsequent phases, the IASB will address hedge accounting and impairment of financial assets.
The adoption of the first phase of IFRS 9 will have an effect on the classification and measurement of the Group's financial assets, but will not have an impact on the classification and measurement of financial liabilities.
The Group will quantify the effect in conjunction with the other phases, when the final standard including all phases is issued.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements IFRS 10 replaces the portion of lAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements that address the accounting for consolidated financial statements.
It also includes the issues raised in SIC 12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
IFRS 10 establishes a single control model that applies to all entities including special purpose entities.
The changes introduced by IFRS 10 will require management to exercise significant judgment to determine which entities are controlled and therefore are required to be consolidated by a parent, compared with the requirements that were in IAS 27.
Based on the preliminary analyses performed, IFRS 10 is not expected to have any impact on the currently held investments in the Group.
This standard becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IFRS 12 includes all of the disclosures that were previously in IAS 27 related to consolidated financial statements, as well as all of the disclosures that were previously included in IAS 31 and IAS 28.
These disclosures relate to an entitys interests in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and structured entities.
A number of new disclosures are also required but have no impact on the Group's financial position or performance.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance under IFRS for all fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 does not change when an entity is required to use fair value, but rather provides guidance on how to measure fair value under IFRS when fair value is required or permitted.
The Group is currently assessing the impact that this standard will have on the financial position and performance, but based on the preliminary analyses, no material impact is expected, although additional disclosures will be required.
This standard becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 2013.
