THE GROUP COMPANY General Shareholder Information Release of Results Benchmark The half year results are announced in late November.
Details of the benchmark is given in the Statement of The full year results are announced in late May.
Investment Objective and Policy on page 2 of this Report and Accounts.
The benchmark index is published daily and Annual General Meeting can be found on Bloomberg: The AGM is held in London in July.
FTSE EPRA NAREIT Developed Europe Capped Net Total Dividend Payment Dates Return Index in Sterling Dividends are usually paid on the Ordinary shares Bloomberg: TR0RAG Index as follows: Interim: January Internet Final: August Details of the market price and Net Asset Value of the Ordinary shares can be found on the Company's website Dividend Payments at www.
Dividends can be paid to shareholders by means of BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Services : mandate Shareholders who hold their shares in certificated form forms for this purpose are available from the Registrar.
can check their holdings with the Registrar, Computershare Alternatively, shareholders can write to the Registrar the Investor Services PLC, via www.
address is given on page 96 of this report to give their Shareholders can also sign up to the DRIP through the instructions: these must include the bank account number, investor centre.
Please note that to gain access to your the bank account title and the sort code of the bank to details on the Computershare site you will need the which payments are to be made.
"holder reference number stated on the top left hand corner of your share certificate Dividend Re-investment Plan ""DRIP"" TR Property Investment Trust plc now offers shareholders Disability Act the opportunity to purchase further shares in the company Copies of this Report and Accounts and other documents through the DRIP."
DRIP forms may be obtained from issued by the Company are available from the Company Computershare Investor Services PLC through their secure Secretary.
If needed, copies can be made available in a website www.
co. uk, or by phoning 0870 variety of formats, including Braille, audio tape or larger 707 1694.
Charges do apply: dealing commission of 0.5% type as appropriate.
Government stamp duty of 0.5% also applies.
You can contact the Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, which has installed textphones to allow Share Price Listings speech and hearing impaired people who have their own The market prices of the Companys shares are published textphone to contact them directly, without the need for daily in The Financial Times.
Some of the information an intermediate operator, by dialling 0870 702 0005. is published in other leading newspapers.
The Financial Specially trained operators are available during normal Times also shows figures for the estimated Net Asset business hours to answer queries via this service.
Values and the discounts applicable.
Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk Share Price Information operator provided by the Royal National Institute for Deaf ISIN GB0009064097 People you should dial 18001 followed by the number SEDOL 0906409 you wish to dial.
L Datastream TRY 88 TR Property Investment Trust TH TH THE GROU E GROU E GROUP C P C P COM OM OMP P PANY ANY ANY General Shareholder Information continued Nominee Share Code Where notification has been provided in advance, the Company will arrange for copies of shareholder communications to be provided to the operators of nominee accounts.
Nominee investors may attend general meetings and speak at meetings when invited to do so by the Chairman.
CGT Base Cost Taxation of capital gains for shareholders who formerly held Sigma shares Upon a disposal of all or part of a shareholders holding of Ordinary shares, the impact on the shareholder's capital gains tax base cost of the conversion to Sigma shares in 2007 and the redesignation to Ordinary shares in 2012 should be considered.
In respect of the conversion to Sigma in 2007, agreement was reached with HM Revenue & Customs HMRC to base the apportionment of the capital gains tax base cost on the proportion of Ordinary shares that were converted by a shareholder into Sigma shares on 25 July 2007.
Therefore, if an Ordinary shareholder converted 20% of their existing Ordinary shares into Sigma shares on 25 July 2007, the capital gains tax base cost of the new Sigma shares acquired would be equal to 20% of the original capital gains tax base cost of the Ordinary shares that they held pre-conversion.
The base cost of their remaining holding of Ordinary shares would then be 80% of the original capital gains tax base cost of their Ordinary shares held pre-conversion.
As part of the re-designation of the Sigma shares into Ordinary shares in December 2012, a further agreement was reached with HMRC that a shreholders capital gains tax base cost in their new Ordinary shares should be equivalent to their capital gains base cost in the preexisting Sigma shares i. e. their capital gains base cost under the existing agreement if applicable.
If in doubt as to the consequences of this agreement with HMRC, shareholders should consult with their own professional advisors.
