TH TH THE GROU E GROU E GROUP C P C P COM OM OMP P PANY ANY ANY Notes to the Financial Statements as at 31 March 2013 1 Accounting policies The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 have been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, together with interpretations of the International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in effect, to the extent that they have been adopted by the European Union and as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Group and Company financial statements are expressed in Sterling, which is their functional and presentational currency.
Sterling is the functional currency because it is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except where otherwise indicated.
a Basis of consolidation The Group accounts consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries to 31 March 2013.
Companies, other than subsidiaries, in which the Group has an investment representing 20% or more of the voting rights and over which it exerts significant influence, are treated as associates.
The Group accounts include the appropriate share of the results and reserves of these companies based on the latest available accounts.
Other companies, in which the Group has an investment representing 20% or more of the voting rights but where the directors consider that the Group does not exert significant influence, are not treated as associates and are accounted for as investments.
b Income Dividends and Property Income Distributions PIDs receivable on equity shares are treated as revenue for the year on an exdividend basis.
Where no ex-dividend date is available, dividends receivable on or before the year end are treated as revenue for the year.
Provision is made for any dividends not expected to be received.
Where the Group has elected to receive these dividends in the form of additional shares rather than cash the amount of cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Differences between the value of shares received and the cash dividend foregone are recognised in the capital returns of the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The fixed returns on debt securities are recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on each such security.
Interest receivable from cash and short term deposits is accrued to the end of the year.
c Expenses All expenses and finance costs are accounted for on an accruals basis.
An analysis of retained earnings broken down into revenue and capital items is given in note 17.
In arriving at this breakdown, expenses have been presented as revenue items except as follows: expenses which are incidental to the acquisition or disposal of an investment: expenses are presented as capital where a connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of the investments can be demonstrated.
For the year ended 31 March 2013, one third of the management fees is deemed to relate to the administration of the Company and charged to revenue, the remainder are allocated 50% to revenue return and 50% to capital return.
The overall result is that two thirds of management fees are charged to revenue and one third to capital.
The allocation between the revenue and capital accounts reflects the Boards expectations of long term investment returns.
During the financial year the Board reviewed the history of the returns generated through the income and capital accounts and considered the expectation for the future.
As a result from 1st April 2013, 25% of all annual management fees will be charged to income return and 75% to capital return.
All performance fees are charged to capital return.
Between 1 April 2012 and 12 December 2012 expenses were allocated between the share classes as follows: management fees were charged separately to each share class: administration costs incurred specifically by a single share class were charged to that class: other corporate expenses were allocated to the share class in proportion to the share classes relative net asset values at the end of the previous accounting period.
From 13 December 2012 all expenses were allocated to the Ordinary share class.
