THE GROUP COMPANY Investing in TR Property Investment Trust plc Market Purchases Details are given below of two providers offering shares The shares of TR Property Investment Trust plc are listed in TR Property Investment Trust, but there are many and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
purchase shares through their stockbroker, bank or other financial intermediary.
Alliance Trust Savings Alliance Trust provide and administer a range of selfHolding shares in Certificated Form select investment plans, including tax-advantaged Investors may hold their investment in certificated form.
ISAs and SIPPs Self-Invested Pension Plans and Our registrars, Computershare operate a dealing service also Investment Plans and First Steps, an Investment which enables investors to buy and sell shares quickly Plan for Children.
For more information Alliance and easily online without a broker or the need to open a Trust can be contacted on 01382 573 737, or visit trading account.
Alternatively the Investor Centre allows www.
co. uk investors to manage portfolios quickly and securely, update details and view balances without annual charges.
Investors in TR Property through the ATS Investment Plan Further details are available by contacting Computershare and ISA receive all shareholder communications.
com instruction form is provided to facilitate voting at general meetings of the Company.
"TR Property Investment Trust plc now offers shareholders the opportunity to purchase further shares F&C Asset Management Limited ""F&C"" in the company through the Dividend Re-investment F&C offer a number of Private Investor Plans, Investment Plan ""DRIP"" through the registrar, Computershare."
Trust and Junior ISAs and Children's Investment Plans.
Shareholders can obtain further information on the DRIP Investments can be made as lump sums or through through their secure website www.
For more information see inside the back or by phoning 0870 707 1694.
F&C can be contacted on 0800 136 420, or visit note that to gain access to your details or register for the www.
com DRIP on the Computershare site you will need the holder reference number stated on the top left hand corner of Please remember that the value of your investments and your share certificate any income from them may go down as well as up.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
You Saving Schemes, ISAs and other plans may not get back the amount that you invest.
If you are in A number of banks and wealth management organisations any doubt as to the suitability of a plan or any investment provide Savings Schemes and ISAs through which UK available within a plan, please take professional advice.
clients can invest in TR Property Investment Trust plc.
Saving Schemes and ISAs transferred from ISA and savings scheme providers do charge dealing BNP Paribas and other fees for operating the accounts, and investors In 2012 BNP Paribas informed us that they were closing should read the Terms and Conditions provided by these down the part of their business which operated Savings companies and ensure that the charges best suit their Schemes and ISAs.
Investors were given the choice of planned investment profile.
Most schemes carry annual transferring their schemes to Alliance Trust Savings ATS charges but these vary between provider and product.
or a provider of their own choice or to close their accounts Where dealing charges apply, in some cases these are and sell the holdings.
applied as a percentage of funds invested and others as a flat charge.
The optimum way to hold the shares will be For investors who elected to transfer their plans to ATS, different for each investor depending upon the frequency any questions regarding their account should be directed and size of investments to be made.
90 TR Property Investment Trust TH TH THE GROU E GROU E GROUP C P C P COM OM OMP P PANY ANY ANY Investing in TR Property Investment Trust plc continued For investors who did not respond to the letters from BNP Paribas, their accounts have automatically been transferred to ATS, please contact ATS on the above number with any questions.
Investors who opted to sell their shares or move to another account provider may contact BNP with any questions by post at the following address: BNP Paribas Securities Services, Block C, Western House, Lynch Wood Business Park, Peterborough PE2 6BP TR Property Investment Trust 91
