TH TH THE GROU E GROU E GROUP C P C P COM OM OMP P PANY ANY ANY Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of 12 THAT TR Property Investment Trust plc will be held at 12 noon on a subject to the passing of Resolution 11 set out Tuesday 23 July 2013 at the Royal Automobile Club, 89 91 above the directors be empowered pursuant to Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS for the purpose of transacting Section 570 and Section 573 of the Act to allot the following business: equity securities as defined in Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following Resolutions, Resolution 11 above and or to sell shares held by the of which Resolutions 1 to 11 will be proposed as Ordinary Company as treasury shares for cash as if Section Resolutions and Resolutions 12 and 13 shall be proposed as 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, Special Resolutions.
provided that this power shall be limited to: 1 To receive the Report of the Directors and the Audited i the allotment of equity securities and sale of Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2013. treasury shares for cash in connection with an offer of, or invitation to apply for, equity securities: 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2013. aa t o shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing 3 To declare a final dividend of 4.35 pence per Ordinary share.
holdings: and 4 To re-elect Simon Marrison as a director.
bb t o holders of other equity securities, as required by the rights of those securities, or 5 To re-elect David Watson as a director.
as the Board otherwise considers necessary, and so that the Board may impose any limits 6 To re-elect Hugh Seaborn as a director.
or restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate 7 To re-elect Caroline Burton as a director.
to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory 8 To elect Suzie Procter as a director.
or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and 9 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the Company.
ii in the case of the authority granted under 10 T o authorise the directors to determine the remuneration Resolution 11 and or in the case of any sale of the auditors.
of treasury shares for cash, to the allotment otherwise than under paragraph i above 11 THAT the directors be generally and unconditionally of equity securities or sale of treasury shares authorised pursuant to and in accordance to Section 551 up to a nominal amount of 3,970,012 being of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the approximately 5% of the total issued share capital powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and of the Company as at the latest practicable date to grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security prior to publication of the notice of meeting, into, shares in the Company up to a nominal value of 26,202,080 being approximately 33% of the total issued b t he power given by this resolution shall expire upon share capital of the Company as at the latest practicable date the expiry of the authority conferred by Resolution prior to publication of the notice of the meeting provided 11 above, save that the Company shall be entitled to that this authority shall expire at the date of the next Annual make offers or agreements before the expiry of such General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, at the close power which would or might require equity securities of business on 23 October 2014, save that the Company to be allotted after such expiry and the directors shall shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the be entitled to allot equity securities pursuant to any expiry of this authority which would or might require shares such offer or agreement as if the power conferred to be allotted or rights to be granted after such expiry and hereby had not expired.
the directors shall be entitled to allot shares and grant rights pursuant to any such offers or agreements as if this authority had not expired.
TR Property Investment Trust 81 THE GROUP COMPANY Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 13.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and c the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 be paid for an Ordinary share shall be 25 pence, being of the Act to make market purchases within the meaning the nominal value per Ordinary share: of Section 693 4 of the Act of Ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the capital of the Company on such terms and d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the in such manner as the directors may from time to time conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the determine provided that: Company in 2014, save that the Company shall be entitled to enter into a contract to purchase Ordinary a the maximum number of Ordinary shares hereby shares which will, or may, be completed or executed authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the wholly or partly after the power expires and the Companys Ordinary shares in issue at the date of the Company may purchase Ordinary shares pursuant to Annual General Meeting equivalent to 47,608,386 such contract as if the power conferred hereby had Ordinary shares of 25 pence each at X June 2013, the not expired.
date of this Notice of Annual General Meeting : b the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may Registered Office: be paid for any such share shall not be more than the Registered in England No: 84492 higher of: 1112 Hanover Street London i 105% of the average of the middle market W1S 1QY quotations for an Ordinary share as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the By Order of the Board five business days immediately preceding the date on which the Company agrees to buy the shares For and on behalf of concerned: and Capita Company Secretarial Services Secretary ii the higher of the price of the last independent 3 June 2013 trade and the highest current independent bid for an Ordinary share in the Company on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out at the relevant time.
82 TR Property Investment Trust D WH ITE H ALL A O U R S TR E E T R C H ARIN G C R O AI R S T S R E G R E E K S T fide AN S T R E ET G E N T S T S R R R ND N UP E T S T OX E O WAR DO U R S TR E E T E E T WH IT C O MB S TR E E T S AC K VI LLE S T S T WAR D O DU K E ST B U R Y S T MAR LB O R O UG H R OAD R E G E NT ST E ET ER D SH WOO S T S AVI LE R OW ST JAME S S ST R E E T GT WI N DMILL S T H AY MAR KE T LE XI NG TO N S T AR LI NG TO N S TR E E T NEW BO N D S TR E E T OL D B OND S TR EE T C AR NAB Y S T C I R VI NG S T I Y Q S T T S S R U E P L DOWN I NG S T S S U O K H S C S fide N MAN S T O TH TH THE GROU E GROU E GROUP C P C P COM OM OMP P PANY ANY ANY Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 2 In order to be able to attend and vote at the AGM or any Directions Pall Mall Clubhouse adjourned meeting, and also for the purpose of calculating how many votes a person may cast a person must have his her name entered on the Register of Members of the Company by 6.00 pm on 21 July 2013 or 6.00 pm on the date 2 days before any adjourned meeting.
Changes to Leicester Square entries on the Register of Members after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Piccadilly 3 Shareholders should note that it is possible that, pursuant Circus Royal to requests made by shareholders of the Company under Academy National of Arts Gallery Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company Nelsons may be required to publish on a website a statement setting Column out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct Green of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or ii any Park circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
GREEN ST JAMESS PARK PARK The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time The Royal Automobile Club has a dress code: Jacket and Tie.
when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting statement that the Company has been required under Section 1 Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more 4 Any corporation which is a member of the Company can than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting appoint one or more corporate representatives who may AGM provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
To appoint more than one proxy, the proxy form 5 The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose should be photocopied and the name of the proxy to be shares are held on their behalf by another person and who appointed indicated on each proxy form together with the have been nominated to receive communication from the number of shares that such proxy is appointed in respect of.
Company in accordance with Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing may have a right under an agreement with the registered a proxy must be returned by post, by courier or by hand to shareholder who holds shares on their behalf to be appointed the Companys Registrars, Computershare Investor Services or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY, or if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish alternatively, by going to www.
com to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement and following the instructions provided.
All proxies must be to given instructions to the person holding the shares as to appointed by no later than 48 hours before the time of the the exercise of voting rights.
The return of a completed proxy form or other such instrument will not prevent a shareholder attending the AGM and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
TR Property Investment Trust 83 L R A C S TR E T E T L R E G I E A R S D T N S D G G P A E I C C N L L O T A S G MADD OX N I F LE IC I L L R A U G ER R AR D S T B R B RO ADWIC K STR EE T T O R ANG E J S S S T AME PANTO N S T S Q P IC C AD I LY K I NG S TR E E T O LD C O MPT O N S TR E E T S T JAM E S S P LAC E PALL MALL E S R Y D R T S Q UAR E E JERMY N S TRE E T C H AR LE S I I S TR E E T L L U E A N P M B E AK STR E E T A E S T E R C R AN B O U R N S T R E E T LL E THE MALL V A Y R U B S BRE WE R ST R EET E T F A S T R AN D S TR E E T H S H AF TE S B UR Y AV U E N E S CO ND U IT S TR EE T M ON MO UT H S T S T MAR TI ST MARTINS LANE NS P L THE GROUP COMPANY Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 6 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service question be answered.
may do so for the AGM to be held on 23 July 2013 and any 8 A copy of this notice, and other information required by adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other at www.
CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider should refer to their 9 Members satisfying the thresholds in section 338 of the CREST sponsors or voting service provider s, who will be Companies Act 2006 may require the Company to give, able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the Annual General Meeting, notice of a resolution which In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by those members intend to move and which may properly means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message be moved at the Annual General Meeting.
A resolution may a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated properly be moved at the Annual General Meeting unless in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds i it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of specifications and must contain the information required any inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
constitution or otherwise : ii it is defamatory of any person: The message must be transmitted so as to be received by or iii it is frivolous or vexatious.
A request made pursuant the Companys agent, Computershare Investor Services PLC to this right may be in hard copy or electronic form, must CREST Participant ID: 3RA50, no later than 48 hours before identify the resolution of which notice is to be given, must the time appointed for the meeting.
For this purpose, the be authenticated by the person s making it and must be time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined received by the Company not later than six weeks before the by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST date of the Annual General Meeting.
Application Host from which the Companys agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner 10 Members satisfying the thresholds in section 338A of the prescribed by CREST.
Companies Act 2006 may request the Company to include in the business to be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsor any matter other than a proposed resolution which may or voting service provider should note that Euroclear UK & properly be included in the business at the Annual General Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in Meeting.
A matter may properly be included in the business CREST for any particular messages.
at the Annual General Meeting unless i it is defamatory of any person or ii it is frivolous or vexatious.
A request made Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply pursuant of this right may be in hard copy or electronic form, in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is must identify the matter to be included in the business, must the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or the request, must be authenticated by the person s making sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider, it and must be received by the Company not later than six to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider weeks before the date of the Annual General Meeting.
takes such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any 11 Biographical details of the directors are shown on page 32 particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where of the Annual Report & Accounts.
applicable, their CREST sponsor or voting service provider are referred in particular to those sections of the CREST Manual 12 As at 3 June 2013 being the latest practicable day prior to concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and publication of the notice of the meeting, the issued share timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy capital of the Company is 317,600,980 Ordinary shares of Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a 25p each.
Therefore, the total number of voting rights in the of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
7 Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask 13 The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, the questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any Management Engagement Committee and the Letters of such question relating to the business being dealt with at the Appointment for directors will be available for inspection for meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so at least 15 minutes prior to and during the Companys AGM.
would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the 14 You may not use any electronic address provided either in answer has already been given on a website in the form of an this Notice or any related documents to communicate for any answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests purposes other than those expressly stated.
