TH TH THE GROU E GROU E GROUP C P C P COM OM OMP P PANY ANY ANY Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting Resolutions 1, 2 and 3: Accounts, Directors aggregate nominal amount of 3,970,012.
This aggregate nominal Remuneration Report and Dividend amount represents approximately 5% of the total issued share These are the resolutions which deal with the presentation of the capital of the Company as at 3 June 2013, the latest practicable audited accounts, the approval of the Directors Remuneration date prior to publication of this Notice.
In respect of this aggregate Report and the declaration of the final dividend.
The vote to nominal amount, the directors confirm their intention to follow approve the remuneration report is advisory only and will not the provisions of the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles require the Company to alter any arrangements detailed in the regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling 3-year report should the resolution not be passed.
period where the Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% should not take place without prior consultation with shareholders.
Resolutions 4, 5, 6 and 7: Re-election of directors These resolutions deal with the re-election of Simon Marrison, The authority will expire at the earlier of close of business on 23 David Watson, Hugh Seaborn and Caroline Burton.
In accordance October 2014 and the conclusion of the annual general meeting with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors will retire of the Company held in 2014. on an annual basis and have confirmed that they will offer themselves for re-election.
Resolution 13: Authority to make Market Purchases of the Companys Ordinary shares A formal performance evaluation has been completed and your At the AGM held on 24 July 2012, a special resolution was Board has determined that each of the directors continues to be proposed and passed, giving the directors authority, until the effective and demonstrates their commitment to their role.
conclusion of the AGM in 2013, to make market purchases of the Companys own issued shares up to a maximum of 14.99% Resolution 8: Election of director of the issued share capital.
Resolution 8 deals with the election of Suzie Procter as director.
Under the Articles of Association, Suzie Procter is required to Your Board is proposing that they should be given renewed submit herself for election at the first AGM after her appointment: authority to purchase Ordinary shares in the market.
Your Board she hereby offers herself for election believes that to make such purchases in the market at appropriate times and prices is a suitable method of enhancing shareholder Resolutions 9 and 10: Auditors value.
The Company would, within guidelines set from time to These deal with the re-appointment of the auditors, Ernst & time by the Board, make either a single purchase or a series of Young LLP, and the authorisation for the directors to determine purchases, when market conditions are suitable, with the aim of their remuneration.
maximising the benefits to shareholders.
Resolution 11: Allotment of share capital Where purchases are made at prices below the prevailing Net Our Board considers it appropriate that an authority be granted Asset Value per share, this will enhance the Net Asset Value for to allot shares in the capital of the Company up to a maximum the remaining shareholders.
It is therefore intended that purchases nominal amount of 26,202,080 representing approximately would only be made at prices below Net Asset Value.
Your Board 33% of the Companys issued share capital as at 3 June 2013, considers that it will be most advantageous to shareholders for being the latest practical date prior to publication.
As at the date the Company to be able to make such purchases as and when of this notice the Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
it considers the timing to be favourable and therefore does not The directors have no present intention of exercising this authority propose to set a timetable for making any such purchases.
and would only expect to use the authority if shares could be issued at, or at a premium to, the NAV per share.
The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 the Regulations came into force on Resolution 12: Disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights 1 December 2003.
The Regulations enable companies in the This resolution would give the directors the authority to allot United Kingdom to hold in treasury any of their own shares they shares or sell any shares which the Company elects to hold have purchased with a view to possible resale at a future date, in treasury for cash without first offering them to existing rather than cancelling them.
If the Company does re-purchase any shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
of its shares, the directors do not currently intend to hold any of the shares re purchased in treasury.
The shares so re-purchased This authority would be limited to allotments or sales in will continue to be cancelled.
connection with pre-emptive offers and offers to holders of other equity securities if required by the rights of those shares or as the board otherwise considers necessary, or otherwise up to an TR Property Investment Trust 85 THE GROUP COMPANY Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting continued The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority limit the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for any such share.
It shall not be more than the higher of: i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary share as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the Company agrees to buy shares concerned: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid for an Ordinary share in the Company on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
The minimum price to be paid will be 25p per Ordinary share being the nominal value.
The Listing Rules also limit a listed company to purchases of shares representing up to 15% of its issued share capital in the market pursuant to a general authority such as this.
For this reason, the Company is limiting its authority to make such purchases to 14.99% of the Companys Ordinary shares in issue at the date of the AGM: this is equivalent to 47,608,386 Ordinary shares of 25p each nominal value 11,902,096.50 at 3 June 2013, the date of the Notice of the AGM.
The authority will last until the AGM of the Company to be held in 2014 or at any other general meeting.
