Report of the Director s Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate and operational structure Category of cost 2013 2012 2013 % of net 2012 % of net m assets m assets Other Expenses excluding investment management expenses 5.32 0.42 4.87 0.47 see note 5 on page 6 9 Less other non-recurring expenses and those relating to the 1.16 0.09 1.15 0.11 subsidiary whose expenses do not relate to the operation of the investment company.
Investment management base fees see note 4, page 68 4.58 0.36 3.38 0.33 Ongoing Charges Figure including investment managers base fees 8.74 0.69 7.10 0.69 Investment managers performance fees see note 4, page 68 5.490.43 2.93 0.28 Ongoing charges including performance fees 14.23 1.1 2 10.03 0.97 Portfolio transaction costs 1.890.
161.2 30.12 Relative out performance during the year valuing debt at par value 7.1% 2.0% excludes non-recurring portfolio transition costs of 0.
9m arising from the manager changes 2012: 0.04m.
Priorities for the year ahead Corporate and operational structure In 2014, the key priorities for Witan include: As described earlier page 8 Witan is an Investment Trust Investment.
Seek to build on the strong returns with a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange.
It achieved{for shareholders in 2013, setting an has a single, wholly owned, subsidiary, Witan Investment appropriate strategic asset allocation to re ect Services Limited WIS. changing{opportunities in the world economy.
Make use{of a range of active managers to deliver our Operational Management Arrangements strategic{objectives through a multi-manager structure.
In addition to the appointment of external investment Continue to deliver dividend growth ahead of in ation.
managers, Witan contracts with third parties for the Communication.
Communicate Witans distinct and supporting services it requires, including: active investment approach and achievements more BNP Paribas Securities Services SA BNPSS for global e ectively to existing and potential shareholders.
In custody, investment accounting and administration.
particular increase the focus on improving information for personal investors and financial advisers, where Frostrow Capital LLP for company secretarial services.
direct{meetings are less practicable.
International Financial Data Services IFDS Ltd. as the Regulatory change.
Complete the process savings plan administrators of Witan Wisdom and of authorisation under the AIFMD.
Specialist advisers are also used for media relations, Client service.
Provide excellent service to the corporate and individual clients of Witan Investment Services.
advertising and investment manager research.
The Company also takes specialist advice on regulatory compliance issues and, as required, procures legal, investment consulting, financial and tax advice.
As with investment management, the contracts governing the provision of these services are formulated with legal advice and stipulate clear objectives and guidelines for the level of service required.
Annual Report 2013 Witan Investment Trust plc 17 Strategic report Corporate and operational structure continued Premises and sta ng to seek appropriate business opportunities which can add Since November 2005 the Company has had a lease on o ce value for shareholders premises at 14 Queen Annes Gate, London SW1H 9AA, which from 2014 to provide an appropriate system of is also the Companys registered o ce.
investment and risk management to ful l its obligations as Witans AIFM under the AIFMD.
The Companys policy towards its employees is to attract and retain sta with the particular skills and expertise required WIS has two principal sources of income.
These are savings to manage the a airs of an investment trust company.
plan revenues and the executive management and marketing Details of the Companys remuneration policies and required fees paid by its corporate clients, Witan and Witan Paci c. disclosures are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report The main costs incurred by WIS are fees to the savings on page 44.
Employees and those who seek to work within schemes administrator IFDS, sta costs to provide the the Group are treated equally regardless of sex, marital services described above and professional advice to status, creed, colour, race or ethnic origin.
The Company has ensure that its regulatory and accounting obligations are six direct employees, four men and two women.
The Board properly satis ed.
currently consists of seven non-executive Directors five men and two women and the Chief Executive O cer, Andrew The savings plans provided for WIS clients are marketed Bell, who is an employee.
Given its outsourced model and under the Witan Wisdom and Jump Savings brands.
They small number of direct employees, the Group has no speci c currently have over 2 4,000 accounts with assets of some policies in respect of environmental or social and community 280 million invested.
During 2013, the account fees paid a airs.
by investors for Witan Wisdom accounts were reviewed, to ensure an equitable balance between administration fees Witan Investment Services WIS and transaction costs and to re ect changes in the savings market.
Details have been sent to account holders, with the Witan Investment Services Limited is a wholly owned changes taking e ect from April 2014. subsidiary of Witan Investment Trust plc.
It was established in March 2005 to provide investment savings accounts and marketing services and to give investment advice to Principal risks and uncertainties professional investors.
It is authorised and regulated by the Risks are inherent in investment and corporate management Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
but it is important that their nature and magnitude is understood, in order that risks, particularly those which the The principal activities of WIS have historically been to Company does not wish to take, can be identi ed and either provide executive management services to the Boards avoided or controlled.
The Company and its subsidiary of Witan Investment Trust plc Witan and Witan Paci c WIS has established a detailed framework of the key Investment Trust plc Witan Paci c, to communicate risks impinging on the business principally investment, information about the Companies to the market to increase operational, financial and regulatory, with associated investor interest in their shares and to operate cost-e ective policies and processes devised to mitigate or manage savings plans for investors to hold the shares.
This Risk Map is reviewed regularly by the Audit already noted, it is also expected to become the AIFM Committee and the Board and updated as necessary.
the AIFMD taking e ect from July 2014, additional rules are being introduced regarding the monitoring and management WISs operational objectives are: of business risks.
The Company expects to establish a Risk Committee within WIS in order to comply with the risk to provide a reliable and e cient investment savings management and reporting obligations of the AIFMD.
The platform for Witan and Witan Paci c investors guiding principles already in place watchfulness, proper to provide suitable advice to the Boards of its analysis, prudence and a clear system of risk management corporate clients will remain the same.
to reduce the net operating costs for Witan Investment Trust 18 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2013 Report of the Director s Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information The Groups key risks fall broadly under the following Operational categories: Many of the Groups financial systems are outsourced to third parties, principally BNPSS.
Disruption to the accounting, Market and investment portfolio risks payment systems or custody records operated by BNPSS Witan is set up to invest in UK and overseas equity markets could prevent the accurate reporting and monitoring of on behalf of its shareholders.
Equity exposure is unlikely to the Companys financial position.
Details of how the Board drop below 80%, in normal conditions.
Therefore a key risk monitors the services provided by its suppliers, and the key of investing in Witan is a general fall in equity prices.
Other elements designed to provide e ective internal control, are risks, as with any international equity portfolio, are the explained further in the Corporate Governance Statement.
overall investment portfolios exposure to country, currency, industrial sector, and stock speci c risks.
There are also risks Corporate governance associated with the performance of its investment managers.
The Board takes its own regulatory responsibilities very seriously and regularly reviews the main points of compliance The Board seeks to manage these risks through: against requirements.
appropriate asset allocation decisions, with a broadly diversi ed equity benchmark Details of the Companys compliance with corporate governance best practice are set out in the Corporate regular reviews of the competence of our fund managers Governance Statement on pages 32 to 41.
The Board monitoring the global economic, geo-political and stock conducts an annual internal assessment of the e ectiveness market outlook of its governance processes in managing the Company and enabling it to evolve in response to future challenges.
There is the application of relevant policies on gearing and also a 3-yearly independent external review, the most recent liquidity of which was conducted in late 2013.
See page 36 for further manager diversi cation details.
delegating authority to the executive management team Operational and regulatory risks are regularly and extensively to manage risk actively, whether to preserve capital or reviewed by Witans Audit Committee.
WIS is subject to its capitalise on opportunities.
own operating rules and regulations and is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
From 2014, WIS is During the year Witans Chief Executive O cer CEO, expected to become the AIFM for Witan, which will entail it Andrew Bell, managed the overall business and the becoming more closely involved in a wide range of Witans investment portfolio in accordance with limits and operations.
Ahead of this development, Witan and WIS are in restrictions determined by the Board.
The Board regularly the process of adapting the internal governance structure for reviews the matters delegated to Executive management, review of the relevant risks and control framework.
on which the CEO reports at each Board meeting.
The Board also regularly reviews investment strategy and performance, Operationally the multi-manager structure is robust, as supported by comprehensive management information the investment managers, the custodian and the fund including investment performance data and financial reports.
accountants keep their own records which are regularly reconciled.
Management monitors the activities of all third parties and reports any signi cant issues to the Board.
Annual Report 2013 Witan Investment Trust plc 19 Strategic report Corporate and operational structure continued Accounting, legal and regulatory As noted in the Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement, In order to qualify as an investment trust the Company must the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Directive became comply with sections 1158-59 of the Corporation law in the UK in July 2013.
The Company is reviewing its Tax Act 2010 CTA.
A breach of these sections could systems and procedures to ensure that it will be fully result in the Company losing investment trust status and, compliant with the Directive ahead of the deadline of as a consequence, capital gains realised within the July {2014.
It remains the Companys policy to meet best Companys portfolio would be subject to Corporation Tax.
practice in complying with all{applicable regulations.
The criteria are monitored by the CEO and reviewed at each Board meeting.
The Company also carefully and regularly Going concern monitors compliance with the accounting rules a ecting The assets of the Company consist mainly of securities that investment trusts.
are readily realisable and, accordingly, the Company has adequate financial resources to continue in operational The Company is required to comply with the provisions of the existence for the foreseeable future.
Therefore, the directors Companies Act 2006 Companies Act, and the Company believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going must also comply with the UK Listing Authoritys Listing concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In Rules and Disclosure Rules UKLA Rules.
A breach of the reviewing the position as at the date of this report, the Board Companies Act could result in the Company and or the has considered the guidance on this matter issued by the directors being ned or becoming the subject of criminal Financial Reporting Council.
See also note 16 on page 64. proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Rules could result in the suspension of the Companys shares which would in turn lead Approval to a breach of the provisions of the CTA.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 11 March 2014 and is signed on its behalf by: T hese legal and regulatory requirements o er signi cant protection for shareholders.
The Board relies on the CEO, the Harry Henderson Andrew Bell Company Secretary and the Groups professional advisers to Chairman Chief Executive ensure compliance with all applicable rules.
WIS is regulated 11 March 2014 by the Financial Conduct Authority for the marketing and administration of savings plans and the provision of investment advice to professional clients.
It will also assume additional responsibilities as the AIFM for Witan in 2014.
20 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2013
