Directors remuneration report continued Notes: was introduced in 2011 and paid, for the first time, in May 2013 following shareholder approval of the terms of the 1.
Performance measures Long-Term Bonus at the Annual General Meeting, in respect Mr Bells service agreement, as amended, provides that he is of the three financial years ended 31 December 2012. eligible to receive a bonus of up to 100% of his basic salary.
The cash bonus arrangement consists of three separate 2.
Legacy plans elements as set out below: The Committee reserves the right to make remuneration payments and payments for loss of office that are not in line i Discretionary bonus with the policy set out above i where the terms of such a Each year Mr Bell is eligible to receive, at the absolute payment were agreed before the policy came into effect or discretion of the Committee, a cash bonus of up to 20% of at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of his basic annual salary.
The Committee has determined a the Company and ii in the opinion of the Committee, such number of criteria that it may take into account, including a payment is not in consideration of the individual becoming the management and administration of the Company and a director of the Company.
For these purposes, payments reporting to the Board, shareholders and other stakeholders, include the Committee satisfying awards of variable on which to judge his performance.
Differences in the Companys remuneration policy Each year Mr Bell is eligible to receive an additional cash for directors as compared to employees bonus of up to 30% of his basic annual salary.
The bonus The only respect in which the remuneration policy for the will be determined by the Companys net asset value per executive director differs from that for employees is that the share total return performance over the previous financial executive directors remuneration is more heavily weighted year debt at par, excluding the effect of share buy-backs towards variable pay so that a greater proportion of his pay is relative to its benchmark.
Outperformance of the benchmark related to the Companys performance and the value created by 2.5% or more will generate a bonus of the full 30%.
bonus is payable if performance is in line with or below that of the benchmark.
Relative performance of between nil and Principles and approach to recruitment and internal 2.5% will generate a pro rata bonus.
The benchmark is a promotion of directors composite of 40% FTSE All-Share Index, 20% FTSE All-World Non-executive directors North America Index, 20% FTSE All-World Europe ex UK 1 Remuneration of non-executive directors should Index and 20% FTSE All-World Asia Pacific Index, all on a reflect the specific circumstances of the Company and total return basis.
the duties and responsibilities of the non-executive directors.
It should provide appropriate compensation iii Threeyear performance bonus the Long-Term for the experience and time committed to the proper Bonus oversight of the affairs of the Company.
Each year Mr Bell is eligible to receive a Long-Term Bonus of up to 50% of his basic annual salary by reference to the 2 Non-executive directors are not eligible to receive Companys performance over the previous three financial bonuses, pension benefits, share options or other years.
The Long-Term Bonus will be determined by reference benefits.
to the Companys net asset value per share total return debt at par, excluding the effect of share buy-backs relative to 3 The total remuneration of the non-executive directors its benchmark, as set out in the Companys audited annual is determined by the provisions of the Companys accounts for the applicable financial years.
Outperformance Articles of Association and by shareholder resolution.
of the benchmark by an average of 3% per annum or more will generate a bonus of the full 50%.
No bonus is payable if 4 The basic non-executive directors fee will be paid performance is in line with or below that of the benchmark.
to each non-executive director with a higher fee per Relative performance of between nil and 3% per annum will annum for the Chairman of the Company.
An additional generate a pro rata bonus.
fee per annum will be paid to the Chairman of each of the Audit and Remuneration and Nomination The Long-Term Bonus will be halved if, despite Committees and to the Chairman of any other outperformance of the benchmark over the relevant three Committees that the Company forms: and to the Senior financial years, the Companys net asset value total return Independent Director.
per share is negative over that period.
The Long-Term Bonus 52 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2013
