Report of the Director s Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Witan Wisdom and Jump How to invest to it.
It currently has an annual subscription limit of 3,720 There is a variety of ways to invest in Witan Investment Trust for the 2013 14 tax year, which will increase to 3, 840 for plc.
Naturally, Witans shares can be traded through any UK the 2014 15 tax year.
You can open a Jump Junior ISA with a stockbroker.
Advisers who wish to purchase Witan for their minimum lump sum investment of 250 or 50 per month clients can also do so via a growing number of platforms that or quarter.
offer investment trusts including Ascentric, Alliance Trust Savings, Nucleus, Raymond James, Seven IM and Transact.
Jump Child Trust Fund Like the Junior ISA, the Child Trust Witan is also available for investment through the two Fund CTF is a tax efficient savings vehicle with an annual savings schemes managed by Witan Investment Services limit of 3,720 each year measured by the childs birthday, Witan Wisdom and Jump Savings.
which will increase to 3,840 from 6 April 2014.
Each child born in the UK from 1 September 2002 up to and including Witan Wisdom 2 January 2012 was eligible for a CTF.
You can transfer Shareholders who hold their investment via the Witan existing CTFs to Jump subject to a minimum transfer value Wisdom product have already been notified that from of 1,000.
6 April 2014 we will be changing the charging structure of the savings scheme.
From 6 April 2014, there will be a single Jump Savings Plan the Jump Savings Plan offers greater flat annual fee of 30 VAT for both the Witan Wisdom Share flexibility than the Junior ISA or Child Trust Fund in terms Plan and ISA.
There will be no charge other than government of the limits, access and control of the investment.
It can stamp duty, for regular savings or dividend reinvestment.
also be opened by grandparents, relatives and other family Lump sum dealing will be charged at a flat rate of 15. friends.
You can open a Jump Savings Plan with a lump sum investment of 250 or 50 per month or quarter.
Witan Wisdom offers two different savings wrappers: n. b.
With a flat rate annual fee of 30 VAT for Jump, the cost The Witan Wisdom ISA is a stocks and shares ISA that is high for the minimum subscription level.
Investors should enables investors to buy Witan shares within a tax efficient consider if this is suitable for them if they do not plan to add wrapper.
Investors have an annual ISA allowance of up to the account.
The minimum lump sum investment Brochures and applications for all of our products are available with Witan Wisdom ISA is 2,000, with the regular savings by calling 0800 082 81 80 or online via www.
Investors can also transfer If you would prefer to write to request further information, existing ISAs to Witan Wisdom while retaining their tax the address details can be found on page 88. efficient wrapper during and after transfer.
Witan Investment Trust plc is an equity investment.
Investors The Witan Wisdom Share Plan is our straightforward, loware reminded that past performance is not a guide to cost savings scheme.
The minimum lump sum investment future performance and the value of investments and the is 500, and the minimum regular contribution is 50 per income from them may go down as well as up and investors month or quarter.
Accounts can also may not get back the amount originally invested.
Please be held jointly, or designated to a child.
note that tax assumptions may change if the law changes, and the value of tax relief if any will depend upon your Jump Savings for children individual circumstances.
Investors should consult their Jump gives parents, grandparents and other adults the own tax advisers in order to understand any applicable tax chance to invest in Witan on behalf of a child.
Issued and approved by Witan Investment savings plan has a minimum lump sum investment set at Services Limited.
Witan Investment Services Limited of 250 and regular contributions can be made from 50 14 Queen Annes Gate, London SW1H 9AA is registered in per month or quarter.
Jump is available in three different England and Wales number 5272533.
Witan Investment wrappers: Services provides investment products and services and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Junior ISA Is a tax efficient wrapper available to children We may record telephone calls for our mutual protection and born before 1 September 2002 or after 3 January 2012, or to improve customer service.
those who did not qualify for a Child Trust Fund.
The account can only be opened by the parent though others can add Annual Report 2013 Witan Investment Trust plc 87
