228467 Finsbury WWH pp70-pp73 18 06 2013 10:42 Page 72 72Glossary Glossary Diluted Net Asset Value sold by an investor.
The share price is determined by the relationship between the demand and supply of the shares.
This is a method of calculating the net asset value NAV of a company that has issued, and has outstanding, convertible loan NAV Total Return stocks, warrants, subscription shares or options.
The calculation The theoretical total return on shareholders funds per share, assumes that the holders have exercised their right to convert or including the assumed 100 original investment at the subscribe, thus increasing the number of shares among which beginning of the period specified, reflecting the change in NAV the assets are divided.
assuming that dividends paid to shareholders were reinvested Discount or Premium at NAV at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
A way of measuring investment management performance of A description of the difference between the share price and the net asset value per share.
The size of the discount or premium is investment trusts which is not affected by movements in discounts premiums.
calculated by subtracting the share price from the net asset value per share and is usually expressed as a percentage % of Ongoing Charges the net asset value per share.
If the share price is higher than the Ongoing charges are calculated by taking the Companys net asset value per share the result is a premium.
If the share annualised ongoing charges, excluding performance fees and price is lower than the net asset value per share, the shares are exceptional items, and dividing by the average month end net trading at a discount.
asset value of the Company over the year.
Gearing The publishing of ongoing charges information rather than a Calculated using the Association of Investment Companies total expense ratio TER is advocated by the Association of definition.
Investment Companies who believe that using a single methodology to calculate ongoing charges will help reduce Total assets, less current liabilities before deducting any prior inconsistencies and allow investors and advisers to compare charges minus cash cash equivalents divided by Shareholders investment companies more easily with open-ended funds.
For years prior to 2013, the calculation was based on prior Overnight Indexed Swap OIS charges as a percentage of average net assets.
An interest rate swap that serves as a measure of investor expectations of an average effective overnight rate over the LIBOR-OIS Spread term of the swap.
This is the difference between LIBOR and the Overnight Indexed Swap OIS rates.
The spread between the two rates is considered Rehypothecation to be a measurement of health of the banking system.
The pledging to banks by securities brokers of the assets in a customers margin account used as collateral for a loan.
London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR The interest rate at which banks can borrow unsecured funds Total Assets from other banks in London wholesale money markets, as Total assets less current liabilities before deducting prior measured by daily surveys of the British Bankers Association.
Prior charges include all loans for investment purposes.
The published rate is a trimmed average of the rates obtained in the survey.
Treasury Shares Shares previously issued by a company that have been bought NAV per share pence back from shareholders to be held by the company for potential The value of the Companys assets, principally investments sale or cancellation at a later date.
Such shares are not capable made in other companies and cash being held, minus any of being voted and carry no rights to dividends.
The NAV is also described as shareholders funds per share.
The NAV is often expressed in pence per share after being divided by the number of shares which have been issued.
The NAV per share is unlikely to be the same as the share price which is the price at which the Companys shares can be bought or Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013
