228467 Finsbury WWH pp61-pp69 18 06 2013 10:41 Page 61 Explanatory Notes of Principal Changes to the Companys Articles of Association 61 Explanatory Notes of Principal Changes to the Companys Articles of Association Set out below is a summary of the main differences between the current and the proposed new Articles of Association the Articles.
The principal changes in the new Articles to be adopted at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 17 July 2013 relate to: Distribution of Capital Profits The Company is no longer required to include a prohibition on distributing capital profits in its Articles, following HM Governments reform of the tax and company law rules affecting investment trusts.
This prohibition has been removed in the proposed new Articles.
Please note that the Board is not currently proposing any change to the Companys dividend policy.
Authorised Share Capital The Companies Act 2006 abolished the requirement for Companies to have an authorised share capital, with effect from 1 October 2009.
The Company is therefore taking the opportunity to remove the upper limit of the Companys share capital included in its current Articles.
Deletion of Provisions Formerly in the Memorandum of Association Most of the provisions of the memorandum of association of a company incorporated before 1 October 2009 are now deemed to form part of its articles of association.
Of these the Company is only required to retain in its articles the statements that the liability of members is limited and that the companys registered office is situated in England and Wales.
The Company is therefore taking this opportunity to remove from its Articles of Association all those provisions formerly in its Memorandum of Association which it is not required to retain.
In particular the clause setting out the objects of the Company is to be removed so that the Companys objects will in future be wholly unrestricted.
Subscription Shares The Company is proposing to amend the provisions of the Articles that relate to the Subscription Shares issued in 2009.
The Directors understand that HM Revenue & Customs has recently indicated that where the Subscription Rights attached to the Subscription Shares have lapsed such shares must remain admitted to trading on a regulated market.
While the Company already has authority to redeem or transfer such shares without further authorisation, the Board is proposing an amendment to clarify the Articles so that on the date that the rights attaching to the Subscription Shares lapse, such Subscription Shares will be converted into Deferred Shares and the Company may then transfer such Deferred Shares to its nominee without making any payment to the holders thereof.
Following the transfer of Deferred Shares to its nominee, the Company may cancel and or purchase the Deferred Shares without making any payment to or obtaining the sanction of such nominee or any holder of Deferred Shares or for such consideration as the Directors may determine.
Following the cancellation or repurchase of such shares, they will cease to exist.
Other Changes Other technical changes have been made so that the Articles of Association conform to the Companies Act 2006 and other legislation applicable to companies, as currently in force and current best practice.
A copy of the current Articles and of the proposed new Articles marked up to show the proposed amendments will be available for inspection at the offices of Frostrow Capital LLP during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting, in each case until conclusion of the meeting.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013
