228467 Finsbury WWH pp70-pp73 18 06 2013 10:42 Page 70 70 How to Invest How to Invest Investment Platforms The Companys shares are traded openly on the London Stock Exchange and can be purchased through a stock broker or other financial intermediary.
The shares are available through savings plans including Investment Dealing Accounts, ISAs, Junior ISAs and SIPPs which facilitate both regular monthly investments and lump sum investments in the Companys shares.
There are a number of investment platforms that offer these facilities.
A list of some of them, that is not comprehensive nor constitutes any form of recommendation, can be found below: Alliance Trust Savings http: www.
co. uk Barclays Stockbrokers https: www.
aspx Club Finance http: www.
co. uk wps portal FundsDirect http: www.
asp Halifax Share Dealing http: www.
co. uk Sharedealing Hargreaves Lansdown http: www.
co. uk HSBC https: investments.
co. uk Interactive Investor http: www.
asp James Brearley http: www.
aspx Natwest Stockbrokers http: www.
ashx Saga Share Direct https: www.
co. uk The Share Centre https: www.
co. uk Saxo Capital Markets http: uk.
com TD Direct Investing http: www.
co. uk Capita Registrars Share Dealing Service A quick and easy share dealing service is available to existing shareholders through the Companys Registrar, Capita Registrars, to either buy or sell shares.
An online and telephone dealing facility provides an easy to access and simple to use service.
Type of trade Online Telephone Share certificates 1% of the value of the deal 1.5% of the value of the deal Minimum 21.00, max 125.00 Minimum 28.50, max 175.00 There is no need to pre-register and there are no complicated forms to fill in.
The online and telephone dealing service allows you to trade real time at a known price which will be given to you at the time you give your instruction.
To deal online or by telephone all you need is your surname, shareholder reference number, full postcode and your date of birth.
Your shareholder reference number can be found on your latest statement or certificate where it will appear as either a folio number or investor code.
Please have the appropriate documents to hand when you log on or call, as this information will be needed before you can buy or sell shares.
For further information on this service please contact: www.
com online dealing or 0871 664 0364 telephone dealing If calling from outside of the UK please dial 44 0 203 367 2686 Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras and may be recorded for training purposes.
Lines are open from 8.00 a. m. to 4.30 p. m. Monday to Friday.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013 228467 Finsbury WWH pp70-pp73 18 06 2013 10:42 Page 71 How to Invest 71 How to Invest continued The Share Dealing Service is provided by Capita IRG Trustees Limited which has issued and approved the preceding paragraphs.
Capita IRG Trustees Limited, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU is registered in England and Wales with number 2729260.
Capita IRG Trustees Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and is also authorised to conduct cross-border business in the EEA under the provisions of the EU Markets in Financial Investments Directive.
RISK WARNINGS Past performance is no guarantee of future performance.
The value of your investment and any income from it may go down as well as up and you may not get back the amount invested.
This is because the share price is determined by the changing conditions in the relevant stockmarkets in which the Company invests and by the supply and demand for the Companys shares.
As the shares in an investment trust are traded on a stockmarket, the share price will fluctuate in accordance with supply and demand and may not reflect the underlying net asset value of the shares: where the share price is less than the underlying value of the assets, the difference is known as the discount.
For these reasons, investors may not get back the original amount invested.
Although the Companys financial statements are denominated in sterling, it may invest in stocks and shares that are denominated in currencies other than sterling and to the extent they do so, they may be affected by movements in exchange rates.
As a result, the value of your investment may rise or fall with movements in exchange rates.
Investors should note that tax rates and reliefs may change at any time in the future.
The value of ISA and Junior ISA tax advantages will depend on personal circumstances.
The favourable tax treatment of ISAs and Junior ISAs may not be maintained.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013
