228467 Finsbury WWH pp19-pp29 18 06 2013 10:40 Page 29 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 29 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report they were initially presented on the website.
Visitors to the website and the financial statements in accordance with applicable need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom United Kingdom law and regulations.
governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
Company law in the United Kingdom requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under this The Directors, whose details can be found on page 18, each law the Directors have elected to prepare the financial confirm that to the best of their knowledge the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally statements, within the Annual Report, have been prepared in Accepted Accounting Practice, United Kingdom standards and accordance with applicable accounting standards, give a true and applicable law.
Under Company law the Directors must not fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and the profit for approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that the year ended 31 March 2013, and that the Chairmans Statement, they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Review of Investments and the Report of the Directors include a Company and the profit and loss of the Company for that period.
fair review of the information required by 4.1.
11R of the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and applied them On behalf of the Board consistently: Sir Martin Smith make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and Chairman prudent: and 6 June 2013 state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulation, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Report of the Directors, including a formal statement on Corporate Governance and a Directors Remuneration Report that comply with such law and regulations.
The financial statements are published on the Companys website website address: www.
com, which is a website maintained by the Manager.
The maintenance and integrity of the website is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of the Manager.
The work carried out by the Auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website and accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the financial statements since Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013
