228467 Finsbury WWH pp45-pp60 18 06 2013 10:41 Page 54 54 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 17.
RELATED PARTIES Details of the relationship between the Company and OrbiMed Capital LLC, the Companys Investment Manager, are disclosed in the Report of the Directors on page 22.
Samuel D. Isaly is a Director of the Company, as well as Managing Partner at OrbiMed Capital LLC.
During the year ended 31 March 2013, OrbiMed Capital LLC earned 2,815,000 in respect of Investment Management fees, of which 807,000 was outstanding at the year end.
In addition, performance fees of 341,000 were paid to OrbiMed Capital LLC during the year and 244,000 was payable at 31 March 2013.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS EXPOSURE TO RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES The Companys financial instruments comprise securities and other investments, derivative instruments, cash balances, loans, debtors and creditors that arise directly from its operations.
As an investment trust, the Company invests in equities and other investments for the long term so as to secure its investment objective as stated on pages 19 and 20.
In pursuing its investment objective, the Company is exposed to a variety of risks that could result in a reduction in the Companys net assets.
The main risks that the Company faces arising from its financial instruments are: i market risk including foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk ii liquidity risk iii credit risk These risks and the Directors approach to the management of them, are set out in the Report of Directors on pages 20 to 22 and have not changed from the previous accounting period.
The Investment Manager, in close co-operation with the Board of Directors, co-ordinates the Companys risk management.
i Market risk: The Companys portfolio is exposed to market price fluctuations which are monitored by the Investment Manager in pursuance of the investment objective.
Further information on the portfolio is set out on pages 14 to 16.
Management of risk: Derivative instruments are used to mitigate market price risk, the following option strategies or a combination of such have been used during the financial year: Buy calls: provides leveraged long exposure, facilitates exposure while minimising capital at risk.
Buy puts: provides leveraged protection, facilitates exposure while minimising capital at risk.
Sell puts: provides an effective entry price at which to add to an existing position, or provides an effective entry price at which to initiate a new position.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013
