228467 Finsbury WWH pp45-pp60 18 06 2013 10:41 Page 45 Notes to the Financial Statements 45 Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies, all of which have been applied consistently throughout the year in the preparation of these financial statements, are set out below: a Basis of Preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting standards UK GAAP and with the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts dated January 2009 the SORP.
The Companys financial statements are presented in sterling.
All values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except where otherwise indicated.
b Investments Held at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss Listed investments have been designated by the Board as held at fair value through profit or loss and accordingly are valued at fair value, deemed to be bid market prices.
Unquoted investments are designated by the Board as held at fair value through profit or loss, and are valued by the Directors using primary valuation techniques such as earnings multiples, option pricing models, discounted cash flow analysis and recent transactions.
Changes in the fair value of investments held at fair value through profit or loss and gains and losses on disposal are recognised in the Income Statement as gains or losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss.
Also included within this caption are transaction costs in relation to the purchase or sale of investments, including the difference between the purchase price of an investment and its bid price at the date of purchase.
All purchases and sales are accounted for on a trade date basis.
The Company has classified its financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss and the fair value of derivative financial instruments using a fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the fair value measurements.
The hierarchy has the following levels: Level 1 quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 inputs other than quoted prices included with Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
c Investment Income Dividends receivable on equity shares are recognised on the ex-dividend date.
Where no ex-dividend date is quoted, dividends are recognised when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
UK dividends are shown net of tax credits and foreign dividends are grossed up at the appropriate rate of withholding tax.
Income from fixed interest securities is recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective interest rate.
Deposit interest is accounted for on an accruals basis.
d Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses are charged through the revenue column of the Income Statement except as follows: i expenses which are incidental to the acquisition or disposal of an investment, categorised as fixed assets held at fair value through profit or loss are charged to the capital column of the Income Statement: and ii expenses are charged to the capital column of the Income Statement where a connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of the investments can be demonstrated.
In this respect the investment management and management fees have been charged to the Income Statement in line with the Boards expected long-term split of returns, in the form of capital gains and income, from the Companys portfolio.
As a result 5% of the investment management and management fees are charged to the revenue column of the Income Statement and 95% are charged to the capital column of the Income Statement.
Any performance fee accrued or paid is charged in full to the capital column of the Income Statement.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013
