228467 Finsbury WWH pp61-pp69 18 06 2013 10:41 Page 68 68 Notice of Separate Meeting of Subscription Shareholders Notice of Separate Meeting of Subscription Shareholders Notice is hereby given that a separate general meeting of holders of subscription shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company the Subscription Shares will be held at Carpenters Hall, Throgmorton Avenue, London EC2W 2JJ on Wednesday, 17 July 2013 at 12.20 p. m. or as soon as the Annual General Meeting of the Company convened for 12 noon on the same day has concluded or been adjourned, and if this separate class meeting is adjourned due to a lack of quorum notice is hereby given that any such adjourned meeting shall be held on 29 July 2013 at 11.00 a. m. at 25 Southampton Buildings, London WC2A 1AL, for the purpose of considering and, if though fit, passing the following resolution, which will be proposed as a special resolution namely: Adoption of New Articles of Association THAT the meeting of the holders of Subscription Shares hereby sanctions and consent to every alteration, modification, variation or abrogation of the special rights, privileges and restrictions attaching to the Subscription Shares to be effected by the passing and implementation of the special resolution of the Company numbered 16 in the notice of the Annual General Meeting of the Company contained in the annual report and accounts of the Company dated 6 June 2013, a copy of which has been initialled by the chairman of the meeting for the purpose of identification and produced to the meeting.
By order of the Board Registered Office: One Wood Street London EC2V 7WS Frostrow Capital LLP Company Secretary 6 June 2013 Notes 1.
Only holders of Subscription Shares are entitled to attend and vote at the meeting.
Holders of Ordinary Shares are not entitled to attend and vote at the meeting unless they also hold Subscription Shares.
A Subscription Shareholder may appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any of the rights of the Subscription Shareholder to attend and speak and vote in his place.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A Subscription Shareholder may appoint more than one proxy provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
If a Subscription Shareholder wishes to appoint more than one proxy and so requires additional proxy forms, the shareholder should contact the Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use by Subscription Shareholders.
To be valid, the form of proxy and any power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy thereof must be deposited with the Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars or by hand during normal business hours only to the same address not later than 12.20 a. m. on Monday, 15 July 2013 or, if the meeting is adjourned, 48 hours before the time of the adjourned meeting.
Alternatively, a proxy may be appointed online at www.
Completion and return of a form of proxy including online will not preclude a Subscription Shareholder from attending and voting at the meeting if he or she wishes to do so.
The Company has specified that only those Subscription Shareholders entered on the register of members of the Company as at 5.30 p. m. on 15 July 2013 or, if the meeting is adjourned, on the register of members 48 hours before the time of the adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of Subscription Shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the register of members after 5.30 p. m. on 15 July 2013 or, if the meeting is adjourned, after 48 hours before the time of the adjourned meeting will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting or adjourned meeting as the case may be.
Any person receiving a copy of this Notice as a person nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under section 146 Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person should note that the provisions in Notes 1 and 2 above concerning the appointment of a proxy or proxies to attend the meeting in place of a member, do not apply to a Nominated Person, as only shareholders have the right to appoint a proxy.
However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement between the Nominated Person and the member by whom he or she was nominated to be appointed, or to have someone else appointed, as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights at the meeting.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013 N o t i ce o f S e p a r a t e M e e t i n g o f S u b s c r i p t i o n S h a r e h o l d e r s 6 9 228467 Finsbury WWH pp61-pp69 18 06 2013 10:41 Page 69 Notice of Separate Meeting of Subscription Shareholders continued 5.
Terms used in this notice shall have the same meaning as in the annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 March 2013 unless otherwise defined.
As at 6 June 2013 the latest practicable date before the printing of this document the Companys total subscription share capital consisted of 2,340,166 Subscription Shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company with voting rights for this meeting.
On a poll, each Subscription Shareholder shall be entitled to one vote for every subscription share held by them.
Subscription Shareholders have the right to ask questions at the meeting in accordance with Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013
