CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 84 Directors responsibilities Directors responsibilities in respect of the The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and annual report and financial statements explain the Companys transactions and disclose with The directors are responsible for preparing the annual reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position report and financial statements in accordance with the of the Company and enable them to ensure that the Companies Jersey Law, 1991 the Law and applicable financial statements comply with the Law.
They are also laws and regulations.
The Law requires the Company to responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and prepare financial statements in accordance with generally hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and accepted accounting principles and Company has chosen detection of fraud and other irregularities.
to prepare the accounts in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the The directors are responsible for the maintenance and European Union.
integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the The directors must not approve the accounts unless they United Kingdom and Jersey governing the preparation are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the and dissemination of financial statements may differ from state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss of legislation in other jurisdictions.
the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires The directors are also responsible for the preparation that directors: of the Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance properly select and apply accounting policies: Statement.
These reports are contained within the annual present information, including accounting policies, in report and financial statements.
a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: The directors concluded that the annual report and financial statements, when taken as a whole, were provide additional disclosures when compliance with fair, balanced and understandable and provide the the specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to information necessary for shareholders to assess the enable users to understand the impact of particular Companys performance, business model and strategy.
transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: By order of the Board and Darren Le Masurier make an assessment of the Companys ability to Company Secretary continue as a going concern.
