CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 92 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 1.
General information Centamin plc the Company is a listed public company, incorporated in Jersey and operating through subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities operating in Egypt, Ethiopia, United Kingdom and Australia.
It is the parent company of the Group, comprising the Company and its subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities.
Registered office and principal place of business Centamin plc 2 Mulcaster Street St Helier, Jersey JE2 3NJ The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Directors Report and the Performance Review of the Annual Report.
Adoption of new and revised accounting standards In the current year, no new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted that have affected the amounts reported in these financial statements.
Standards not affecting the reported results nor the financial position The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements but, with the exception of the amendment to IFRS 1, may impact the accounting for future transactions and arrangements.
IFRS 1 amended Government Loans The amendment addresses how a first-time adopter would account for a government loan with a below-market rate of interest when transitioning to IFRS.
The amendments mirror the requirements for existing IFRS preparers in relation to the application of amendments made to IAS 20 Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance in relation to accounting for government loans.
IFRS 7 amended Disclosures Amends the disclosure requirements to require information about all Offsetting Financial Assets and recognised financial instruments that are set off.
The amendments also require Financial Liabilities disclosure of information about recognised financial instruments subject to enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements even if they are not set off under IAS 32.
The IASB believes that these disclosures will allow financial statement users to evaluate the effect or potential effect of netting arrangements, including rights of set-off associated with an entitys recognised financial assets and recognised financial liabilities, on the entitys financial position.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IFRS 13 establishes a single framework for measuring fair value when such measurements are required or permitted by other standards.
The adoption of IFRS 13 has not had any significant impact on the fair value measurements carried out by the Group and the amounts reported within the unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 13 requires specific disclosures on fair values, some of which replace existing disclosure requirements in other standards, including IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
IFRS 13 also results in an amendment to IAS 34 requiring that some of these disclosures relating to financial instruments are made in the unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements.
Improvements to IFRS 2009 2011 Aside from those items already identified above, the amendments made to standards under the 2009 2011 improvements to IFRS 2 have had no impact on the Group.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 93 At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements IAS 28 revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 2011 IAS 32 revised Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities IAS 36 revised Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets The directors are still considering the impact of adoption of new accounting standards and note that the main impacts upon the adoption of the new standards will be: IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and disclosures of Financial Instruments: IFRS 10 and 11 will introduce revised definitions of control and joint arrangements and the Group will consider the accounting for the Concession Agreement under this guidance.
The directors determination of the appropriate treatment under the new accounting standards is not expected to have a material impact in the year of adoption: and IFRS 12 will impact the disclosure of interests the Group has in other entities.
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a detailed review has been completed.
Summary of significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union EU IFRS and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
There are no changes in these accounting policies for the year ended 31 December 2013 except as disclosed in Note 3 below Changes in accounting policy.
Changes in accounting policy IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement The Group adopted IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement on its effective date of 1 January 2013.
IFRS 13 establishes a single framework for measuring fair value when such measurements are required or permitted by other standards.
The adoption of IFRS 13 has not had any significant impact on the fair value measurements carried out by the Group and the amounts reported within the Group financial statements.
A number of other amendments to accounting standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board also apply for the first time in 2013.
These do not have a significant impact on the accounting policies.
These financial statements are denominated in United States dollars, which is the functional currency of Centamin plc.
All companies in the Group use the United States dollar as their functional currency except for Sheba Exploration Holdings Limited and Sheba Exploration Limited that use the Great British pound.
All financial information presented in United States dollars has been rounded to the nearest thousand dollars, unless otherwise stated.
These financial statements have been prepared on the basis of historical cost, except for the revaluation of certain non-current assets and financial instruments.
Cost is based on the fair values of the consideration given in exchange for assets.
CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 94 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2013 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Principles of consolidation The consolidated financial statements are prepared by combining the financial statements of all the entities that comprise the consolidated entity, being the company the parent entity and its subsidiaries as defined in IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
Consistent accounting policies are employed in the preparation and presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements include the information and results of each subsidiary from the date on which the Company obtains control and until such time as the Company ceases to control such entity.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, all intercompany balances and transactions, and unrealised profits arising within the consolidated entity are eliminated in full.
Sukari Gold Mines SGM is jointly controlled by PGM and EMRA on a 50% equal basis.
For accounting purposes, SGM is wholly consolidated within the Centamin group of companies reflecting the substance and economic reality of the Concession Agreement see Note 23.
Pursuant to the Concession Agreement, PGM solely funds SGMs activities.
PGM is also entitled to recover the following costs and expenses payable from sales revenue excluding the royalty payable to ARE a all current operating expenses incurred and paid after the initial commercial production: b exploration costs, including those accumulated to the commencement of commercial production at the rate of 33.3% of total accumulated cost per annum : and c exploitation capital costs, including those accumulated prior to the commencement of commercial production at the rate of 33.3% of total accumulated cost per annum.
EMRA is entitled to a share of SGMs net production surplus defined as revenue less payment of the fixed royalty to ARE and recoverable costs.
Accordingly, no EMRA entitlement has been recognised to date.
Any payment made to EMRA pursuant to these provisions of the Concession Agreement will be recognised as a variable charge in the income statement.
Going concern These financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplate the realisation of assets and liquidation of liabilities during the normal course of operations.
During the year the operation of the mine was affected by two legal actions.
A detailed summary of the litigation is available in Note 20 of these financial statements.
The first of these followed from a decision taken by EGPC to charge international, not local subsidised prices for the supply of diesel fuel oil, and the second arose as a result of judgment of an Administrative Court 2 of first instance in relation to, amongst other matters, the Companys 160km exploitation lease.
In relation to the first decision, the Company remains confident that in the event that it is required to continue to pay international prices, the mine at Sukari will remain commercially viable.
Similarly, the Company remains confident that the appeal it has lodged in relation to the decision of the Administrative Court will ultimately be successful, although final resolution of it may take some time.
On 20 March 2013 the Supreme Administrative Court upheld the Companys application to suspend the decision until the merits of the Companys appeal are considered and ruled on, thus providing assurance that normal operations would be able to continue during this process.
In the unlikely event that the Group is unsuccessful in either or both of its legal actions, and that the operating activities are restricted to a reduced area, it is the directors belief that the Group will be able to continue as going concern.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Accounting policies Accounting policies are selected and applied in a manner which ensures that the resulting financial statements satisfy the concepts of relevance and reliability, thereby ensuring that the substance of the underlying transactions or other events is reported.
The following significant policies have been adopted in the preparation and presentation of these financial statements: Cash and cash equivalents Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits.
Cash equivalents are short-term, highly-liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 95 Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial liabilities and equity Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recognised at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL or other financial liabilities.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL Financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL when the financial liability is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL.
A financial liability is classified as held for trading if: it has been incurred principally for the purpose of repurchasing it in the near term: or on initial recognition it is part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short-term profit taking: or it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument.
A financial liability other than a financial liability held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise: or the financial liability forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Groups documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the grouping is provided internally on that basis: or it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement permits the entire combined contract asset or liability to be designated as at FVTPL.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on remeasurement recognised in profit or loss.
The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any interest paid on the financial liability and is included in the other gains and losses line item in the income statement.
Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Derecognition of financial liabilities The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Financial assets Financial assets are recognised and derecognised on trade date where the purchase or sale of a financial asset is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the financial asset within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through the profit or loss which are initially measured at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition, investments in subsidiaries are measured at cost in the Company financial statements.
Other financial assets are loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 96 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2013 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Accounting policies continued Financial assets continued Effective interest method The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset and of allocating interest income over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Available-for-sale financial assets AFS Listed shares and listed redeemable notes held by the Group that are traded in an active market are classified as being AFS and are stated at fair value.
The Group also has investments in unlisted shares that are not traded in an active market but that are classified as AFS financial assets and stated at fair value because the directors consider that fair value can be reliably measured.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in Note 26.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated profits with the exception of impairment losses, interest calculated using the effective interest method and foreign exchange gains and losses on monetary assets, which are recognised directly in profit or loss.
Where the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the investments revaluation reserve is reclassified to profit or loss.
Dividends on AFS equity instruments are recognised in profit or loss when the Groups right to receive the dividends is established.
The fair value of AFS monetary assets denominated in a foreign currency is determined in that foreign currency and translated at the spot rate at the balance sheet date.
The foreign exchange gains and losses that are recognised in profit or loss are determined based on the amortised cost of the monetary asset.
Other foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Loans and receivables Trade receivables, loans and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method less impairment.
Interest is recognised by applying the effective interest rate except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those at fair value through profit or loss, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each reporting date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impacted.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss.
With the exception of available-for-sale equity instruments, if, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent the carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised.
In respect of available-for-sale equity instruments, any subsequent increase in fair value after an impairment loss is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 97 Derecognition of financial assets The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
Employee benefits A liability is recognised for benefits accruing to employees in respect of wages and salaries, annual leave, long service leave and sick leave when it is probable that settlement will be required and they are capable of being measured reliably.
Liabilities recognised in respect of employee benefits expected to be settled within twelve months, are measured at their nominal values using the remuneration rate expected to apply at the time of settlement.
Liabilities recognised in respect of employee benefits which are not expected to be settled within twelve months are measured as the present value of the estimated future cash flows to be made by the consolidated entity in respect of services provided by employees up to reporting date.
Superannuation The Company contributes to, but does not participate in, compulsory superannuation funds on behalf of the employees and directors in respect of salaries and directors fees paid.
Contributions are charged against income as they are made.
Exploration, evaluation and development expenditure Exploration and evaluation expenditures in relation to each separate area of interest are recognised as an exploration and evaluation asset in the year in which they are incurred where the following conditions are satisfied: a the rights to tenure of the area of interest are current: and b at least one of the following conditions is also met: i the exploration and evaluation expenditures are expected to be recouped through successful development and exploration of the area of interest, or alternatively, by its sale: or ii exploration and evaluation activities in the area of interest have not at the reporting date reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence or otherwise of economically recoverable reserves, and active and significant operations in, or in relation to, the area of interest are continuing.
Exploration and evaluation assets are initially measured at cost and include acquisition of rights to explore, studies, exploration drilling, trenching and sampling and associated activities.
General and administrative costs are only included in the measurement of exploration and evaluation costs where they are related directly to operational activities in a particular area of interest.
Exploration and evaluation assets are assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances as defined in IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources suggest that the carrying amount of exploration and evaluation assets may exceed its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of the exploration and evaluation assets or the cash-generating unit s to which it has been allocated, being no larger than the relevant area of interest is estimated to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in previous years.
Where a decision is made to proceed with development in respect of a particular area of interest, the relevant exploration and evaluation asset is tested for impairment, reclassified to mine development properties, and then amortised over the life of the reserves associated with the area of interest once mining operations have commenced.
Mine development expenditure is recognised at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses.
When commercial production in an area of interest has commenced, the associated costs are amortised over the estimated economic life of the mine on a units of production basis.
Changes in factors such as estimates of proved and probable reserves that affect unit of production calculations are dealt with on a prospective basis.
CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 98 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2013 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Accounting policies continued Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each group entity are presented in its functional currency being the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each entity are expressed in United States dollars, which is the functional currency of the Group and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
All companies in the Group use the United States dollar as their functional currency except for Sheba Exploration Holdings Limited previously, Sheba Exploration UK plc and Sheba Exploration Limited that use the Great British pound.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each reporting date, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the reporting date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs including an appropriate portion of fixed and variable overhead expenses are assigned to inventory on hand by the method appropriate to each particular class of inventory, with the majority being valued on a weighted average cost basis.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs necessary to make the sale.
Ore stockpiles, gold in circuit and bullion are valued applying absorption costing.
Interests in joint ventures Jointly controlled entities Where the Group is a venturer and so has joint control in a jointly controlled entity, the Group recognises its share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses, line by line, in the consolidated financial statements.
SGM is wholly consolidated within the Centamin group of companies, reflecting the substance and economic reality of the Concession Agreement see Note 23.
Leased assets Leased assets are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the leased asset to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term, except where other systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed.
Contingent rentals arising under operating leases are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Property, plant and equipment PPE Plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Plant and equipment will include capitalised development expenditure.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the item as well as the estimated cost of abandonment.
In the event that settlement of all or part of the purchase consideration is deferred, cost is determined by discounting the amounts payable in the future to their present value as at the date of acquisition.
Depreciation is provided on plant and equipment.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis so as to write off the net cost or other revalued amount of each asset over its expected useful life to its estimated residual value.
The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation method are reviewed at the end of each annual financial period, with the effect of any changes recognised on a prospective basis.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 99 The following estimated useful lives are used in the calculation of depreciation: Plant and equipment 2 50 years Office equipment 3 7 years Mining equipment 2 13 years Land and buildings 4 20 years The gain or loss arising on the disposal or scrappage of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
Mine development properties Where mining of a mineral resource has commenced, the accumulated costs are transferred from exploration and evaluation assets to mine development properties.
Amortisation is first charged to new mine development ventures from the date of first commercial production.
Amortisation of mine properties is on a unit of production basis resulting in an amortisation charge proportional to the depletion of the proved and probable ore reserves.
The unit of production can be on a tonnes or an ounce depleted basis.
Capitalised underground development costs incurred to enable access to specific ore blocks or areas of the underground mine, and which only provide an economic benefit over the period of mining that ore block or area, are depreciated on a units of production basis, whereby the denominator is estimated ounces of gold in proven and probable reserves within that ore block or area where it is considered probable that those resources will be extracted economically.
Stripping activity assets The Group defers stripping costs incurred removal of mine waste materials which provide improved access to further quantities of material that will be mined in future periods.
The Group changed its accounting policy on stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine IFRIC 20 effective 1 January 2012.
IFRIC 20 provides clarity on how to account for and measure the removal of mine waste materials which provide access to mineral ore deposits.
This waste removal activity is known as stripping.
There can be two benefits accruing to the entity from the stripping activity: usable ore that can be used to produce inventory: and improved access to further quantities of material that will be mined in future periods.
The costs of stripping activity to be accounted for in accordance with the principles of IAS 2 Inventories to the extent that the benefit from the stripping activity is realised in the form of inventory produced.
The costs of stripping activity which provides a benefit in the form of improved access to ore is recognised as a non-current stripping activity asset where the following criteria are met: a it is probable that the future economic benefit improved access to the ore body associated with the stripping activity will flow to the entity: b the entity can identify the component of the ore body for which access has been improved: and c the costs relating to the stripping activity associated with that component can be measured reliably.
When the costs of the stripping activity asset and the inventory produced are not separately identifiable, production stripping costs are allocated between the inventory produced and the stripping activity asset by using an allocation basis that is based on a relevant production measure.
A stripping activity asset is accounted for as an addition to, or as an enhancement of, an existing asset and classified as tangible or intangible according to the nature of the existing asset of which it forms part.
A stripping activity asset is initially measured at cost and subsequently carried at cost or its revalued amount less depreciation or amortisation and impairment losses.
A stripping activity asset is depreciated or amortised on a systematic basis, over the expected useful life of the identified component of the ore body that becomes more accessible as a result of the stripping activity.
The stripping activity asset is depreciated using a units of production method based on the total ounces to be produced over the life of the component of the ore body.
Deferred stripping costs are included in stripping assets, within tangible assets.
These form part of the total investment in the relevant cash-generating unit, which is reviewed for impairment if events or a change in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Amortisation of deferred stripping costs is included in operating costs.
CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 100 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2013 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Accounting policies continued Impairment of assets other than exploration and evaluation and financial assets At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or less, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of an impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
Revenue Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods and services in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Sale of goods Revenue from the sale of mineral production is recognised when the Group has passed the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the mineral production to the buyer, it is probable that economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group, the sales price can be measured reliably, and the Group has no significant continuing involvement and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably.
This is when insurance risk has passed to the buyer and the goods have been collected at the agreed location.
Where the terms of the executed sales agreement allow for an adjustment to the sales price based on a survey of the mineral production by the buyer for instance an assay for gold content, recognition of the revenue from the sale of mineral production is based on the most recently determined estimate of product specifications.
Pre-production revenues Income derived by the entity prior to the date of commercial production is offset against the expenditure capitalised and carried in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
All revenues recognised after commencement of commercial production are recognised in accordance with the revenue policy stated above.
The commencement date of commercial production is determined when stable and sustained production capacity has been achieved.
Interest revenue Interest income is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Interest revenue is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Production royalty The Arab Republic of Egypt ARE is entitled to a royalty of 3% of net sales revenue as defined from the sale of gold and associated minerals from the Sukari Project.
This royalty is calculated and recognised on receipt of the final certificate of analysis document received from the refinery.
Due to its nature, this royalty is not recognised in cost of sales.
Business combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 101 Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisition-date fair value.
Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments see below.
All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRS.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity are not recognised.
Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups previously-held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date i. e. the date the Group attains control and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in profit or loss.
Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss, where such treatment would be appropriate if that interest were disposed of.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 2008 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that: deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits respectively: liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by the Group of an acquirees share-based payment awards are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment: and assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale.
Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that Standard.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period see below, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject to a maximum of one year.
Investments in associates An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting, except when the investment is classified as held for sale, in which case it is accounted for in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried in the consolidated balance sheet at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups interest in that associate which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Groups net investment in the associate are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the associate recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
Any excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Where a Group entity transacts with an associate of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant associate.
Share-based payments Equity-settled share-based payments with employees and others providing similar services are measured at the fair value of the equity instrument at grant date.
Fair value is measured by the use of the Black Scholes model.
Where share-based payments are subject to market conditions, fair value was measured by the use of a Monte-Carlo simulation.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed over the vesting period, based on the consolidated entitys estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 102 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2013 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Accounting policies continued Share-based payments continued Equity-settled share-based transactions with other parties are measured at the fair value of the goods or services received, except where the fair value cannot be estimated reliably, in which case they are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments granted, measured at the date the entity obtains the goods or the counterparty renders the service.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Further details on how the fair value of equity-settled share-based transactions has been determined can be found in Note 27.
At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss over the remaining vesting period, with corresponding adjustment to the equity-settled employee benefits reserve.
Issued capital Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where the Company or other members of the consolidated Group purchases the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid is deducted from the total shareholders equity of the Group and or of the Company as treasury shares until they are cancelled.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in shareholders equity of the Group and or the Company.
Taxation Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Current tax The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income because of items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which those deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences associated with such investments and interests are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits against which to utilise the benefits of the temporary differences and they are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Group expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 103 Special considerations In Australia, Centamin Egypt Limited and Pharaoh Gold Mines NL have elected to form a tax consolidated group and therefore are treated as a single entity for Australian income tax purposes.
Pharaoh Gold Mines NL has elected into the Branch Profits Exemption whereby foreign branch income will generally not be subject to Australian income tax.
In Egypt, Centamin has entered into a concession agreement that provides that the income generated by Sukari Gold Mining Companys activities is granted a long-term tax exemption from all taxes imposed in Egypt.
Restoration and rehabilitation A provision for restoration and rehabilitation is recognised when there is a present obligation as a result of exploration, development and production activities undertaken, it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and the amount of the provision can be measured reliably.
The estimated future obligations include the costs of dismantling and removal of facilities, restoration and monitoring of the affected areas.
The provision for future restoration costs is the best estimate of the present value of the expenditure required to settle the restoration obligation at the reporting date.
Future restoration costs are reviewed annually and any changes in the estimate are reflected in the present value of the restoration provision at each reporting date.
The initial estimate of the restoration and rehabilitation provision relating to exploration, development and mining production activities is capitalised into the cost of the related asset and amortised on the same basis as the related asset, unless the present obligation arises from the production of the inventory in the period, in which case the amount is included in the cost of production for the period.
Changes in the estimate of the provision of restoration and rehabilitation are treated in the same manner, except that the unwinding of the effect of discounting on the provision is recognised as a finance cost rather than being capitalised into the cost of the related asset.
Critical accounting judgments Critical judgments in applying the entitys accounting policies The following are the critical judgments that management has made in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: Management has discussed its critical accounting judgments and associated disclosures with the Companys Audit and Risk Committee.
Impairment of assets other than exploration and evaluation and financial assets IFRS requires management to test for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a finite lived asset may not be recoverable.
As a result of the decline in the gold price, the Group carried out an impairment test over the assets, other than exploration and evaluation and financial assets.
Impairment testing is an area involving management judgment, requiring assessment as to whether the carrying value of assets can be supported by the net present value of future cash flows derived from such assets using cash flow projections which have been discounted at an appropriate rate.
In calculating the net present value of the future cash flows, certain assumptions are required to be made in respect of highly uncertain matters including managements assessment of: forecast gold prices: discount rate: production volumes : reserves and resources report: and costs and recovery rates.
Each year, the Group prepares and approves a formal one year budget for its operations.
The Group then extended the data produced in the budget over the life of mine for inclusion in the value in use calculations.
The impairment test is highly sensitive to the gold price and an impairment would be required if the gold price falls below US$1,280 per ounce at a discount rate of 12%.
CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 104 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2013 4.
Critical accounting judgments continued Critical judgments in applying the entitys accounting policies continued Litigation The Group exercises judgment in measuring and recognising provisions and the exposures to contingent liabilities related to pending litigation, as well as other contingent liabilities see Note 20 to the financial statements.
Judgment is necessary in assessing the likelihood that a pending claim will succeed, or a liability will arise, and to quantify the possible range of the financial settlement.
The Group is currently a party to two legal actions both of which could affect its ability to operate the mine at Sukari in the manner in which it is currently operated and adversely affect its profitability.
The details of this litigation, which relate to 2 the loss of the Egyptian national subsidy for diesel fuel oil and the ability of the Group to operate outside the area of 3km determined by the Administrative Court of first instance to be the area of the Sukari exploitation lease, are given in Note 20 to the financial statements and in the most recently filed Annual Information Form AIF which is available on SEDAR at www.
Although it is possible to quantify the effects of the loss the national fuel subsidy, it is not currently 2 possible to quantify with sufficient precision the effect of restricting operations to an area of 3km.
Every action is being taken to contest these decisions, including the making of formal legal appeals and, although their resolution may take some time, management remain confident that a satisfactory outcome will ultimately be achieved.
In the meantime, however, the Group is continuing to pay international prices for diesel fuel oil.
With respect to the Administrative Court ruling, on 20 March 2013 the Supreme Administrative Court upheld the Companys application to suspend this decision until the merits of the Companys appeal are considered and ruled on, thus providing assurance that normal operations would be able to continue during this process.
In the unlikely event that the Group is unsuccessful in either or both of its legal actions, and that the operating activities are restricted to a reduced area, it is managements belief that the Group will be able to continue as going concern.
Recovery of capitalised exploration evaluation and development expenditure The Groups accounting policy for exploration and evaluation expenditure results in exploration and evaluation expenditure being capitalised for those projects where such expenditure is considered likely to be recoverable through future extraction activity or sale or where the exploration activities have not reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of reserves.
This policy requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions as to future events and circumstances, in particular whether the Group will proceed with development based on existence of reserves or whether an economically viable extraction operation can be established.
Such estimates and assumptions may change from period to period as new information becomes available.
If, subsequent to the exploration and evaluation expenditure being capitalised, a judgment is made that recovery of the expenditure is unlikely or the project is to be abandoned, the relevant capitalised amount will be written off to the income statement.
As described in Note 13 to the financial statements, management have taken the decision not to renew the Shehagne or Finarwa Winibo Werie Lehe and Saharti licences in respect of exploration rights held Sheba Explorations Holding Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Centamin plc, and have thus written off all expenditure incurred to date including the acquisition costs in relation to those licences amounting to US$6,712,752.
Revenue recognition Revenue from the sale of mineral production is recognised when the Group has passed the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the mineral production to the buyer, it is probable that economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group, the sales price can be measured reliably, and the Group has no significant continuing involvement and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably.
Going concern Under guidelines set out by the UK Financial Reporting Council FRC the directors of UK listed companies are required to consider whether the going concern basis is the appropriate basis of preparation of financial statements.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 105 Based on a detailed cash flow forecast prepared by management, in which any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which cash flow forecast is based, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Key assumptions under-pinning this forecast include: litigation as discussed in Note 20 to the financial statements: forecast gold price: production volumes: and costs and recovery rates.
These financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 have therefore been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplate the realisation of assets and liquidation of liabilities during the normal course of operations, in preparing the financial statements Accounting treatment of Sukari Gold Mines SGM SGM is wholly consolidated within the Centamin Group of companies, reflecting the substance and economic reality of the Concession Agreement see Note 23 to the financial statements.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The following are the key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year: Provision for restoration and rehabilitation costs The Group is required to decommission, rehabilitate and restore mines and processing sites at the end of their producing lives to a condition acceptable to the relevant authorities.
The provision has been calculated taking into account the estimated future obligations including the costs of dismantling and removal of facilities, restoration and monitoring of the affected areas.
Ore reserve estimates Estimates of recoverable quantities of reserves include assumptions on commodity prices, exchange rates, discount rates and production costs for future cash flows.
It also involves assessment and judgment of difficult geological models.
The economic, geological and technical factors used to estimate ore reserves may change from period to period.
Changes in ore reserves affect the carrying values of mine properties, property, plant and equipment, provision for rehabilitation assets and deferred taxes.
Ore reserves are integral to the amount of depreciation and amortisation charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income and the calculation of inventory.
Production forecasts from the underground mine at Sukari are partly based on estimates regarding future resource and reserve growth.
It is the opinion of management and directors that these estimates are both realistic and conservative, based on current information.
However, as the mine relies on continued deeper development and exploration drilling for further reserve definition, the life of this part of the mine remains limited and there is a risk that some or all of this growth will not materialise with a consequent negative impact on current production forecasts which affect the unit of production used in depreciation calculations.
Depreciation of capitalised underground mine development costs Depreciation of capitalised underground mine development costs at the Sukari mine is based on reserve estimates.
Management and directors believe that these estimates are both realistic and conservative, based on current information.
However, as the mine relies on continued deeper development and exploration drilling for further reserve definition, the estimated reserves may change with a consequent negative impact on the carrying value of capitalised underground mine development.
Depreciation of the Sukari plant Sukari plant, capitalised within plant and equipment, is depreciated on a straight-line basis over a 45 year economic life.
When determining the useful economic life of the plant, management has assumed that its exploration activities will lead to future reserves increases at the Sukari mine site which will extend its life beyond the current life of mine, which is 2029 based on current reserves.
Management have the option to extend the concession agreement by 30 years beyond its current expiry date of 2035.
CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 106 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2013 5.
Revenue An analysis of the Groups revenue for the year, from continuing operations, is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Gold sales 503,128 425,812 Silver sales 697 321 503,825 426,133 Finance income 690 898 504,515 427,031 6.
Profit before tax Profit for the year has been arrived at after crediting charging the following gains losses and expenses: 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Cost of sales Mine production costs 184,608 53,130 237,738 140,067 36,654 176,721 Movement in inventory 8,973 2,126 11,099 5,854 3,572 9,426 Depreciation and amortisation 50,798 50,798 35,601 36 35,637 226,433 51,004 277,437 169,814 33,118 202,932 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Finance income Interest received 690 898 Other operating costs Corporate compliance 3,188 2,956 Corporate consultants 793 772 Employee entitlements 118 141 Salary and wages 5,854 8,314 Travel and accommodation 1,205 956 Other administration expenses 278 1,887 Employee equity settled share-based payments 2,284 1,981 Fixed royalty attributable to the Egyptian government 15,074 12,769 Foreign exchange gain, net 9,621 5,170 Provision for restoration and rehabilitation unwinding of discount 563 263 1 Share of loss in associate 1,664 330 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 121 Lease payments 206 306 21,727 25,505 1 Share of loss in associate includes a US$1,414,000 Impairment of Exploration and Evaluation assets.
Refer to Note 14 for further details.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 107 Impairment of assets 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 1 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 12,911 2 Impairment of exploration and evaluation assets 6,503 19,414 1 Refer to Note 14 for further details.
2 Refer to Note 13 for further details.
31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 1 Employee benefit expense Short-term employee benefits 50,285 40,256 Long-term employee benefits 2 116 Post-employee benefits 10 21 Share-based payments 2,284 1,981 52,581 42,374 1 Included in employee benefit expense is an amount of US$8,703,736 2012: US$5,602,318 capitalised to property, plant and equipment and US$2,977,684 2012: US$2,183,300 capitalised to exploration and evaluation assets during the year.
Exceptional items The directors consider that items of income or expense which are material by virtue of their unusual, irregular or non-recurring nature should be disclosed separately if the consolidated financial statements are to fairly present the financial position and underlying business performance.
In order to allow a better understanding of the financial information presented within the consolidated financial statements, and specifically the Groups underlying business performance, the effect of exceptional items are shown below.
31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Included in cost of sales Mine production costs 53,130 36,654 Movement in inventory 2,126 3,572 Depreciation and amortisation 36 51,004 33,118 In January 2012 the Company received a letter from Chevron to the effect that Chevron would not be able to continue supplying Diesel Fuel Oil DFO to the mine at Sukari at local subsidised prices.
It is understood that the reason that this letter was issued was that Chevron had received a letter instructing it to do so from the Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation EGPC.
It is further understood that EGPC itself took the decision to issue this instruction because it had received legal advice from the Legal Advice Department of the Council of State an internal government advisory department that the companies operating in the gold mining sector in Egypt were not entitled to such subsidies.
In addition, the Company during the year received a demand from Chevron for the repayment of fuel subsidies received in the period from late 2009 through to January 2012, amounting to some US$60 million EG403 million.
The Group has taken detailed legal advice on this matter and, in particular, on the opinion given by Legal Advice Department of the Council of State and in consequence in June 2012 lodged an appeal against EGPCs decision in the Administrative Courts.
Again, the Group believes that its grounds for appeal are strong and that there is every prospect of success.
However, as a practical matter, and in order to ensure the continuation of supply, the Group has since January 2012 advanced funds to its fuel supplier, Chevron, based on the international price for diesel.
CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 108 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2013 6.
Profit before tax continued As at the date of the financial statements, no final decision had been taken by the courts regarding this matter.
Furthermore, the Group remains of the view that an instant move to international fuel prices is not a reasonable outcome and will look to recover funds advanced thus far should the court proceeding be concluded in its favour.
However, management recognises the practical difficulties associated with reclaiming funds from the government and for this reason has, fully provided against the prepayment of US$97.0 million, as an exceptional item, of which US$55.6 million was provided for during 2013 as follows: a a US$51.0 million increase in cost of sales: b a US$1.7 million increase in stores inventories: c a US$2.1 million increase in mining stockpiles and ore in circuit: and d a US$0.8 million increase in property, plant and equipment capital WIP.
This has resulted in a net decrease of US$51.0 million in the profit and loss.
31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Included in other operating costs Redomicile costs 564 The redomicile costs relate to the expenses incurred in moving the Group from Australia to Jersey by means of the Company becoming the holding company of the Group in 2011.
Tax Tax recognised in profit is summarised as follows: Tax expense 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Current tax Current tax expense in respect of the current year 10 Adjustments recognised in the current year in relation to the current tax in prior periods 444 10 444 Deferred tax Deferred tax expense relating to the origination and reversal of temporary differences Tax losses and temporary differences not recognised Total tax expense 10 444 Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 109 The tax expense for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as follows: 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Profit before income tax 183,969 198,594 Add: share of loss in associate 1,664 330 185,633 198,924 1 Tax expense calculated at 0% 2012: 0% of profit before tax Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible taxable in calculating taxable income: Non-deductible expenses Tax effect of income not taxable in determining taxable profit Tax losses and temporary differences not recognised Effect of tax different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 10 Adjustments recognised in the current year in relation to the current tax in prior periods 444 Tax expense for the year 10 444 1 The tax rate used in the above reconciliation is the corporate tax rate of 0% payable by Jersey corporate entities under the Jersey tax law 2012: 0%.
There has been no change in the underlying corporate tax rates when compared to the previous financial period.
31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Current tax liabilities Current tax payable Tax consolidation Relevance of tax consolidation to the consolidated entity Companies within the Groups wholly-owned Australian resident entities formed a tax-consolidated group with effect from 1 July 2003.
The head entity within the tax-consolidated Group is Centamin Egypt Limited.
The members of the tax-consolidated Group are identified at Note 21.
Nature of tax funding arrangements and tax sharing agreements Entities within the tax-consolidated Group have entered into a tax funding arrangement and a tax-sharing agreement with the head entity.
Under the terms of the tax-funding agreement, Centamin Egypt Limited and each of the entities in the tax-consolidated Group has agreed to pay a tax-equivalent payment to or from the head entity, based on the current tax liability or current tax asset of the entity.
Such amounts are reflected in amounts receivable from or payable to other entities in the tax-consolidated group.
The tax-sharing agreement entered into between members of the tax-consolidated Group provides for the determination of the allocation of income tax liabilities between the entities should the head entity default on its tax payment obligations.
No amounts have been recognised in the financial statements in respect of this agreement as payment of any amounts under the tax-sharing agreement is considered remote.
Segment reporting The Group is engaged in the business of exploration and mining of precious metals only, which represents a single operating segment.
The Board is the Groups chief operating decision maker within the meaning of IFRS 8.
CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 110 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2013 9.
Trade and other receivables 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Gold sales debtors 24,657 40,736 Other receivables 770 25,427 40,736 Trade and other receivables are classified as loans and receivables and are therefore measured at amortised cost.
The average age of the receivables is 18 days 2012: 35 days.
No interest is charged on the receivables.
There are no trade receivables past due and impaired at the reporting date, and thus no allowance for doubtful debts has been recognised.
Of the trade receivables balance, the gold sales debtor is all receivable from Johnson Matthey of Canada.
The amount due has been received subsequent to year end and was considered to be fully recoverable.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables is approximately equal to their fair value.
Inventories 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Mining stockpiles and ore in circuit 33,899 22,800 Stores 101,370 71,836 135,269 94,636 During the year US$372,045 2012: US$20,493 of inventory has been written off to cost of sales.
Prepayments 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Current Prepayments 1,678 466 Fuel prepayments 1,678 466 1 Movement in fuel prepayments Balance at the beginning of the year Fuel prepayment recognised 55,578 41,417 2 Less: provision charged to: Mine production costs see Note 6 53,130 36,654 Property, plant and equipment see Note 6 742 4,157 Inventories see Note 6 1,706 606 Balance at the end of the year 1 Refer to Note 6, Exceptional Items, for further details.
2 The cumulative fuel prepayment recognised and provision charged as at 31 December 2013 is as follows: Fuel prepayment recognised US$000 96,995 Provision charged to: Mine production costs US$000 89,784 Property, plant and equipment US$000 4,899 Inventories US$000 2,312 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Noncurrent 3 EMRA 18,950 18,950 3 With a view to demonstrating goodwill toward the Egyptian government, PGM made advance payments to EMRA which will be netted off against future Profit Share that becomes payable to EMRA.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 111 12.
The review did not lead to a recognition of an impairment loss.
The discount rate used in measuring value in use was 12% per annum and the assumed average gold price was US$1,342 per ounce.
No impairment was performed in 2012 as there was no indication of impairment.
CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 112 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2013 13.
Exploration and evaluation asset 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Balance at the beginning of the period 45,669 31,113 Expenditure for the period 20,683 14,556 Impairment of exploration and evaluation asset 6,503 Balance at the end of the period 59,849 45,669 The exploration and evaluation asset relates to the drilling, geological exploration and sampling of potential ore reserves.
During the prior year the Group acquired the exploration rights in Sheba Exploration Holdings Limited previously, Sheba Exploration UK plc for US$10.2 million in relation to the licences of Finarwa Winibo Werie Lehe and Saharti, granted until 29 November 2013, Shehagne, granted until 21 September 2013 and the Una Deriam, granted until 19 March 2014.
The Una Deriam licence is renewable for a period of one year, however, management has taken the decision not to renew the licences in respect of Finarwa Winibo and Shehagne and have thus written off all expenditure incurred to date including the acquisition costs in relation to those licences.
Availableforsale financial assets and interests in associates 14.1 Availableforsale financial assets 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Balance at the beginning of the period 5,613 1,831 Acquisitions 2,456 6,427 Disposals 822 Loss profit on foreign exchange movement 108 159 Loss on fair value of investment other comprehensive income 6,150 2,804 Balance at the end of the period 989 5,613 The available-for-sale financial asset at period end relates to a 12.62% 2012: 13.62% equity interest in Nyota Minerals Limited NYO, a listed public company.
During the year, management made the decision to sell its interest in Nyota and the financial asset has now been classed as a current asset.
As a result of the prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment in Nyota, an impairment loss has been recognised and the cumulative investments revaluation reserve balance within the accumulated profit reserve has been transferred to the Statement of Comprehensive Income as follows: 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Impairment loss being the transfer of unrealised loss from other comprehensive income 12,911 14.2 Interests in associates 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Balance at the beginning of the period 3,132 3,296 Acquisitions 500 166 Share of loss in associate see Note 6 1,664 330 Impairment in interest in associate 1,968 Balance at the end of the period 3,132 The interest in associate relates to the Groups 39.64% equity interest in Sahar Minerals Limited Sahar, of which 33% was acquired in July 2011, 3% acquired in December 2012, and a further 4% acquired in September 2013.
The associate holds exploration rights and continues to explore, however, management has taken the decision to write off the costs associated with the interest held in Sahar as a result of managements intention to put all assets into hibernation as a result of funding requirements.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 113 15.
Trade and other payables 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Trade payables 59,996 21,121 Other creditors and accruals 18,106 33,485 78,102 54,606 Trade payables principally comprise the amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 69 days 2012: 38 days.
Trade payables are interest free for periods ranging from 30 to 180 days.
Thereafter interest is charged at commercial rates.
The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit timeframe.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximate their fair value.
Provisions 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Current 1 Employee benefits 139 625 Bonus provision 4,337 139 4,962 Noncurrent 2 Restoration and rehabilitation 7,638 5,544 7,638 5,544 Movement in restoration and rehabilitation provision Balance at beginning of the year 5,544 2,630 Additional provision recognised 1,531 2,651 Interest expense unwinding of discount 563 263 Balance at end of the year 7,638 5,544 Movement in bonus provision Balance at beginning of the year 4,337 Provision recognised 4,337 Utilisation of provision 4,337 Balance at end of the year 4,337 1 Employee benefits relate to annual, sick and long service leave entitlements.
The current provision for employee benefits as at 31 December 2013 includes US$139,111 31 December 2012: US$625,118 of annual leave entitlements.
In the current year bonuses are classified within accruals.
2 The provision for restoration and rehabilitation represents the present value of the directors best estimate of the future outflow of economic benefits that will be required to remove the facilities and restore the affected areas at the Groups sites discounted by 7%.
This estimate has been made on the basis of benchmark assessments of restoration works required following mine closure and after taking into account the projected area to be disturbed over the life of the mine.
CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 114 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2013 17.
Issued capital 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Balance at beginning of the period 612,463 608,596 Transfer from share options reserve 510 Other placements 3,367 Share issue costs 10 Balance at end of the period 612,463 612,463 During 2011 the Company redomiciled to Jersey and the presentation below is in line with the requirements of the Jersey Companies Act.
31 December 2013 31 December 2012 Number US$000 Number US$000 Fully paid ordinary shares Balance at beginning of the period 1,101,397,381 612,463 1,096,297,381 608,596 Issue of shares under share option schemes 5,100,000 3,357 Transfer from share option reserve 510 Balance at end of the period 1,101,397,381 612,463 1,101,397,381 612,463 1 At 31 December 2013 the Company held 11,013,888 ordinary shares in treasury 2012: 11,347,222 ordinary shares.
Fully paid ordinary shares carry one vote per share and carry the right to dividends.
See Note 27 for more details of the share options.
1 Refers to shares held by the Trustee pursuant to the Loan Funded Share Plan and Deferred Bonus Share Plan.
Reserves 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Share option reserve 5,761 3,477 5,761 3,477 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Share option reserve Balance at beginning of the period 3,477 2,006 Cost of share-based payments 2,284 1,981 Transfer to issued capital 510 Balance at the end of the period 5,761 3,477 The share option reserve arises on the grant of share options to employees under the employee share option plan and on grant of broker warrants.
Amounts are transferred out of the reserve and into issued capital when the options and warrants are exercised.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 115 19.
Commitments for expenditure a Capital expenditure commitments 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Plant and equipment Not longer than one year 3,474 55,978 Longer than one year and not longer than five years Longer than five years 3,474 55,978 b Operating lease commitments 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Office premises Not longer than one year 73 319 Longer than one year and not longer than five years 244 486 Longer than five years 60 317 865 Operating lease commitments are limited to office premises in Jersey.
Contingent liabilities and contingent assets Contingent liabilities Fuel supply In January 2012, the Group received a letter from Chevron to the effect that Chevron would only be able to supply Diesel Fuel Oil DFO to the mine at Sukari at international prices rather than at local subsidised prices, which had the effect of adding approximately US$150 per ounce to the cost of production.
It is further understood that EGPC itself issued this instruction because it had received legal advice from the Legal Advice Department of the Council of State an internal government advisory department that the companies operating in the gold mining sector in Egypt were not entitled to such subsidies.
In November, the Group received a further demand from Chevron for the repayment of fuel subsidies received during the period from late 2009 through to January 2012, amounting to EG403 million approximately US$60 million at current exchange rates.
The Group has taken detailed legal advice on this matter and, in particular, on the opinion given by the Legal Advice Department of the Council of State and in June 2012 lodged an appeal against EGPCs decision in the Administrative Courts.
Again, the Group believes that its grounds for appeal are strong and that there is a good prospect of success.
However, as a practical matter, and in order to ensure the continuation of supply whilst the matter is resolved, the Group has since January advanced funds to its fuel supplier, Chevron, based on the international price for fuel.
As at the date of this document, no decision had been taken by the courts regarding this matter.
The Group remains of the view that an instant move to international fuel prices is not a reasonable outcome and will look to recover funds advanced thus far should the court proceeding be successfully concluded.
However, management recognises the practical difficulties associated with reclaiming funds from the government and for this reason has fully provided against the prepayment of US$97.0 million, as an exceptional item.
Refer to Note 6 of the accompanying financial statements for further details on the impact of this exceptional provision on the Groups results for 2013.
No provision has been made in respect of the historic subsidies prior to January 2012 as, based on legal advice, the Company believes that the prospects of a court finding in its favour in relation to this matter remain very strong.
CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 116 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2013 20.
Contingent liabilities and contingent assets continued Contingent liabilities continued Concession Agreement court case On 30 October 2012, the Administrative Court in Egypt handed down a judgment in relation to a claim brought by, amongst others, an independent member of the previous parliament, in which he argued for the nullification of the agreement that confers on the Group rights to operate in Egypt.
This agreement, the Concession Agreement, was entered into between the Arab Republic of Egypt, the Egyptian Mineral Resources Authority EMRA and Centamins wholly-owned subsidiary Pharaoh Gold Mines PGM, and was approved by the Peoples Assembly as law 222 of 1994.
In summary that judgment states that, although the Concession Agreement itself remains valid and in force, insufficient 2 evidence had been submitted to Court in order to demonstrate that the 160km exploitation lease between PGM and EMRA had received approval from the relevant Minister as required by the terms of the Concession Agreement.
2 Accordingly, the Court found that the exploitation lease in respect of the area of 160km was not valid although it stated 2 that there was in existence such a lease in respect of an area of 3km.
Centamin, however, is in possession of the executed 2 original lease documentation which clearly shows that the 160km exploitation lease was approved by the Minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources.
It appears that an executed original document was not supplied to the Court.
Upon notification of the judgment the Group took various steps to protect its ability to continue to operate the mine at Sukari.
These included lodging a formal appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court on 26 November 2012.
In addition, in conjunction with the formal appeal the Group applied to the Supreme Administrative Court to suspend the initial decision until such time as the court is able to consider and rule on the merits of the appeal.
On 20 March 2013 the Court upheld this application thus suspending the initial decision and providing assurance that normal operations would be able to continue whilst the appeal process is under way.
EMRA lodged its own appeal in relation to this matter on 27 November 2012, the day after the Companys appeal was lodged.
Furthermore, in late December 2012, the Minister of Petroleum lodged a supporting appeal and shortly thereafter publicly indicated that, in his view, the terms of the Concession Agreement were fair and that the exploitation lease was valid.
The Minister of Petroleum also expressed support for the investment and expertise that Centamin brings to the country.
The Company believes this demonstrates the governments commitment to our investment at Sukari and the desire to stimulate further investment in the Egyptian mining industry.
The Company does not yet know when the appeal will conclude, although it is aware of the potential for the process in Egypt to be lengthy.
The Company has taken extensive legal advice on the merits of its appeal from a number of leading Egyptian law firms who have confirmed that the proper steps were followed with regard to the grant of the 160km lease.
It therefore remains of the view that the appeal is based on strong legal grounds and will ultimately be successful.
In the event that the appellate court fails to be persuaded of the merits of the case put forward by the Group, the operations at Sukari may be adversely effected to the extent that the Groups operation exceeds the exploitation lease area of 3km referred to in the original court decision.
The Company remains confident that normal operations at Sukari will be maintained whilst the appeal case is heard.
Contingent assets There were no contingent assets at the year end 31 December 2012: nil.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 117 21.
Subsidiaries The parent entity of the Group is Centamin plc, incorporated in Jersey, and the details of its subsidiaries are as follows: Ownership interest 31 December 31 December Country of 2013 2012 incorporation % % Centamin Egypt Limited Australia 100 100 Viking Resources Limited Australia 100 100 North African Resources NL Australia 100 100 Pharaoh Gold Mines NL Australia 100 100 1 Egyptian Pharaoh Investments Egypt 50 50 Sukari Gold Mining Co Egypt 50 50 Centamin UK Limited United Kingdom 100 100 2 Sheba Exploration Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Centamin Group Services Limited Jersey 100 100 Centamin Holdings Limited Jersey 100 100 Sheba Exploration Limited Ethiopia 100 100 Centamin Limited Bermuda 100 100 Centamin West Africa Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100 3 Unincorporated Joint Venture N A 51 1 Dormant company.
2 Previously Sheba Exploration UK Plc.
3 Conditional upon the terms of a JV Agreement between Centamin plc and Alecto Minerals plc.
Auditors remuneration The analysis of the auditors remuneration is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 301 210 Additional fees relating to the prior year 67 191 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services to the Group the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 50 48 Total audit fees 418 449 Nonaudit fees: Audit related assurance services interim review 140 126 Other assurance services 49 Tax compliance services 56 79 Tax advisory services 60 122 Total nonaudit fees 305 327 The Audit Committee and the external auditor have safeguards in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors objectivity and independence could be compromised.
These safeguards include the implementation of a policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit related services.
Where it is deemed that the work to be undertaken is of a nature that is generally considered reasonable to be completed by the auditor of the Company for sound commercial and practical reasons, the conduct of such work will be permissible provided that it has been pre-approved.
All these services are also subject to a predefined fee limit.
Any work performed in excess of this limit must be approved by the Audit Committee.
CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 118 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2013 23.
Jointly controlled entities The consolidated entity has material interests in the following ventures: Percentage interest 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Name of joint venture Principal activities % % 1 Egyptian Pharaoh Investments Exploration 50 50 Sukari Gold Mines Exploration and production 50 50 1 Dormant company.
The Groups interest as a joint venture partner, in the above jointly controlled entities, is detailed below.
The amounts are included in the consolidated financial statements of the Group using the line-by-line reporting format.
Statement of financial position 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Current assets Cash 2,297 32,107 Trade and other receivables 24,657 40,734 Inventories 127,242 94,636 Prepayments 1,361 289 155,557 167,766 Noncurrent assets Exploration, evaluation and development 50,707 32,002 50,707 32,002 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 73,780 53,601 73,780 53,601 Statement of comprehensive income 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Revenue 503,825 426,133 Cost of sales 254,108 204,109 Gross profit 249,717 222,024 Other operating income 1,006 37 Other operating costs 2,845 4,096 Profit before income tax 247,878 226,157 Tax expenses 4 Net profit for the year 247,874 226,157 Capital commitments arising from the Groups interests in joint ventures are disclosed in Note 19.
Through its wholly owned subsidiary, PGM, the Company entered into the Concession Agreement with EMRA and the Arab Republic of Egypt granting PGM and EMRA the right to explore, develop, mine and sell gold and associated minerals in specific concession areas located in the Eastern Desert of Egypt.
The Concession Agreement came into effect under Egyptian law on 13 June 1995.
In 2001 PGM, together with EMRA, were granted an Exploitation Lease over 160 square kilometres surrounding the Sukari Project site.
The Exploitation Lease was signed by PGM, EMRA and the Egyptian Minister of Petroleum and gives tenure for a period of 30 years, commencing 24 May 2005 and extendable by PGM for an additional 30 years upon PGM providing reasonable commercial justification.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 119 In 2006 SGM, was incorporated under the laws of Egypt.
SGM was formed to conduct exploration, development, exploitation and marketing operations in accordance with the Concession Agreement.
Responsibility for the day-to-day management of the project rests with the general manager, who is appointed by PGM.
The fiscal terms of the Concession Agreement require that PGM solely funds SGM.
PGM is however entitled to recover from sales revenue recoverable costs, as defined in the Concession Agreement.
EMRA is entitled to a share of SGMs net production surplus or profit share defined as revenue less payment of the fixed royalty to ARE and recoverable costs.
As at 31 December 2013, PGM has not recovered its cost and accordingly, no EMRA entitlement has been recognised to date, It is anticipated that the first payment to EMRA will become payable during 2015, Any payment made to EMRA pursuant to these provisions of the Concession Agreement will be recognised as a variable royalty charge to the income statement.
The Concession Agreement grants certain tax exemptions, including the following: from 1 April 2010, being the date of commercial production, the Sukari Project is entitled to a 15 year exemption from any taxes imposed by the Egyptian government on the revenues generated from the Sukari Project.
PGM and EMRA intend that SGM will in due course file an application to extend the tax-free period for a further 15 years.
The extension of the tax-free period requires that there has been no tax problems or disputes in the initial period and that certain activities in new remote areas have been planned and agreed by all parties: PGM and SGM are exempt from custom taxes and duties with respect to the importation of machinery, equipment and consumable items required for the purpose of exploration and mining activities at the Sukari Project.
The exemption shall only apply if there is no local substitution with the same of similar quality to the imported machinery, equipment or consumables.
Such exemption will also be granted if the local substitution is more than 10% more expensive than the imported machinery, equipment or consumables after the additional of the insurance and transportation costs: PGM, EMRA and SGM and their respective buyers will be exempt from any duties or taxes on the export of gold and associated minerals produced from the Sukari Project: PGM at all times is free to transfer in US dollars or other freely convertible foreign currency any cash of PGM representing its share of net proceeds and recovery of costs, without any Egyptian government limitation, tax or duty PGMs contractors and sub-contractors are entitled to import machinery.
Equipment and consumable items under the Temporary Release System which provided exemption from Egyptian customs duty: and legal title of all operating assets of PGM will pass to EMRA when cost recovery is completed.
The right of use of all fixed and movable assets remains with PGM and SGM.
Earnings per share 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Cents per share Cents per share Basic earnings per share 16.87 18.27 Diluted earnings per share 16.77 18.26 Basic earnings per share The earnings and weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per share are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Earnings used in the calculation of basic EPS 183,959 199,038 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Number Number Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic EPS 1,090,242,853 1,089,653,789 CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 120 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2013 24.
Earnings per share continued Diluted earnings per share The earnings and weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of diluted earnings per share are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Earnings used in the calculation of diluted EPS 183,959 199,038 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Number Number Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted EPS 1,097,144,885 1,089,977,621 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic EPS 1,090,242,853 1,089,653,789 Shares deemed to be issued for no consideration in respect of employee options 6,902,032 323,832 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of diluted EPS 1,097,144,885 1,089,977,621 No potential ordinary shares were excluded from the calculation of weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share.
Notes to the statements of cash flows a Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand and at bank and deposits.
31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Cash and cash equivalents 105,979 147,133 b Reconciliation of profit for the year to cash flows from operating activities 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Profit for the year 183,959 199,038 Add less non-cash items: Depreciation amortisation of property, plant and equipment 50,888 35,637 Stock write-off 372 20 Decrease increase in provisions 2,729 7,159 Foreign exchange rate gain, net 7,788 4,320 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 12,911 Share of loss in associate 1,664 330 Impairment of associate 1,968 Impairment of exploration and evaluation assets 6,503 Share-based payments 2,284 1,981 Changes in working capital during the period: Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 15,309 10,738 Increase in inventories 40,633 22,005 Increase decrease in prepayments 20,162 1,110 Increase in trade and other payables 41,287 13,193 Cash flows generated from operating activities 245,833 221,405 c Noncash financing and investing activities During the year there have been no non-cash financing and investing activities.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 121 26.
Financial instruments a Group risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities within the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the cash and equity balance.
The Groups overall strategy remains unchanged from the previous financial period.
The Group has no debt and thus is not geared at year end or in the prior year.
The capital structure consists of cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital and reserves as disclosed in Notes 17 and 18.
The Group operates in Australia, Jersey, Egypt and Ethiopia.
None of the Groups entities are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
The Group utilises inflows of funds toward the ongoing exploration and development of the Sukari Gold Project in Egypt.
Categories of financial assets and liabilities: 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Financial assets Available-for-sale assets 989 5,613 Cash and cash equivalents 105,979 147,133 Trade and other receivables 25,427 40,736 132,395 193,482 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 78,102 54,606 78,102 54,606 b Financial risk management and objectives The Groups overall risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential risk adverse effects and ensure that net cash flows are sufficient to support the delivery of the Groups financial targets whilst protecting future financial security.
The Group continually monitors and tests its forecast financial position against these objectives.
The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market: commodity: credit: liquidity: foreign exchange: and interest rate.
These risks are managed under Board approved directives through the Audit Committee.
The Groups principal financial instruments comprise interest bearing cash and cash equivalents.
Other financial instruments include trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from operations.
It is, and has been throughout the period under review, Group policy that no speculative trading in financial instruments be undertaken.
CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 122 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2013 26.
Financial instruments continued c Market risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the Australian dollar, Great British pound and Egyptian pound.
Exposure to Canadian dollars has diminished considerably when compared to prior periods.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities that are denominated in a currency that is not the entitys functional currency.
The risk is measured by regularly monitoring, forecasting and performing sensitivity analyses on the Groups financial position.
Financial instruments denominated in Great British pound, Australian dollar and Egyptian pound are as follows: Great British pound Australian dollar Egyptian pound 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 535 1,055 17,430 21,963 898 3,648 Available-for-sale assets 580 4,062 409 1,550 1,115 5,117 17,839 23,513 898 3,648 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 549 6,585 4,923 11,361 35,980 6,268 549 6,585 4,923 11,361 35,980 6,268 Net exposure 566 1,468 12,916 12,152 35,082 2,620 The following table summarises the sensitivity of financial instruments held at the reporting date to movements in the exchange rate of the Great British and Egyptian pounds and Australian dollar to the United States dollar, with all other variables held constant.
The sensitivities are based on reasonably possible changes over a financial period, using the observed range of actual historical rates.
Impact on profit Impact on equity 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$ GB increase by 10% 1 133 53 155 US$ GB decrease by 10% 1 133 53 155 US$ A$ increase by 10% 1,144 1,105 29 144 US$ A$ decrease by 10% 1,144 1,105 29 144 US$ E increase by 10% 3,003 238 US$ E decrease by 10% 3,003 238 The Groups sensitivity to foreign currency has decreased at the end of the current period mainly due to the decrease in foreign currency cash holdings in Australian dollars and Great British pounds and a corresponding increase in US dollar cash holdings.
The Group has not entered into forward foreign exchange contracts.
Natural hedges are utilised wherever possible to offset foreign currency liabilities.
The Company maintains a policy of not hedging its currency positions and maintains currency holdings in line with underlying requirements and commitments.
d Commodity price risk The Groups future revenue forecasts are exposed to commodity price fluctuations, in particular gold prices.
The Group has not entered into forward gold hedging contracts.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 123 e Interest rate risk The Groups main interest rate risk arises from cash and short-term deposits and is not considered to be a material risk due to the short-term nature of these financial instruments.
Cash deposits are placed on term period of no more than 30 days at a time.
The financial instruments exposed to interest rate risk and the Groups exposure to interest rate risk as at balance date were as follows: Weighted average One to More than effective Less than twelve twelve interest rate one month months months Total % US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Consolidated 31 December 2013 Financial assets Variable interest rate instruments 0.49 6,228 99,086 105,314 Non-interest bearing 27,081 27,081 33,309 99,086 132,395 Financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments Non-interest bearing 78,102 78,102 78,102 78,102 31 December 2012 Financial assets Variable interest rate instruments 0.64 33,251 111,898 145,149 Non-interest bearing 48,333 48,333 81,584 111,898 193,482 Financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments Non-interest bearing 54,606 54,606 54,606 54,606 CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 124 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2013 26.
Financial instruments continued f Liquidity risk The Groups liquidity position is managed to ensure that sufficient funds are available to meet its financial commitments in a timely and cost effective manner.
Ultimate responsibility or liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, who has established an appropriate management framework for the management of the Groups funding requirements.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash reserves and management monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity on the basis of expected cash flow.
The tables above reflect a balanced view of cash inflows and outflows and shows the implied risk based on those values.
Trade payables and other financial liabilities originate from the financing of assets used in the Groups ongoing operations.
These assets are considered in the Groups overall liquidity risk.
Management continually reviews the Group liquidity position including cash flow forecasts to determine the forecast liquidity position and maintain appropriate liquidity levels.
One to More than Less than twelve twelve 1 month months months Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Liquidity risk: Consolidated 31 December 2013 Financial assets Variable interest rate instruments 6,228 99,086 105,314 Non-interest bearing 27,081 27,081 33,309 99,086 132,395 Financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments Non-interest bearing 78,102 78,102 78,102 78,102 31 December 2012 Financial assets Variable interest rate instruments 33,251 111,898 145,149 Non-interest bearing 48,333 48,333 81,584 111,898 193,482 Financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments Non-interest bearing 54,606 54,606 54,606 54,606 g Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties and obtaining sufficient collateral or other security where appropriate, as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults.
The Group measures credit risk on a fair value basis.
The Groups credit risk is concentrated on one entity, but the Group has good credit checks on customers and none of the trade receivables from the customer has been past due.
Also, the cash balances held in Canadian and Australian dollars are held with a financial institution with a high credit rating.
The gross carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk without taking account of the value of collateral or other security obtained.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 125 h Fair value The carrying amount of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded in the financial statements represents their respective fair values, principally as a consequence of the short-term maturity thereof.
i Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
2013 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Available-for-sale financial assets 989 989 2012 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Available-for-sale financial assets 5,613 5,613 There were no financial assets or liabilities subsequently measured at fair value on Level 3 fair value measurement bases.
Sharebased payments Employee Share Option Plan ESOP The consolidated entity had an Employee Share Option Plan ESOP in place for executives and employees.
Options were issued to key management personnel under the Employee Option Plan 2006 previously the Employee Option Plan 2002 as part of their remuneration.
Options were offered to key management personnel at the discretion of the directors, having regard, among other things, to the length of service with the consolidated entity, the past and potential contribution of the person to the consolidated entity and in some cases, individual performance.
Each share option converts into one ordinary share of the Company on exercise.
The options carry neither rights to dividends nor voting rights and are not transferable.
Options vest over a period of twelve months, with 50% vesting and exercisable after six months and the other 50% vesting and exercisable after twelve months of issue.
All options are issued with a term of three years.
At the discretion of the directors part or all of the options issued to an executive or employee may be subject to performance based hurdles.
No performance based hurdles have been applied for options granted to date.
Upon exercise of the options the ordinary shares received rank equally with the existing ordinary shares.
No options have been offered under the ESOP in 2011 or 2012.
Executive Directors Loan Funded Share Plan EDLFSP and Employee Loan Funded Share Plan ELFSP Shares were issued to executive directors under the Executive Directors Loan Funded Share Plan EDLFSP 2011 and employees under the ELFSP as part of their remuneration package.
Under the terms of the EDLFSP and ELFSP, the Company has provided a limited recourse and interest free loan to certain employees of the Company for the purpose of acquiring the New Shares the Loan.
The purchase of the shares has been funded by the Loan and the shares will not vest until certain performance conditions are met.
In the event the performance conditions are not met, or the shares are forfeited by the participant, the Company can either re-acquire the shares or direct the trustee to sell them on, offsetting the proceeds against the outstanding loan amount and waiving the remainder of the loan.
Subject to performance conditions and time based hurdles being met, the loan will be repayable by the relevant employee in full on the earlier of the termination date of the loan three years from the date of issue or the date on which the shares are disposed of.
No options have been offered under the EDLFSP and ELFSP in 2012.
Further details of the EDLFSP and ELFSP can be found in the Notice of General Meeting for the shareholder meeting held on Tuesday, 15 February 2011, and full copies of the plan are available upon request.
Further details of the performance conditions can be found in the remuneration report.
CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 126 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2013 27.
Sharebased payments continued 2011 Employee Option Scheme Options were issued under the 2011 Employee Option Scheme EOS made in accordance with thresholds set in plans approved by shareholders at the Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on 14 December 2011.
All employees of the Group other than directors are able to participate in the 2011 EOS.
The Committee shall select from time to time from such group the actual participants in the 2011 EOS.
There are no current plans for options to be granted under the 2011 EOS.
The 2011 EOS provides for employees other than directors to receive up to an annual aggregate of options over ordinary shares, with an exercise price calculated by either the volume weighted average closing price of ordinary shares sold on an exchange for the five trading days most recently preceding the day as at which the market value is calculated or if market value is required to be determined in another manner or another amount for the purposes of tax legislation in another jurisdiction, then the value is so determined at the date of issue.
The ability to exercise the options is conditional on the Group achieving its performance hurdles.
For the initial grants to be made under the 2011 EOS it is the current intention that the performance criteria will be the TSR performance criteria as detailed in the 2011 Executive LFSP.
There are no outstanding awards under this plan and there is no current intention to use the plan.
Under the 2011 EOS the exercise price of the options is denominated in Great British pounds.
All options expire on the earlier of their expiry date or termination of the individuals employment.
Deferred Bonus Share Plan During the year the Company implemented a Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP which is a long-term share incentive arrangement for senior management but not executive directors and other employees participants.
Under the DBSP, the Board shall, at its absolute discretion, require such eligible participants to defer up to one hundred per cent 100% of their bonus opportunity and such eligible participants shall not be paid their deferred bonus in cash but shall instead be granted a Deferred Bonus Award over such number of shares provided that the eligible participant remains in employment on the date of grant effectively the vesting date.
The award of the deferred shares will not have any performance criteria attached.
They will however be subject to a service period.
On 4 June 2013, the Group offered to both the beneficiaries of the shares awarded under the ELFSP and to the majority of the beneficiaries of the options granted under the EOS the choice to replace their awards and options with awards under the DBSP.
The Group has accounted for this change as modifications to the share-based payment plans and will be recognising the incremental fair value granted, measured in accordance with IFRS 2, by this replacement over the vesting period of the new DBSP awards.
Under this offer, each participant has been granted a number of awards under the DBSP equivalent to the number of shares or options held under the ELFSP and EOS respectively.
Such DBSP awards shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the DBSP and shall ordinarily vest in three equal tranches on the anniversary of the grant date, conditional upon the continued employment with the Group.
All offers made to participants were accepted.
The total share-based payment charge relating to Centamin plc shares for the year is split as follows: 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 2011 EOS 74 110 LFSP 596 1,650 DBSP 1,614 221 2,284 1,981 No LFSP awards or EOS options were granted during the year.
The fair value of share-based payments awarded under the LFSP and granted under the 2011 EOS were measured by the use of the Black Scholes model where share-based payments have non-market based performance conditions.
The Monte-Carlo simulation has been used to model the Companys share prices against the performance of the chosen comparator group and the FTSE 250 at the relevant vesting dates.
2 Variable vesting dependent on one to three years of continuous employment and, for certain series, market based performance conditions being achieved.
3 The expected volatility of Centamin and each company in the chosen comparator group and the FTSE 250 Index Companies FTSE 250 has been calculated using approximately two years of historical price data.
4 The expected rate of return used in the valuations for Centamin and other UK comparator companies was set to equal the UK government bond rate with a yield-to-maturity that is equivalent to the tenor of the options.
When modelling the share price of Canadian comparator companies, the Canadian government bond rate was used.
Deferred share awards granted during the current and prior year: 1 DBSP 2013 DBSP 2012 Grant date 4 June 2013 11 October 2012 Number of instruments 9,075,000 1,000,000 Share price at grant date GB 0.3857 1.0060 Share price at grant date US$ 0.5886 1.6265 2 Vesting period years 13 1-3 Expected dividend yield % n a n a 3 Fair value GB 0.3857 1.0060 2 Fair value US$ 0.5886 1.6265 4 Incremental fair value at grant date weighted average GB 0.3277 4 Incremental fair value at grant date weighted average US$ 0.5000 1 Awards granted on 4 June 2013 to replace the awards under the ELFSP and the majority of the options granted under the EOS.
2 Variable vesting dependent on one to three years of continuous employment.
3 The fair value of shares in the DBSP was calculated by using the closing share price on grant date, converted at the closing GB:US$ foreign exchange rate on that day, no other factors were taken into account in determining the fair value.
4 The incremental fair value of the shares awarded under the DBSP were calculated by using the closing share price on grant date, converted at the closing GB:US$ foreign exchange rate on that day less the fair value of the share-based payments awarded under the ELFSP and EOS immediately prior to the grant under the DBSP on 4 June 2013.
No other factors were taken into account in determining the fair value of the shares awarded under the DBSP.
The fair value of the share-based payments awarded under the LFSP and granted under the 2011 EOS was measured by the use of the Black Scholes model where share-based payments have non-market based performance conditions.
CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 128 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2013 27.
Sharebased payments continued Deferred share awards granted during the current and prior year: continued The following table reconciles the outstanding share options granted under the Employee Share Option Plan at the beginning and end of the reporting period: 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 US$ US$ Weighted Weighted average average Number exercise Number exercise of options price of options price Balance at beginning of the period 1,630,150 1.20 Granted during the period Expired lapsed during the period 1,630,150 1.9228 Exercised during the period Balance at the end of the period Exercisable at the end of the period The following table reconciles the outstanding share options granted under 2011 Employee Option Scheme, at the beginning and end of the reporting period: 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 US$ US$ Weighted Weighted average average Number exercise Number exercise of options price of options price Balance at beginning of the period 1,400,000 1.0716 Granted during the period 1,550,000 1.0718 Expired lapsed during the period 600,000 1.1136 150,000 1.0730 Replaced with DBSP awards 300,000 1.1250 Cancelled and to be replaced with DBSP awards 500,000 1.1250 Exercised during the period Balance at the end of the period 1,400,000 1.0716 Exercisable at the end of the period The following reconciles the outstanding share options granted under the EDLFSP and ELFSP at the beginning and end of the reporting period: 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 US$ US$ Weighted Weighted average average Number exercise Number exercise of options price of options price Balance at beginning of the period 10,137,222 1.5808 7,472,222 2.00547 Granted during the period 5,100,000 1.0730 Expired lapsed during the period 167,500 1.5014 2,435,000 1.8169 Replaced with DBSP awards 8,747,500 1.5228 Exercised during the period Balance at the end of the period 1,222,222 2.0758 10,137,222 1.5808 Exercisable at the end of the period 275,000 1.9435 Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 129 The following reconciles the outstanding share awards granted under the DBSP at the beginning and end of the reporting period: 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Number of Number of awards awards Balance at beginning of the period 1,000,000 Granted during the period 9,075,000 1,000,000 Expired lapsed during the period 787,500 Exercised during the period Balance at the end of the period 9,287,500 1,000,000 Exercisable at the end of the period 333,333 28.
Key management personnel compensation Key management personal are persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly, including any director executive or otherwise of the Group.
The aggregate compensation made to key management personnel of the consolidated entity and the Company is set out below: 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$ US$ Short-term employee benefits 7,315,048 7,916,848 Long-term employee benefits 1,635 116,226 Post-employment benefits 31,153 78,295 Share-based payments 1,826,452 1,209,491 Total 9,174,288 9,320,860 29.
Related party transactions a Equity interests in related parties Equity interests in subsidiaries Details of the percentage of ordinary shares held in subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 21.
Equity interests in associates and joint ventures Details of interests in joint ventures are disclosed in Note 23. b Key management personnel compensation Details of key management personnel compensation are disclosed above.
CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 130 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2013 29.
Related party transactions continued c Key management personnel equity holdings The details of the movement in key management personnel equity holdings of fully paid ordinary shares in Centamin plc during the financial period are as follows: Balance at Granted as Granted as Received Balance at Balance 1 January remuneration remuneration on exercise Net other 31 December held 2 1 31 December 2013 2013 LFSP DBSP of options change 2013 nominally J El-Raghy 70,945,086 500,000 71,445,086 T Schultz 1,030,000 1,030,000 G Haslam 102,056 102,056 M Arnesen 15,000 15,000 M Bankes 90,000 30,000 120,000 K Tomlinson P Louw 1,737,500 1,200,000 1,200,000 1,737,500 A Pardey 1,785,000 510,000 510,000 1,785,000 H Brown 475,000 475,000 C Aujard D Le Masurier L Gregory Y El-Raghy 510,000 510,000 A Davidson Balance at Granted as Granted as Received Balance at Balance 1 January remuneration remuneration on exercise Net other 31 December held 2 1 31 December 2012 2012 LFSP DBSP of options change 2012 nominally J El-Raghy 71,445,086 500,000 70,945,086 T Schultz 1,000,000 30,000 1,030,000 G Haslam 50,000 52,056 102,056 M Arnesen 15,000 15,000 M Bankes 60,000 30,000 90,000 K Tomlinson P Louw 637,500 600,000 500,000 1,737,500 A Pardey 775,000 510,000 500,000 1,785,000 H Brown 475,000 475,000 C Aujard D Le Masurier L Gregory Y El-Raghy 510,000 510,000 A Davidson 1 Net other change relates to the on market acquisition or disposal of fully paid ordinary share, including the forfeiture of shares awarded under the LFSP and DBSP and the replacement of awards under the ELFSP with shares awarded under the DBSP.
2 includes shares held under LFSP DBSP.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 131 d Key management personnel share option holdings The details of the movement in key management personnel options to acquire ordinary shares in Centamin plc are as follows: Balance Balance vested vested and Balance at Balance at during the exercisable at 1 January Granted as Other 31 December financial 31 December 31 December 2013 2013 remuneration Exercised changes 2013 period 2013 J El-Raghy T Schultz G Haslam M Arnesen M Bankes K Tomlinson P Louw A Pardey H Brown C Aujard 600,000 600,000 D Le Masurier L Gregory Y El-Raghy A Davidson 500,000 500,000 Balance Balance vested vested and Balance at Balance at during the exercisable at 1 January Granted as Other 31 December financial 31 December 31 December 2012 2012 remuneration Exercised changes 2012 period 2012 J El-Raghy T Schultz G Haslam M Arnesen M Bankes K Tomlinson P Louw A Pardey H Brown C Aujard 600,000 600,000 D Le Masurier L Gregory Y El-Raghy A Davidson 500,000 500,000 Apart from the details disclosed in this note, no key management personnel has entered into a material contract with the Company or the economic entity since the end of the previous financial year and there were no material contracts involving key management personnel interests at year end.
e Other transactions with key management personnel The related party transactions for the year ended 31 December 2013 are summarised below: Josef El-Raghy is a director and shareholder of El-Raghy Kriewaldt Pty Ltd El-Raghy Kriewaldt.
El-Raghy Kriewaldt provides office premises to the Company.
All dealings with El-Raghy Kriewaldt are in the ordinary course of business and on normal terms and conditions.
Rent and office outgoings paid to El-Raghy Kriewaldt during the period were A$48,278 or US$45,600 31 December 2012: A$21,499 or US$22,103.
CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 132 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2013 29.
Related party transactions continued f Transactions with the government of Egypt Royalty costs attributable to the government of Egypt of US$15,074,098 2012: US$12,769,084 were incurred in 2013.
With a view to demonstrating goodwill toward the Egyptian government, PGM has made advance payments to EMRA of US$18,950,000 2012: nil which will be netted off against any future profit share that becomes payable to EMRA.
g Transactions with other related parties Other related parties include the parent entity, subsidiaries, and other related parties.
During the financial period, the Company recognised tax payable in respect of the tax liabilities of its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Payments to from the Company are made in accordance with terms of the tax funding arrangement.
During the financial period the Company provided funds to and received funding from subsidiaries.
All amounts advanced to related parties are unsecured.
No expense has been recognised in the period for bad or doubtful debts in respect of amounts owed by related parties.
Transactions and balances between the Company and its subsidiaries were eliminated in the preparation of consolidated financial statements of the Group.
Subsequent events As referred to in Note 20, the Group is involved in ongoing litigation in respect of both the price at which diesel fuel oil is 2 supplied to the mine at Sukari and the validity of the 160km exploitation lease.
Subsequent to period end the Group reduced its interest in Nyota from 12.62% to 11.37% through the sale of 11 million shares held in Nyota and generated proceeds amounting to US$0.1 million.
On 20 February the Group announced that it had entered into an unconditional agreement for an off-market takeover for all the issued, and to be issued, shares of Ampella Mining Ltd the Offer.
Under the Offer, Ampella Mining Ltd Ampella will receive one 1 new Centamin share for every five 5 Ampella shares held.
2 The acquisition of Ampella will add significant gold assets to Centamins development portfolio, with c. 2,200km of exploration ground in Burkina Faso, including the Batie West gold project which hosts the Konkera Resource and 2 c. 1,200km of exploration ground across the border from Batie West in Cte dIvoire.
Centamin intends to progress a substantial exploration programme at Batie West, aimed at developing the potential for further significant resource growth and realising the projects full value, ultimately through development of a sizeable producing operation.
On 24 February 2014, the Group had a relevant interest in 126,321,285 shares or 51.14%.
In respect to the Offer, the Company issued a further 38,151,563 ordinary shares to the Ampella shareholders who had accepted the Offer by 28 February 2014.
The enlarged share capital of the Company at 7 March 2014 was 1,139,548,944 ordinary shares.
The numbers presented below are provisional and have been accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting.
The assumed acquisition consideration based on the terms of the Offer by Centamin will be as follows: Number of Ampella shares on issue as at 24 February 2014 254,302,883 Number of Ampella shares to be acquired 254,302,883 Number of Centamin shares offered for every Ampella share 0.20 Total number of Centamin shares issued 50,860,577 Fair value of Centamin shares as at 24 February 2014 US$ share 0.96 Share consideration US$ 48,826,154 Fair value of consideration US$ 48,826,154 This number assumes that all Ampella performance rights have vested in accordance with the terms of the Employee Performance Rights Plan.
It also assumes that 1,500,000 Ampella shares issued under the Ampella Employee Share Acquisition Plan are cancelled.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 133 Details of the assets, liabilities and mineral assets: Book Fair value Fair value value adjustments on acquisition Notes US$000 US$000 US$000 Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 11,961 11,961 Trade and other receivables 110 110 Prepayments 262 262 Inventories a 30 30 Noncurrent assets Property, plant and equipment b 1,497 1,497 Other non-current assets 26 26 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 643 643 Provisions 271 271 Fair value of net identifiable assets acquired 12,972 12,972 Mineral asset allocated on acquisition c 46,610 Less: deferred tax liability c 10,756 Total purchase consideration 48,826 The fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are subject to change following a detailed assessment of the fair values which is currently under way.
For the purposes of the preparation of the financial statements, management has assumed the following: a inventories have not been adjusted as management do not have sufficient information from which to estimate fair value: b management have assumed that the book value of the property, plant and equipment is indicative of fair value as detailed valuations have not been performed: and c management have allocated the excess of the fair value of the consideration of US$46.6 million over the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired to mineral rights.
The premium on acquisition of Ampella has been calculated as follows: US$000 Current assets 12,363 Non-current assets 1,523 Current liabilities 914 Mineral rights 35,854 Fair value of assets and liabilities acquired 48,826 Management have assumed that a deferred tax liability will arise for the full value of the uplift to the mine assets based on the limited information available and accordingly have recorded a deferred tax liability of US$10.8 million.
The mineral right, inclusive of the deferred tax liability, amounts to US$46.6 million.
On completion of the detailed fair value exercise, certain intangible assets may be identified and recorded separately.
This may also result in the recognition of additional deferred tax liabilities.
Further, any intangible assets with a finite life identified in the business combination will be required to be amortised over their useful life.
Transaction costs are assumed to be approximately US$1.9 million.
There were no other significant events occurring after the reporting date requiring disclosure in the financial statements.
CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 134 Glossary AIF flotation MD&A Probable Annual Information Form mineral processing technique Managements Discussion measured and or indicated used to separate mineral and Analysis of the Financial mineral resources which are not AN particles in a slurry, by causing Condition and Results of yet proven, but where technical ammonium nitrate them to selectively adhere to a Operations economic studies show that froth and float to the surface extraction is justifiable at the time ARE mill of the determination and under Arab Republic of Egypt FRC equipment used to grind crushed specific economic conditions Financial Reporting Council rocks to the desired size for assay mineral extraction production qualitative analysis of ore to grade total attributable gold determine its components relative quantity or the mineralisation production, as stated throughout percentage of ore mineral or process of formation and Au this document, is comprised of metal content in an ore body concentration of elements and chemical symbol for the element 100% of production from the their chemical compounds within gold Groups subsidiaries g t a mass or body of rock gram per metric tonne Board Proven Moz the Board of Directors of the measured mineral resources, indicated resource million ounces Group where technical economic as defined in the JORC Code, studies show that extraction is that part of a mineral resource Mt CA is justifiable at the time of the which has been sampled million tonnes Concession Agreement determination and under specific by drill holes, underground MTIF DBSP economic conditions openings or other sampling Medical treatment injury Deferred Bonus Share Plan procedures at locations that are recovery frequency too widely spaced to ensure directors proportion of valuable material continuity but close enough mtpa the directors of the Board of obtained in the processing of an to give a reasonable indication million tonnes per annum Centamin plc ore, stated as a percentage of continuity and where net production surplus dump leach geoscientific data is known resource or profit share a process used for the recovery with a reasonable degree of concentration or occurrence revenue less payment of the 3% of metal ore from typically reliability.
An indicated mineral of material of intrinsic economic royalty to Arab Republic of Egypt weathered low-grade ore. resource will be based on more interest in or on the Earths ARE and recoverable costs Blasted material is laid on a data and therefore will be more crust in such a form that there slightly sloping, impervious pad reliable than an inferred resource are reasonable prospects for open pit and uniformly leached by the estimate eventual economic extraction.
large scale hard rock percolation of the leach liquor The location, quantity, grade surface mine inferred resource trickling through the beds by geological characteristics as defined in the JORC Code, ore gravity to ponds.
The metals and continuity of a mineral is that part of a mineral resource mineral deposit that can are recovered by conventional resource are known, estimated for which the tonnage and be extracted and marketed methods from the solution or interpreted from specific grade and mineral content can profitably geological evidence and EDLFSP be estimated with a low level knowledge.
Mineral resources ore body Executive Director Loan Funded of confidence.
It is inferred are subdivided into Inferred, mining term to define a solid Share Plan from the geological evidence Indicated and Measured mass of mineralised rock and has assumed but not ELFSP categories that can be mined profitably verified geological and or Employee Loan Funded under current or immediately grade continuity.
It is based on ROM Share Plan foreseeable economic conditions information gathered through run of mine EMRA the appropriate techniques ore reserve SGM Egyptian Mineral from locations such as outcrops, the economically mineable part Sukari Gold Mining Co. Resource Authority trenches, pits, workings and drill of a Measured or Indicated holes which may be limited or of stockpile mineral resource.
It includes EOS uncertain quality and reliability an accumulation of ore or mineral diluting materials and allowances Employee Option Scheme formed to create a reserve for losses which may occur IFRS for loading or when demand ESOP when the material is mined.
International Financial Reporting slackens or when the process Employee Share Option Plan Appropriate assessments, which Standards plant is unequal to handling may include feasibility studies, EGPC IOD mine output have been carried out, and the Egyptian General Institute of Directors include consideration of and Petroleum Corporation strip ratio modification by realistically JORC the unit amount of spoil or waste EMRA assumed mining, metallurgical, Joint Ore Reserves Committee that must be removed to gain Egyptian Mineral economic, marketing, legal, of the Australasian Institute of access to a similar unit of ore Resource Authority environmental, social and Mining and Metallurgy, Australian or mineral governmental factors.
These Institute of Geoscientists and the EU IFRS assessments demonstrate at the Minerals Council of Australia International Financial Reporting time of reporting that extraction Standards as adopted by the LFSP could be reasonably justified.
European Union Loan Funded Share Plan Ore reserves are sub-divided in FA order of increasing confidence LTI fatality into Probable and Proven lost time due to injury feasibility study ounce or oz LTIFR extensive technical and financial troy ounce 31.1035 grams lost time injury frequency rate study to assess the commercial PGM viability of a project material tailings Pharaoh Gold Mines NL material that remains after all metals minerals considered economic have been removed from the ore Centamin plc Annual report 2013 Registered office Jersey Australia Centamin plc Level 2 57 Kishorn Road Level 2 2 Mulcaster Street Mount Pleasant 2 Mulcaster Street St Helier Western Australia 6153 St Helier Jersey JE2 3NJ T: 61 8 9316 2640 Jersey JE2 3NJ Tel: 44 1534 828 700 F: 61 8 9316 2650 Fax: 44 1534 731 946 Egypt 361 EI-Horreya Road Sedi Gaber Alexandria Egypt T: 20 3541 1259 F: 20 3522 6350 CENTAMIN.
COM Forward-looking statements Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, The report contains certain forward-looking statements.
uncertainties and a variety of material factors, many of which are These statements are made by the directors in good faith beyond the Companys control which may cause the actual results, based on the information available to them up to the time performance or achievements of Centamin, its subsidiaries and of their approval of this report and such statements should affiliated companies to be materially different from any future be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties, results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Readers are cautioned that forwardincluding both economic and business risk factors, looking statements may not be appropriate for other purposes than underlying any such forward-looking information.
Such factors include, among others, future price of gold: general business, economic, competitive, Cautionary note regarding forward looking statements political and social uncertainties: the actual results of current This document contains forward-looking information which exploration and development activities: conclusions of economic may include, but is not limited to, statements with respect to evaluations and studies: fluctuations in the value of the US dollar the future financial or operating performance of Centamin plc relative to the local currencies in the jurisdictions of the Companys Centamin or the Company, its subsidiaries together the key projects: changes in project parameters as plans continue to be Group, affiliated companies, its projects, the future price of refined: possible variations of ore grade or projected recovery rates: gold, the estimation of mineral reserves and mineral resources, accidents, labour disputes or slow-downs and other risks of the the realisation of mineral reserve and resource estimates, the mining industry: climatic conditions: political instability, insurrection timing and amount of estimated future production, revenues, or war, civil unrest or armed assault: labour force availability and margins, costs of production, estimates of initial capital, sustaining turnover: delays in obtaining financing or governmental approvals capital, operating and exploration expenditures, costs and timing or in the completion of exploration and development activities: as of the development of new deposits, costs and timing of future well as those factors referred to in the section entitled Risks and exploration, requirements for additional capital, foreign exchange Uncertainties section of the Management Discussion & Analysis.
risks, governmental regulation of mining operations and exploration The reader is also cautioned that the foregoing list of factors operations, timing and receipt of approvals, consents and permits is not exhausted of the factors that may affect the Companys under applicable mineral legislation, environmental risks, title forward-looking statements.
disputes or claims, limitations of insurance coverage and regulatory matters.
Often, but not always, forward-looking statements can Although the Company has attempted to identify important factors be identified by the use of words such as plans, expects, is that could cause actual actions, events or results to differ materially expected, budget, scheduled, estimates, forecasts, from those described in forward-looking statements, there may intends, targets, aims, anticipates or believes or be other factors that cause actions, events or results to differ variations including negative variations of such words and phrases, from those anticipated, estimated or intended.
Forward-looking or may be identified by statements to the effect that certain actions, statements contained herein are made as of the date of this events or results may, could, would, should, might or document and, except as required by applicable law, the Company will be taken, occur or be achieved.
disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or results or otherwise.
There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements.
Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.
Designed and produced by WEST SUSSEX PRINT LTD www.
