Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Performance Measures Shareholder Information Introduction We have made good strategic progress which will benefit our customers and the business in the Operational long term.
New targets have been set across Overview the Group, creating a platform for long-term sustainable growth.
Completed a Group-wide 500 million cost reduction programme Engaging with all stakeholders to improve understanding and rebuildtrust Signed 14 billion of new gas supply agreements 2.6 billion invested in the year including: Over 1.5 billion of organic investments, predominantly in North Sea E&P, including in major projects such as Cygnus Canadian upstream gas acquisition completed, in partnership with Qatar Petroleum International QPI Acquired a 25% stake in Bowland shale exploration licence in the UK Business to business acquisition delivers step-change in NorthAmerica Realised value through divestment of selected exploration and production assets, UK wind assets and US power stations Adding value through organic reserve additions, principally in Norway: recognised 699 million pre-tax 318 million post-tax exceptional impairments of UK Southern North Sea projects and existing Canadian gas assets Shaping ourselves InnOvAtE for the future We have completed strategic reviews in both British Gas and Direct Energy and new organisational structures are in place.
We are focusing on delivering further operational efficiencies and targeting industry leading high-quality service for all our customers.
We are also targeting a return to account growth in the UK following a 2% decline in 2013.
We are developing innovative, differentiated products in both British Gas and Direct Energy, in part enabled by our leadership in digital, smart and connectedhomes.
International Downstream Operating Review on page 18 IntEGRAtE Our international upstream E&P business has been reorganised to help realise the full potential of our larger international gas and oil resources, concentrating on the most attractive opportunities.
An increasing proportion of investment is likely to be directed towards North America, where we are well placed to benefit from an increase in gas prices, while we are targeting cost savings over the next threeyears.
International Upstream Operating Review on page 26 InCREASE We have a strong balance sheet, providing flexibility for targeted investments for value.
However, we expect our 2014 EPS to be lower than 2013, recognising the impact of the extreme weather in North America at the start of 2014.
Maintaining capital discipline is a core priority and we will be undertaking a 420 million extension of our share repurchase programme in 2014, following the completion of our 500 million programme in 2013.
We are also maintaining our commitment to real dividend growth.
Group Financial Review on page 34 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | 03
