Section 2 Basis of Preparation Section 2.1 - Introduction to the Basis of Preparation The ultimate holding company of British Telecommunications plc the Company is BT Where there are any inconsistencies in the Primary and Secondary Accounting Documents, Group plc referred to together with its subsidiary and associated undertakings and joint the Current Cost Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with the Primary ventures as the Group or BT.
Substantially all the businesses and activities of the Group Accounting Documents in the order of priority as listed above.
are carried out by British Telecommunications plc, its subsidiaries, associated undertakings The Secondary Accounting Documents consists of the Detailed Attribution Methods DAM, and joint ventures.
the Detailed Valuation Methodology DVM, the Long Run Incremental Cost Model: BT Group plcs Annual Report dated 9 May 2013 details the basis of preparation and Relationships and Parameters R&P and the Wholesale Catalogue.
These documents contain explains the accounting policies adopted by the Group.
BTs Annual Report for 2013, on more detailed descriptions of the policies, methodologies, systems, processes and which the auditors made an unqualified report, did not contain a statement under Section procedures for deriving and calculating the costs, revenues, assets and liabilities underlying 498 2 or 498 3 of the Companies Act 2006 and has been delivered to the Registrar of the Current Cost Financial Statements.
The economic Markets defined by Ofcoms Final Statements and Notifications do not The Company has, by agreement with BT Group plc, prepared the Current Cost Financial correspond to how the Group is organised for management and accounting purposes.
The Statements in accordance with the Accounting Documents, by disaggregating balances Current Cost Financial Statements are therefore produced by overlaying the requirements of recorded in the general ledgers and other accounting records of the Group.
the regulatory reporting framework on the management and accounting structure of the Group.
The Accounting Documents means together the Primary Accounting Documents and the Secondary Accounting Documents.
As far as possible, revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are directly associated with a product group or component using information held within the Groups accounting records and are The Primary Accounting Documents set out the framework under which the Statements are directly attributed to that item.
Where no such direct association is possible, the remaining prepared: revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are apportioned between two or more markets, services or components using a fully allocated accounting system.
This system uses apportionment Regulatory Accounting Principles - the principles we apply or use in the preparation of bases that reflect, as far as possible, the causality of the revenue, cost, asset or liability.
the Current Cost Financial Statements, for example, that all costs should be fully allocated.
The amounts of revenue, cost and capital employed attributed to markets, services and Attribution Methods - a high level summary of the practices we use to attribute components depend critically on the methods of attribution adopted.
Typically, in a fully revenue including appropriate Transfer Charges, costs including appropriate Transfer allocated accounting system, a range of attribution methods is available.
In selecting Charges, assets and liabilities to activities or, where those activities have been appropriate attribution methods and appropriate non-financial data for use within the aggregated to wholesale segments in a given Market or Technical Area as applicable, attribution models, that are employed in the production of these Current Cost Financial to each wholesale segment.
Statements, we have had to make certain estimates and exercise our judgement.
We do this Transfer Charge System Methodology - the approach used by our system that enables with regard to the regulatory accounting principles, including cost causality and objectivity, an activity to use a service from another activity and to account for it as though it had in order to comply with the requirements of the Primary Accounting Documents.
purchased that service from an unrelated party including accounting for it at an However, in some cases, when preparing financial statements at a very granular level a appropriate amount.
directly cost causal and objective method of apportionment cannot be determined or Accounting Policies - the way we apply the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, implemented and the Company adopts the most appropriate basis practically available.
Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards IAS Regulation, and our accounting policies, whenever not superseded by the Regulatory Accounting We review and update non-financial data used within the attribution models at least Principles, in each of the Current Cost Financial Statements.
This document details the annually.
Certain non-financial data employed for the purposes of the Current Cost Financial accounting policies adopted in preparing the underlying financial information.
Statements has been determined by sampling techniques appropriate to that data.
Long Run Incremental Cost LRIC Methodology - the long run incremental cost We review and update attribution and valuation methodologies and non-financial data principles, procedures and processes which form the framework we use to decide what sources on an ongoing basis and, where deemed appropriate, will make improvements.
the long run incremental costs are.
This document sets out the principles followed to Depending on the nature of the change, and where practical the Final Statements and derive the long run incremental network costs.
Page 9 Section 2 Basis of Preparation Notifications require significant detail in the Current Cost Financial Statements.
When Other changes in fixed asset values CCA adjustments e. g. one-off changes in preparing financial statements at such a granular level it is not always possible to develop a valuations due to a revised methodology are referred to as Other CCA Adjustments and directly cost causal and objective method of cost apportionment and so these Financial are included in the current cost valuations and are also attributed between all Markets, Statements have been prepared on the basis of the methodologies we consider to be the Technical Areas, Components and Wholesale Services.
A supplementary depreciation adjustment on fixed assets arising from differences between historical cost accounting HCA and CCA valuations is also attributed between In respect of the very small wholesale services within certain wholesale markets, we are the various Markets, Technical Areas, Components and Wholesale Services.
aware that, in following the generic methodologies for attribution of common costs set out The inflation adjustment to ordinary shareholders funds is not relevant to the SMP in the DAM, anomalies may exist in the year on year cost trends in some services.
Costing Markets, Technical Areas and Wholesale Services for which Current Cost Financial methodologies and non-financial data sources are kept under review and, where Statements are prepared.
No CCA adjustment has been made to the valuation of appropriate, improvements are made.
Depending on the nature of the change restatements goodwill as this is also not relevant to the SMP Markets, Technical Areas and Wholesale may be required.
Our costing systems used in the preparation of the Current Cost Financial Statements to b The CCA valuation of assets is affected by external factors such as changes in market attribute revenues, costs, assets and liabilities to SMP Markets use the general ledgers of the prices and changes to our CCA policies and practices.
For the year ended 31 March 2013, Group as their starting point.
These ledgers are maintained to the nearest penny and this this resulted in a net decrease in the operating costs in SMP Markets and Technical Areas in level of detail is maintained throughout the costing process.
However, for consistency with these Current Cost Financial Statements of 158m, of which 59m relates to Residual the presentation of the results of the Group in BT Group plcs Annual Report, the results for markets, and is mainly attributed to: each SMP Market are presented in figures rounded to the nearest whole million pounds.
Change in valuation methodology of Power and Accommodation Plant classes of work Charges from Wholesale Markets to Retail Residual from historical to indexed historical due to the divergence in the two forms of valuation The Mean Capital Employed Statements for the Wholesale Markets include balances relating methods.
to the charges from the Wholesale Markets to Retail Residual.
Retail Residual is deemed to Change of index used for dropwire to RPI in order to align with the valuation method of settle these charges in the same 22 day period 2011 12 restated: 22 days as other copper assets.
General price increases on the remaining classes of work offset by reductions due to supplementary depreciation.
The Network Activity Statements show component unit costs on a 24-hour basis.
Charges to Retail Residual and other CPs for call conveyance services vary by the time of day at which Regulatory Valuation of Copper-Based Local Access Network Assets the service was purchased.
The charges for other Wholesale Services to Retail Residual and In August 2005, Ofcom introduced an alternative methodology for determining its view of other CPs do not require adjustment for the time of day at which they are purchased.
the current cost regulatory asset value of the copper-based local access network Current Cost Accounting CCA adjustments Regulatory Asset Valuation adjustment or the RAV adjustment.
This RAV adjustment, which results in a lower valuation, is used only by Ofcom for regulatory purposes and is not a The Current Cost Financial Statements for the Group are prepared under the Financial reflected in the methodologies we use to produce the Current Cost Financial Statements.
Capital Maintenance FCM convention in accordance with the principles set out in the handbook Accounting for the Effects of Changing Prices, published in 1986 by the As agreed with Ofcom, the RAV adjustment has not been implemented in the Current Cost Accounting Standards Committee.
We summarise below the treatment of CCA adjustments within the Current Cost Financial Comparability of current and prior year results Statements: There have been a number of changes in the year that impact on the comparability of the Changes in fixed asset values arising from price changes taking place in the year are current and prior year results: referred to as holding gains or losses arising during the year and are attributed between a Changes to BTs financial reporting obligations as set out in the Current Cost Financial all SMP Markets, Technical Areas, Components and Wholesale Services on the same Statements and Notifications explained in Section 2.2. basis as the associated assets.
Page 10 Section 2 Basis of Preparation b The prior year comparatives have been restated to reflect for the following methodology v The average debtor days has been restated from 28 days to 22 days to better align improvements implemented in the current year: with the calculation of debtor days used by Ofcom when modelling costs for charge control purposes.
This change did not impact any market materially.
i The CCA valuation of duct and copper assets was reviewed during the year and has been changed from an absolute basis to an indexed RPI approach.
Both an absolute The impact of these restatements on the Access Markets and Other Wholesale Markets is valuation and indexation are acceptable methodologies under CCA principles.
In the shown below: specific circumstances of our valuation of access network assets we consider indexation Restated As originally reported Difference is the more appropriate method as the complexity, size and nature of any Total CCA Mean Total CCA Total CCA Operating Capital Operating Mean Capital Operating Mean Capital telecommunications access network means significant estimates and assumptions are For the year ended 31 March 2012 Costs Employed Costs Employed Costs Employed made that lead to a level of uncertainty in any absolute valuation.
Changes in these m m m m m m estimates and assumptions, improvements in data capture and varying commodity Wholesale analogue exchange line services 1,439 6,918 1,526 6,938 87 20 Wholesale ISDN2 exchange line services 66 244 69 245 3 1 prices used in an absolute valuation also introduce volatility into the Current Cost Wholesale business ISDN30 exchange line services 123 235 129 240 6 5 Financial Statements.
In comparison, indexation provides a valuation which is easy to TISBO up to and including 8Mbit s 353 857 387 905 34 48 understand and transparent for all users of the data.
TISBO above 8Mbit s up to and including 45Mbit s 25 63 30 75 5 12 TISBO above 45Mbit s up to and including 155Mbit s 19 59 25 72 6 13 AISBO up to and including 1Gbit s g 510 1,326 530 1,357 20 31 The change in valuation for 2011 12 resulted in a net 65m increase in duct and copper Wholesale local access 616 2,101 628 2,108 12 7 assets and impacted a number of markets.
Total Access Markets 3,151 11,803 3,324 11,940 173 137 Further details are provided in the publication Detailed Valuation Methodology 2013.
Restated As originally reported Difference Total CCA Mean Total CCA Total CCA ii During 2012 13 we reviewed the attribution of property costs.
The methodology for Operating Capital Operating Mean Capital Operating Mean Capital For the year ended 31 March 2012 Costs Employed Costs Employed Costs Employed attributing vacant space in exchanges has been changed from an allocation of vacant m m m m m m space pro-rata on the basis of the current usage of occupied space to a two stage Call origination on FPN networks 132 305 142 310 10 5 allocation which recognises the need to provide space for LLU operators followed by an Single transit on FPN networks 3 10 3 10 0 0 Technical areas Interconnect Circuits 26 53 28 54 2 1 allocation of remaining vacant space to main distribution frames and cable chambers as Fixed call termination 108 312 120 317 12 5 the high costs incurred from moving to smaller and more economic exchanges, and the Wholesale trunk segments 23 157 27 164 4 7 disruption to services that would be incurred in moving cable chambers and main Technical areas Point of Handover 11 18 11 18 0 0 distribution frames, prevents us from reducing the size of the operational building Wholesale Broadband Access - Market 1 349 417 338 417 11 0 Wholesale Broadband Access - Market 2 186 196 179 195 7 1 portfolio.
A more appropriate allocation is achieved by allocating space in this way.
Total Other Wholesale Markets 838 1,468 848 1,485 10 17 We have also updated our exchange space methodology to reflect planning rules requiring additional space to be retained around equipment for ventilation.
Whilst there were no other restatements or re-presentations the ongoing review of cost Both changes to property costs impacted a number of different markets.
attribution and valuation methodologies resulted in a number of additional improvements and updates to reflect changes in group structure for which the restatement of comparative iii In 2012 13 we reviewed the attribution of costs of certain 21C equipment and information for the year ended 31 March 2012 was either not practicable or was not found the planned use of this equipment had changed and therefore had to be required as the impact was not material.
These changes include: appropriately allocated.
This had resulted in 20m of costs moving from the TISBO markets to WBA Market 1, WBA Market 2 and Residual markets.
The merger of BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate to create BT Technology, iv During 2012 13 we reviewed the attribution of costs of Time Division Multiplexing Service & Operations BT TSO the creation of BT TSO led to a review of the cost TDM cards.
This resulted in 2m of costs moving from the TISBO above 8Mbit s up to attribution methodologies for the new division.
Certain methodologies have been and including 45Mbit s market to the TISBO up to and including 8Mbit s, TISBO changed as the previous cost allocation methodology was no longer practical due above 45Mbit s up to and including 155Mbit s, Technical Areas Point of Handover, to a change in the nature of cost centre structure for the new division.
In addition, Wholesale business ISDN30 exchange line services, and Residual markets.
improved analysis of costs within the new structure has allowed the development of a number of new methodologies which better reflect the nature of the Page 11 Section 2 Basis of Preparation underlying costs.
It is has not been practicable to restate comparative information for these methodology changes as they are integrally linked to the structural change.
Career Transition Centre CTC allocate costs as a group overhead as employees within the CTC can be utilised across BT.
Provisions allocation of certain health related provisions to services that caused the claims.
Openreach overheads some categories of overheads changed from being allocated using pay to using pay and return on assets as they support the network as well as people.
Broadband equipment change in allocation to separately attribute the fixed and variable element of costs for Digital subscriber line access multiplexers DSLAMs.
Engineering Services updated data sources for services such as Special Fault Investigations.
WBA bandwidth volumes updated data source to more accurately reflect the usage of backhaul capacity between the WBA markets.
At Ofcoms request we will be providing a separate unaudited report showing the impact of the most significant of these changes on the Access Markets and Other Wholesale Markets for the year ended 31 March 2013 including estimated impacts, where practicable, for elements of the BT TSO changes.
We plan to publish a version of this report in September 2013.
