Section 8 Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.3 - Call origination on fixed public narrowband networks Definition Summary Market Performance Total CCA Call Origination is the conveyance of a call originating on a customers exchange line from Operating Return on the remote concentrator to and over the local exchange.
Revenue Costs Return MCE Year m m m % Call Origination Services are defined by Ofcom in the Fixed Narrowband Services 2013 169 127 42 15.3% Wholesale Market Review Statement as any and all of the following specific services 2012 181 132 49 16.6% provided by the Dominant Provider: Key Market Changes Call origination including operator assistance and emergency intermediate services : and Call origination has declined steadily throughout the year driven by several factors: Call origination including emergency intermediate services.
The on-going migration of call origination minutes from fixed public narrowband Key Regulatory Changes networks to mobile networks.
The substitution impact of Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP calls is growing and In 2009 10 Ofcom carried out a review of the Fixed Narrowband Services Wholesale Market will potentially have a greater impact in the future as Broadband Service Providers and a review of the Network Charge Controls.
It was concluded that BT still has SMP in the move towards double and triple play offerings in a move to consolidate market call origination market.
Ofcom also determined that due to decline in the market BT no share and grow revenue.
longer has an obligation to supply Flat Rate Internet Access Call Origination FRIACO.
As of Growth in Local Loop Unbundling LLU lines has eroded call origination volumes 1 October 2009 the price control on both DLE FRIACO and Single Tandem FRIACO fell away.
with major players marketing double play offerings to their customer base, where The Determination on PPP Product Management, Policy and Planning was implemented voice services are provided alongside high speed data.
The interconnect costs are pooled with the costs of providing end to end calls for BTs retail activities and the costs are recovered over all calls on an equivalent basis.
Each physical call crossing BTs network is charged PPP only once.
As PPP is incurred on all calls in markets where BT has SMP, it is relevant for the Call Origination market.
The charge controls for the services in this market are as follows: Service Current NCC 1 Oct 2009 30 Sept 2013 Call Origination RPI 2.75% PPP RPI 1.5% Page 85
