Section 8 Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.5 - Technical Areas Interconnect Circuits Definition The charge controls for the services in this market are as follows: Interconnect Circuits provide the physical connection between interconnected networks.
Service Current NCC They link the exchanges of two interconnecting CPs in order to enable traffic to pass 1 Oct 2009 30 Sept 2013 between their networks.
Interconnection circuits are a necessary facility for interconnection Interconnect Circuits Technical Area RPI 3.75% and hence are regulated as a technical area needed for the fulfilment of BTs obligations under remedies imposed in SMP markets.
Ofcom is in the process of carrying out a review of the Narrowband Market and the Network BT provides the following types of Interconnect Circuits: Charge Controls.
This should be completed by the summer of 2013.
It is expected that the new Charge Controls will come into effect on 1 October 2013.
Customer-Sited Interconnect CSI : BT provides a point of interconnection at the site of the interconnecting CP by extending its network using a 2Mbit s circuit: Key Market Changes Intra-Building Circuit IBC : BT provides a 2Mbit connection between the transmission infrastructure and the switch.
An IBC is not ordered separately by Overall the fixed line calls market is shrinking.
The contraction of the fixed market is driven customers, it will be included with a CSI or ISI circuit ordered: by substitution of broadband and mobile.
In-Span Interconnect ISI : BT and the other CP build out their networks to a Interconnect Circuit volumes have declined slowly throughout the year driven by several handover point located between their switches.
The handover point is normally factors: close to the BT exchange and therefore most of the build is the responsibility of the interconnecting CP: and On-going migration from fixed public narrowband networks to mobile Interconnection Extension Circuit IEC : IECs allow an interconnecting CP with an networks.
existing ISI to extend this point of interconnection to a new building.
In order to CPs building their own 21CN networks and considering requirements for NGN do this, BT provides a 2Mbit s circuit between the two buildings.
An IEC is subject inter-connects with the BT network.
to the same per km charge as a CSI but has a reduced fixed charge.
CPs rationalising their existing interconnections with BT.
CPs moving to Wholesale Calls packages and IP solutions removing the Summary Market Performance requirement for Interconnect Circuits.
Total CCA Operating Return on Another factor is the substitution impact of Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP calls growing Revenue Costs Return MCE as Broadband Service Providers move towards double and triple play offerings in a move to Year m m m % consolidate market share and grow revenue.
2013 43 23 20 38.9% 2012 49 26 23 44.1% Key Regulatory Changes In 2009 10 Ofcom carried out a review of the Fixed Narrowband Services Wholesale Market and a review of the Network Charge Controls.
It was concluded that BT still has SMP in the Technical Area for Interconnect Circuits.
