Section 7 Review of Access Markets Section 7.9 - AISBO up to and including 1Gbit s Definition Summary Market Performance Total CCA AISBO services include: Operating Return on Revenue Costs Return MCE Wholesale Extension Services WES Year m m m % Backhaul Extension Services BES 2013 803 400 403 30.8% 2012 725 510 215 16.2% Backhaul Network Services BNS Key Market Changes Openreach Network Backhaul Services ONBS Ethernet Backhaul Direct EBD There was strong growth in the supply of EAD access products, while volumes of WES products decreased overall.
The main drivers of growth were mobile operators, customers Ethernet Access Direct EAD requirements to migrate from TDM products, and growing demand for high speed Ethernet Wholesale End to End Ethernet Services WEES connectivity from corporate and CPs.
Ofcom concluded in the BCMR that BT has SMP in the wholesale AISBO market UK excluding Hull and, as such, it is appropriate that regulation be imposed on all bandwidths that fall within this market.
These products are covered by the Undertakings obligations and as such will be managed out of Openreach.
Key Regulatory Changes WES, WEES and BES are specifically covered by the Undertakings, and as such are managed out of Openreach.
BNS, ONBS, EAD and EBD are products which have been developed since the Undertakings were agreed but are also covered by these obligations and as such are also managed out of Openreach.
All these products, with the exception of AISBO circuits above 1Gbit s, fell within a currently regulated market during the 2012 13 year and continued to be subject to a cost orientation pricing regime as specified by the relevant SMP conditions in the BCMR published 8 December 2008.
Ofcom published the Leased Line Charge Control statement on 3 July 2009 in which they introduced RPI-7% charge controls for low bandwidth AISBO services.
These controls were effective to 30 September 2012.
Openreach made further price reductions on certain 1Gbit s Ethernet products with effect from 1 October 2012.
Ofcom reviewed the Business Connectivity Market during 2012 13 and have issued their final statement on 28 March 2013 which will be effective for the Current Cost Financial Statements 2014.
The Key changes are: Ofcom identified two separate geographic markets that Openreach operate within - WECLA and UK outside of WECLA and Hull.
Ofcom identified a new market for Multiple Interface Symmetric Broadband Origination MISBO with regulatory remedies outside of WECLA.
