Section 3 Statement of Responsibility Section 3.1 - Statement of Responsibility Annex 2 British Telecommunications plc the Company is required to prepare Current Cost The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and Financial Statements in accordance with the Final Statements and Notifications as described financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom in Section 1.2. governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Under the Financial Capital Maintenance FCM concept of Current Cost Accounting we have revalued our assets in 2013.
The approach taken in the Current Cost Financial Statements is Openreach described in Section 2.1.
We are also required in accordance with the Undertakings to separately report the financial The Current Cost Financial Statements include comparative information for the year ended results of Openreach within our Current Cost Financial Statements as explained in Sections 31 March 2012 first published on 31 July 2012 subject to certain restatements and re- 1.1 and 1.2.
The Undertakings are attached to Annex A of Part 2 of Ofcoms Final presentations detailed in Section 2.1.
Statements on the Strategic Review of Telecommunications, and undertakings in lieu of a reference under the Enterprise Act 2002, issued on the 22 September 2005.
We have prepared the Current Cost Financial Statements in accordance with the Primary Accounting Documents and Secondary Accounting Documents these are the Detailed The Undertakings require us to report the financial results of Openreach, including the Attribution Methods: the Detailed Valuation Methodology: the Long Run Incremental Cost following: Model: Relationships and Parameters and the Wholesale Catalogue.
If there are any Openreach financial information such as headline revenue, cost of sales or gross inconsistencies in the Primary and Secondary Accounting Documents, the Current Cost margin, SG&A, EBITDA, depreciation, operating profit and capital expenditure, Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with the Primary Accounting Documents in revenues broken down into the broad product groups that Openreach provides and the following order of priority: further split between internal and external revenues, separately identified payments the Regulatory Accounting Principles: to other parts of the Company for products that form inputs to Openreach products e. g. electronics : and the Attribution Methods: the Transfer Charging System: Reconciliation of Openreachs revenue and operating profit and other such items as the Accounting Policies: and may be agreed between us and Ofcom with information about Openreach shown in BT Group plcs Annual Report.
the Long Run Incremental Cost Methodology.
The Openreach Financial Statements can be found in Section 10 and include comparative We reconcile the Current Cost Financial Statements to BT Group plcs Annual Report and we information for the year ended 31 March 2012. explain any differences.
The form, content and basis of preparation of the financial results of Openreach follow those We confirm that the Current Cost Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 used in the preparation of the Current Cost Financial Statements as described above, except have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Final Statements and where differences are agreed with Ofcom.
Notifications and the Primary and Secondary Accounting Documents dated 31 July 2013.
We confirm that the Openreach Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013, We confirm that the Current Cost Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 which have been prepared in accordance with the Primary Accounting Documents dated 31 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Final Statements and July 2013, comply with the requirements of the Undertakings dated 22 September 2005.
Notifications and the Primary and Secondary Accounting Documents dated 31 July 2012 subject to certain restatements and re-presentations as detailed in Section 2.1.
We confirm that the Detailed Attribution Methods, the Detailed Valuation Methodology, the Warren Clements Long Run Incremental Cost Model: Relationships and Parameters and the Wholesale Catalogue all dated 31 July 2013 are appropriate to implement the principles contained in Group Controller the Primary Accounting Documents dated 31 July 2013, including the Transparency 31 July 2013 Principle.
