Section 8 Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.7 - Wholesale Trunk Segments Definition Basket Value of X Sub Caps This market covers the provision of trunk segments across core transmission networks.
These TI Basket 3.25% up to RPI - 0% sub-cap on sub-basket trunk services are often used to provide a link between origination services where a TI-Trunk all bandwidths 30 Sept of TISBO terminating segments.
communications provider does not have available network to its nearest point of rental.
2010 : RPI 5% sub-cap on each charge connection.
As in the case of symmetric broadband origination services, trunk segment RPI-1.75% excluding POH charges.
services may be used to provide a wide range of downstream retail services.
from 1 Oct RPI - 0% sub-cap on each charge The particular services provided are the same as described above for symmetric broadband 2010 : POH charges only.
No stand alone trunk segment services were sold to third parties, although such RPI 0% from a service may be requested at some point in the future.
1 Oct 2012 Additionally, LLU backhaul services, RBS backhaul circuits and Netstream 16 Longline may, POC end and third party end RPI 0% No charge can increase more in particular circumstances, involve some trunk segment services as part of the overall equipment charges.
This would correspond to intra core transmission on the BT network.
This element for RBS and Netstream circuits is included in the relevant TISBO market.
All relevant ancillary services RPI 0% None.
Ofcom concluded that a national market exists for trunk segments and that BT has SMP in used in the provision of TI the national market for wholesale trunk segments.
services in scope of the TI Basket.
Key Regulatory Changes These controls run from 1 October 2009 to 30 September 2012.
Ofcoms market review In December 2008 Ofcom published its Final Statement on the BCMR.
Ofcom found BT to statement published 28 March 2013 did not come into effect until 1 April 2013.
From 1 continue to have SMP in the market for trunk segments at all bandwidths.
October 2012 BT was allowed to increase its TI basket prices by RPI 0% which applied to Ofcom increased regulation in the trunk market by imposing a charge control and requiring the end of the financial year on 31 March 2013. prices to be notified at 90 days.
In addition, Ofcom changed the definition of trunk segments from one based on links between two BT SDH Tier 1 nodes to one based on routes Summary Market Performance between defined major urban areas and imposed additional Service Level Total CCA Agreement Service Level Guarantee requirements from December 2008.
Operating Return on Revenue Costs Return MCE Following a separate Consultation, Ofcom published its Statement on the Leased Lines Year m m m % Charge Control on 2 July 2009, imposing a RPI X% charge control on Trunk services as a 2013 76 24 52 34.2% 2012 90 23 67 42.5% remedy to its finding of SMP for BT.
Note that there is a single overall TI basket comprising connection and rental for low bandwidth, high bandwidth and very high bandwidth TISBO Key Market Changes services as well as rental for Trunk services.
For PPCs, there continues to be a fall in demand for traditional TDM circuits as customers On 2 September 2009, Cable & Wireless lodged an appeal with the CAT contesting certain continue to migrate to 21CN services like Ethernet, and other services like Broadband.
parts of Ofcoms Leased Line Charge Control Statement.
The Tribunal issued a direction on Competition and customer demand for alternative technologies is resulting in falling 20 September 2010 directing the controlling percentage for the TI basket to be amended to volumes in this market.
Price changes in the market took place in October 2012 to enable compliance with the charge control and regulatory obligations.
