Section 8 Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.6 - Fixed Call Termination Definition Summary Market Performance Total CCA Call termination includes the conveyance of all signals including relevant control signals Operating Return on required to terminate calls on a customers exchange line from the first point in the network Revenue Costs Return MCE where those signals can be accessed by another communications provider.
Year m m m % 2013 149 116 33 11.3% The economic market is defined as fixed geographic call termination on each individual 2012 153 108 45 14.6% Public Electronic Communications Network PECN.
This definition is slightly narrower than Key Market Changes that recommended by the European Commission, which could be adjusted to include nongeographic call termination services as well.
The difference is deemed justifiable in that Overall the fixed line calls market is shrinking.
The contraction of the fixed market is driven non-geographic call termination markets are subject to different payment arrangements by substitution of mobile and VoIP services.
that are not purely calling party pays and, moreover, they are competitive in the UK.
Call termination has declined steadily throughout the year driven by several factors: Fixed Call Termination Wholesale Service is defined by Ofcom in the Fixed Narrowband Services Wholesale Market Review Statement as an Electronic Communications Service The on-going migration of call termination minutes from fixed public narrowband provided by the Dominant Provider from and over the local exchange to but not including networks to mobile networks.
the conveyance of Signals over an Exchange Line.
The substitution impact of VoIP and social networking websites is growing and has a greater impact as Broadband penetration and speed increase.
This will improve Key Regulatory Changes the availability and quality of VoIP services.
In 2009 10 Ofcom carried out a review of the Fixed Narrowband Services Wholesale Market Similarly growth in LLU lines is eroding call termination volumes.
and a review of the Network Charge Controls.
It was concluded that BT still has SMP in the call termination market.
In the Market Review, Ofcom also found that all providers of fixed geographic call termination had SMP for termination on their own networks.
The Determination on Product Management, Policy and Planning PPP was implemented by Ofcom on 1 July 2004.
The interconnect costs are pooled with the costs of providing end to end calls for BTs retail activities and the costs are recovered over all calls on an equivalent basis.
Each call crossing BTs network is charged PPP only once.
As PPP is incurred on all calls in markets where BT has SMP, it is relevant for the Fixed Call Termination market.
The charge controls for the services in this market are as follows: Service Current NCC 1 Oct 2009 30 Sept 2013 Call Termination RPI 3.75% PPP RPI 1.50% Ofcom is in the process of carrying out a review of the Narrowband Market and the Network Charge Controls.
This is planned to be completed by the summer of 2013.
It is expected that the new Charge Controls will come into effect on 1 October 2013.
