Section 2 Basis of Preparation Section 2.2 - Other Aspects to the Basis of Preparation Annex 22 Section 2.2.
1 - Key changes as a result of certain regulatory decisions Implementation of LLU WLR charge control review The notes below refer to key changes as a result of Ofcoms Statement Changes to BT and The reporting of DSAC and DLRIC data has been removed for the following KCOMs regulatory and financial reporting 2012 13 update issued 25 April 2013 that services: MPF rental: MPF ceases: SMPF ceases: analogue core WLR rental: and impact the Current Cost Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013. analogue core WLR transfer.
Extended and changed disclosure of services in the AISBO market Ethernet Access Direct Local Access connections and rentals have been separately disclosed by bandwidth.
Backhaul Extension Service and Wholesale Extension Service connections have been amalgamated.
Internal EBD volumes have been separately disclosed.
Extended and changed disclosure of services in WBA markets 1 and 2 Wholesale Broadband Connect services have been separately disclosed.
Datastream services have been amalgamated.
Changed disclosure of services in the Call Origination on Fixed Public Narrowband Networks market The Internal Wholesale call origination local exchange stick service has been amalgamated with the Internal Wholesale call origination local exchange stick ISDN service.
Changed disclosure of services in the Fixed Call Termination market The Internal Wholesale call termination local exchange stick service has been amalgamated with the Internal Wholesale call termination local exchange stick ISDN service.
Changed disclosure of services in the Technical Areas Point of Handover market Reporting of external third party point of handover rentals have been split between charges for equipment and charges for circuits.
Point of handover services by bandwidth have only been reported where revenue is over 1m.
Removal of average price FAC column The average price FAC column has been removed from Annex 11, 12 and 13.
