Section 10 Openreach Information Section 10.7 - Openreach Notes Openreach Statements for the financial year 2011 12 including non-SMP activity and 8.8% in 2012 13 and 11.3% in 2011 12 excluding non-SMP results and Openreach Ethernet services AISBO market.
As noted in Section 1.1 - Introduction: Regulation in the UK, on 22 September 2005, BT Such returns are impacted significantly due to changes in the CCA valuation and other offered certain undertakings to Ofcom in lieu of a reference under the Enterprise Act 2002 accounting policies making it difficult to understand the underlying returns.
In accordance with section 5.31 of the Undertakings, with effect from comparison year on year on a more consistent basis, adjustments should be made for these the start of BTs 2006 07 financial year, BTs Regulatory Financial Statements need to items.
After making these adjustments to Openreachs markets, for comparability purposes, separately present the financial results of Openreach and include a reconciliation of the return is 517m for 2012 13 and 823m for 2011 12 resulting in a ROCE of 5.5% and Openreachs revenue, operating profit and other items agreed between BT and Ofcom 8.7% respectively.
The adjustments are as follows: with the financial information about Openreach as shown in BT Group plcs Annual Report.
Wholesale Local Access Co-location activity has been excluded.
BT charges customers The form, content and basis of preparation of the financial results of Openreach follow, to upfront for the cost of equipment and the installation of its exchanges.
Revenue is the fullest extent possible, those used in the preparation of the Current Cost Financial recognised and received in the year of connection but the capitalised costs are depreciated Statements.
over the life of the asset.
The non-matched element between revenue and costs of these items distorts the reported return in the local access market.
The Primary Accounting Documents outline the methodologies used to present the financial results of Openreach within the Current Cost Financial Statements for 2013 Openreach Remove the Current Cost Accounting CCA Holding Gains and losses from each year, as regulatory statement.
The reconciliation of that statement to the Openreach segmental these items are the change in valuation driven by price effects in the year and can swing financial information as shown in BT Group plcs Annual Report is shown for the Profit and significantly in amount and direction from year to year.
Remove Other CCA adjustments, as these items are principally due to methodology changes, BTs Current Cost Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the Final where any changes resulting from change or modification to the valuation methodology are Statements and Notifications imposed on BT by Ofcom, where Ofcom has defined certain taken through the Profit and Loss account.
The specific adjustments are not, in general, markets where BT is deemed to have SMP in the UK.
However, the products sold by expected to recur.
Openreach do not align directly with these definitions of these economic markets.
Reconciling Differences The Primary Accounting Documents, dated 31 July 2013, show how BT has disaggregated the SMP definitions in order to produce the Openreach regulatory statement and The reconciling differences between the Openreach regulatory statement and the reconciliation of the statement to the Openreach financial information shown in BT Group Openreach segmental financial information reported in BT Group plcs Annual Report fall plcs Annual Report.
into the following main categories: Within the Openreach regulatory statement, separate columns are shown for each Full a Basis of preparation under CCA Openreach market and the remaining Part Openreach market activities have been BT Group plcs Annual Report has been prepared under the historical cost convention consolidated into a single column.
HCA, modified for the revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value.
As The Openreach Information includes comparative information for the year ended 31 March directed by Ofcom through the Explanatory Statement and Notification, BTs Current Cost 2012 first published on 31 July 2012, subject to certain restatements and re-presentations Financial Statements have been prepared on a CCA basis, in accordance with the Primary detailed in section 2.1, and prepared in accordance with the Primary Accounting Documents Accounting Documents and the Detailed Valuation Methods, all of which are annually with the same date.
As such, a reconciliation entry has been made to exclude the aggregated CCA adjustments included within the Openreach regulatory statement.
Access Markets Openreach Level Review b Rental charge to Openreach for use of assets owned by BT TSO To assess the underlying performance of Openreach's markets on a like for like basis each year it is necessary to adjust for a number of significant one off items which impact the Within the Openreach segmental financial information reported in BT Group plcs Annual operating profit in one year and not in another.
The return shown in these statements for Report, the results of BT Wholesale include a charge for an appropriate return on capital total Openreach before these items was 10.8% for the financial year 2012 13 and 10.3% where assets are owned by BT TSO e. g. for line cards, electronics and network features but Page 136 Section 10 Openreach Information are used by Openreach.
The Openreach regulatory statements do not include this charge, as the basis for attribution of costs and assets to products in the regulatory accounts is actual costs and assets.
c Results relating to Northern Irelands operations The Current Cost Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the Final Statements and Notifications imposed on BT where Ofcom has defined certain markets in which BT is deemed to have SMP in the UK.
This definition includes BTs Northern Ireland operations.
The Openreach segmental financial information reported in BT Group plcs Annual Report excludes BTs operations in Northern Ireland.
Accordingly, the results of the access network element of BTs Northern Ireland operations form part of the reconciliation.
d Other Trading Differences The Openreach segmental financial information reported in BT Group plc's Annual Report reflect the internal charges between BT's lines of business rather than the allocation of actual costs and capital employed as shown in the Current Cost Financial Statements.
The other trading differences reflect the total of these timing differences across the year.
e Non-traded costs Non-traded costs are shown separately from the Openreach segmented results in BT Group plcs Annual Report.
They are included as a separate line to enable reconciliation between the accounts.
f Internal trading restatement not included in the Current Cost Financial Statements On 13 June 2013 BT announced a restatement and re-presentation to its results for the years ended 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2012.
Some staff in BT TSO, who provided engineering services to the rest of BT, were transferred to Openreach and consequently Openreach recharges these staff costs to the rest of BT.
This adjustment was not included in the Current Cost Financial Statements 2013.
