Section 8 Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.4 - Single transit on fixed public narrowband networks Definition Summary Market Performance Total CCA Single transit is the service an operator provides when a call originates and terminates on Operating Return on networks other than its own and the originating and terminating operators are directly Revenue Costs Return MCE connected at the same transit operators tandem exchange.
The call is therefore transited Year m m m % through a single tandem exchange.
2013 3 3 - 6.4% 2012 4 3 1 11.4% While Inter-tandem conveyance ITC and Inter-tandem transit ITT are essentially Key Market Changes transmission services, single transit is a connection service that connects two operators who are not directly connected.
Volumes of transit calls declined during the year as CPs continue to pass more traffic between each other or hand over traffic to other transit providers.
Key Regulatory Changes In 2009 10 Ofcom carried out a review of the Fixed Narrowband Services Wholesale Market and a review of the Network Charge Controls.
It was concluded that Single Transit is in a separate market to that containing ITC and ITT.
The final Statement confirmed Ofcoms view that the market for Single Transit is not effectively competitive and that the finding of SMP still applies.
However, given the nature of the market no price control remedy is needed.
This means that the market is not bound by the RPI-X formula beyond 30 September 2009.
Ofcom also confirmed that the ITT and ITC market remained competitive, and as a result no SMP was found.
The Single Transit market is still subject to some SMP obligations, including the obligation not to unduly discriminate.
In assessing the level of financial reporting obligations, the review concluded that for the year ended 31 March 2011, cost accounting obligations would be removed but accounting separation obligations would remain.
The Determination on Product Management, Policy and Planning PPP was implemented by Ofcom on 1 July 2004.
The interconnect costs are pooled with the costs of providing end to end calls for BTs retail activities and the costs are recovered over all calls on an equivalent basis.
Each call crossing BTs network is charged PPP only once.
As PPP is incurred on all calls in markets where BT has SMP, it is relevant for the Single Transit market.
The charge controls for the services in this market are as follows: Service Current NCC 1 Oct 2009 30 Sept 2013 PPP RPI 1.50% Ofcom is in the process of carrying out a review of the Narrowband Market and the Network Charge Controls.
This is planned to be completed by the summer of 2013.
It is expected that the new Charge Controls will come into effect on 1 October 2013.
