Overview understanding Our strategy Our perfOrmance gOvernance FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Financial statements and other inFormation glossary of terms Annualised rent is the gross property rent receivable on a cash basis EPRA vacancy rate is the estimated market rental value erV of vacant as at the reporting date.
additionally, it includes the external valuers space divided by erV of the whole portfolio, excluding developments.
estimate of additional rent in respect of unsettled rent review, this is the inverse of the occupancy rate.
turnover rent and sundry income such as that from car parks and Estimated Rental Value ERV is the external valuers opinion as to the commercialisation, less any ground rents payable under head leases.
open market rent which, on the date of valuation, could reasonably Assets under management is the full value of all assets managed be expected to be obtained on a new letting or rent review of a property.
by British land and includes 100% of the value of assets managed Fair value movement is accounting adjustment to change the book but not fully owned.
value of an asset or liability to its market value.
BREEAM Building research establishment environmental assessment Gearing see loan to value ltV.
method assesses the sustainability of buildings against a range of criteria.
Gross investment activity as measured by our share of acquisitions, sales and investment in committed development.
Capital return is calculated as the change in capital value of the UK portfolio, less any capital expenditure incurred, expressed as a Gross rental income is the gross accounting rent receivable quoted percentage of capital employed over the period, as calculated by iPd.
either for the period or on an annualised basis prepared under iFrs capital returns are calculated monthly and indexed to provide a return which requires that rental income from fixed minimum guaranteed rent over the relevant period.
reviews and tenant incentives is spread on a straight-line basis over the entire lease to first break.
this can result in income being recognised Capped rents are subject to a maximum level of uplift at the specified ahead of cash flow.
rent reviews as agreed at the time of letting.
Gross Value Added GVA provides a snapshot of a companys overall Collar rents are subject to a minimum level of uplift at the specified rent contribution to the UK economy, both directly through activities and reviews as agreed at the time of letting.
developers profit is the profit on cost estimated by the valuers.
the Group is the British land company Plc and its subsidiaries and developers profit is typically calculated by the valuers to be a percentage excludes its share of joint ventures and funds on a line-by-line basis of the estimated total development costs, including land and notional i. e. not proportionally consolidated.
Headline rent is the contracted gross rent receivable which becomes development uplift is the total increase in the value after taking account payable after all the tenant incentives in the letting have expired.
of capital expenditure and capitalised interest of properties held for development during the period.
it also includes any developers profit IFRS are the international Financial reporting standards as adopted recognised by valuers in the period.
development construction cost is the total cost of construction of a Income return is calculated as net income expressed as a percentage project to completion, excluding site values and finance costs finance of capital employed over the period, as calculated by iPd.
costs are assumed by the valuers at a notional rate of 6% per annum.
Interest cover is the number of times net interest payable is covered EPRA is the european Public real estate association, the industry body for european reits.
by underlying profit before net interest payable and taxation.
EPRA earnings is the profit after taxation excluding investment and IPd is investment Property databank ltd which produces an development property revaluations and gains losses on disposals, independent benchmark of property returns.
changes in the fair value of financial instruments and associated Lettings and lease renewals are divided between short-term less than close-out costs and their related taxation.
two years lease length and long-term over two years lease length.
EPRA NAV per share is ePra naV divided by the diluted number lettings and renewals are compared both to the previous passing of shares at the period end.
rent as at the start of the financial year and the erV immediately prior to letting.
Both comparisons are made on a net effective basis.
EPRA net assets EPRA NAV are the balance sheet net assets excluding the mark-to-market on effective cash flow hedges and related debt Like-for-like ERV growth is the change in erV over a period on the adjustments and deferred taxation on revaluations.
standing investment properties expressed as a percentage of the erV at the start of the period.
like-for-like erV growth is calculated EPRA net initial yield is the annualised rents generated by the portfolio, monthly and compounded for the period subject to measurement, after the deduction of an estimate of annual recurring irrecoverable as calculated by iPd.
property outgoings, expressed as a percentage of the portfolio valuation adding notional purchasers costs, excluding development properties.
Like-for-like rental income growth is the growth in net rental income on properties owned throughout the current and previous periods EPRA NNNAV is the ePra naV adjusted to reflect the fair value of under review.
this growth rate includes revenue recognition and lease debt and derivatives and to include deferred taxation on revaluations.
accounting adjustments but excludes properties held for development in either period and properties with guaranteed rent reviews.
Financial statements and other information the British land company Plc annual report and accounts 2013 173 Financial statements and other inFormation glossary of terms continued Loan to value LTV is the ratio of principal value of gross debt less cash, Property Income distributions PIds are profits distributed to short-term deposits and liquid investments to the aggregate value of shareholders which are subject to tax in the hands of the shareholders properties and investments.
Pids are normally paid net of withholding tax currently at 20% which the reit pays to the tax authorities on behalf Mark-to-market is the difference between the book value of an asset of the shareholder.
certain types of shareholder i. e. pension funds or liability and its market value.
are tax exempt and receive Pids without withholding tax.
Property companies also pay out normal dividends, called non-Pids, which Net development Value is the estimated end value of a development are treated as normal dividends and not subject to withholding tax.
project as determined by the external valuers for when the building is completed and fully let taking into account tenant incentives and Property valuation is reported by the Groups external valuers.
it is based on the valuers view on erVs, in accordance with usual practice, they report valuations net, after yields, letting voids and rent-frees.
the deduction of the notional purchasers costs, including stamp duty land tax, agent and legal fees.
Net effective rent is the contracted gross rent receivable taking into account any rent-free period or other tenant incentive.
the incentives Rack rented is the term used to describe when the contracted rent are treated as a cost-to-rent and spread over the lease to the earliest is in line with the estimated rental value erV, implying a nil reversion.
Rent-free period see tenant or lease incentives.
Net equivalent yield is the weighted average income return after allowing for notional purchasers costs a property will produce based Rent reviews take place at intervals agreed in the lease typically every upon the timing of the income received.
in accordance with usual five years and their purpose is usually to adjust the rent to the current practice, the equivalent yields as determined by the external valuers market level at the review date.
For upwards only rent reviews, the rent assume rent is received annually in arrears.
will either remain at the same level or increase if market rents have increased at the review date.
Net operating costs are property operating expenses and administrative expenses net of fees and other income.
Rents with fixed and minimum uplifts are either where rents are subject to contracted uplifts at a level agreed at the time of letting: or Net rental income is the rental income receivable in the period after where the rent is subject to an agreed minimum level of uplift at the payment of direct property outgoings which typically comprise ground specified rent review.
rents payable under head leases, void costs, net service charge expenses and other direct irrecoverable property expenses.
net rental income Retail planning consents are separated between a1, a2 and a3 as set is quoted on an accounting basis.
net rental income will differ from out in the town and country Planning Use classes order 2005.
Within annualised net cash rents and passing rent due to the effects of income the a1 consent category, open a1 consent grants planning for any type of from rent reviews, net property outgoings and accounting adjustments retail, while restricted a1 consent places limits on the types of retail that for fixed and minimum contracted rent reviews and lease incentives.
can operate this is typically a restriction that only bulky goods operators are allowed to trade at that site.
Net reversionary yield is the anticipated yield to which the initial yield will rise or fall once the rent reaches the estimated rental value.
class description Use for all any of the following purposes Occupancy rate is the estimated rental value of let units as a percentage a1 shops retail sale of goods other than hot food: post of the total estimated rental value of the portfolio, excluding development office: sale of tickets or as a travel agency: properties.
it includes accommodation under offer or subject to asset sale of sandwiches or other cold food off management where they have been taken back for refurbishment and the premises: hairdressing: direction of are not available to let as at the balance sheet date.
funerals: display of goods for sale: hiring out of domestic or personal goods articles: Over rented is the term used to describe when the contracted rent the reception of goods to be washed, is above the estimated rental value erV.
cleaned or repaired: a retail warehouse club being a retail club where goods are sold, or Overall topped-up net initial yield is the ePra net topped-up displayed for sale, only to persons who are initial yield, adding all contracted uplifts to the annualised rents.
members of that club: or as a night club.
Financial and Financial services: professional services Passing rent is the gross rent, less any ground rent payable under professional other than health or medical : or other head leases.
services services including betting appropriate for a shopping area.
Portfolio valuation movement is the increase in value of the portfolio after taking account of capital expenditure and capitalised interest of d2 assembly cinemas, music and concert halls, properties held at the balance sheet date and sales during the period, and leisure bingo and dance halls but not night clubs, expressed as a percentage of the capital value at the start of the period swimming baths, skating rinks, plus net capital expenditure.
gymnasiums or area for indoor or outdoor sports and recreations.
174 the British land company Plc annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements and other information oVerVieW UnderstandinG oUr strateGy oUr PerFormance GoVernance FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Financial statements and other inFormation Reversion is the increase in rent estimated by the external valuers, Virtual freehold represents a long leasehold tenure for a period where the passing rent is below the estimated rental value.
a peppercorn, or nominal, rent is paid annually.
the increases to rent arise on rent reviews and lettings.
weighted average debt maturity each tranche of Group debt Scrip dividend British land offers its shareholders the opportunity is multiplied by the remaining period to its maturity and the result to receive dividends in the form of shares instead of cash.
this is known is divided by total Group debt in issue at the period end.
weighted average interest rate is the Group loan interest and derivative Tenant or lease incentives are incentives offered to occupiers to enter costs per annum at the period end, divided by total Group debt in issue into a lease.
typically this will be an initial rent-free period, or a cash at the period end.
Under accounting rules the value of lease weighted average lease term is the average lease term remaining to incentives is amortised through the income statement on a straight-line first break, or expiry, across the portfolio weighted by contracted rental basis to the earliest lease termination date.
the calculation excludes short-term The residual site value of a development is calculated as the estimated lettings, residential leases and properties allocated as developments.
net development value, less development profit, all development yield on cost is the estimated annual rent of the completed development construction costs, finance costs assumed at a notional rate of a divided by the total cost of development including site value and finance project to completion and notional site acquisition costs.
the residual costs, accruing at a rate of 4% per annum to the point of assumed rent is determined to be the current site value.
commencement, expressed as a percentage return.
Topping out is a traditional construction ceremony to mark the occasion yield shift is a movement usually expressed in bps in the yield of when the structure of the building reaches the highest point.
a property asset, or like-for-like portfolio, over a given period.
yield Total property return is calculated as the change in capital value, compression is a commonly-used term for a reduction in yields.
less any capital expenditure incurred, plus net income, expressed as a percentage of capital employed over the period, as calculated by iPd.
Total return total accounting return is the growth in ePra naV plus dividends paid, and this can be expressed as a percentage of ePra naV per share at the beginning of the period.
Total Shareholder Return is the growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period, assuming dividends are reinvested to purchase additional units of stock.
Total tax contribution is a more comprehensive view of tax contributions than the accountancy-defined tax figure quoted in most financial statements.
it comprises taxes and levies paid directly, as well as taxes collected from others which we administered.
Turnover rents is where all or a portion of the rent is linked to the sales or turnover of the occupier.
Under rented is the term used to describe when the contracted rent is below the estimated rental value erV, implying a positive reversion.
Underlying earnings per share EPS consists of underlying profit after tax divided by the diluted weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
Underlying profit before tax is the pre-tax ePra earnings measure with additional company adjustments.
adjustments include mark-to-market adjustments on, or profits on disposal of, held for trading assets, markto-market adjustments on the convertible bond and issue costs of the convertible bond.
Financial statements and other information the British land company Plc annual report and accounts 2013 175
