LIST OF DEFINITIONS Capital return In July 2013, EPRA published guidance on the calculation of the following The annual valuation movement arising on the Groups portfolio expressed cost ratios which the Group has also adopted: as a percentage return on the valuation at the beginning of the year EPRA cost ratio including direct vacancy costs adjusted for acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure.
EPRA costs as a percentage of gross rental income less ground rent Diluted figures including share of joint venture gross rental income less ground rent.
Reported results adjusted to include the effects of potential dilutive shares EPRA costs include administrative expenses, other property costs, net issuable under the Groups share option schemes and the convertible bonds.
service charge costs and the share of joint ventures overheads and operating expenses net of any service charge costs, adjusted for Earnings earnings per share EPS service charge costs recovered through rents and management fees.
Earnings represent the profit or loss for the year attributable to equity EPRA cost ratio excluding direct vacancy costs shareholders and are divided by the weighted average number of ordinary Calculated as above, but with an adjustment to exclude direct shares in issue during the financial year to arrive at earnings per share.
Estimated rental value ERV Fair value movement This is the external valuers opinion as to the open market rent which, on An accounting adjustment to change the book value of an asset or liability the date of valuation, could reasonably be expected to be obtained on a to its market value.
new letting or rent review of a property.
Ground rent European Public Real Estate Association EPRA The rent payable by the Group for its leasehold properties.
Under IFRS, An association of Europes leading property companies, investors these leases are treated as finance leases and the cost allocated between and consultants which strives to establish best practices in accounting, interest payable and property outgoings.
reporting and corporate governance and to provide high-quality information to investors.
EPRA published its latest Best Practices Headroom Recommendations in August 2011 www.
com media EPRA This is the amounts left to draw under the Groups loan facilities, i. e. the BPR 2011. pdf.
This includes guidelines for the calculation of the total loan facilities less amounts already drawn.
following performance measures which the Group has adopted.
Interest cover ratios In addition, in accordance with EPRA guidelines, Group specific Gross interest cover ratio adjustments have been made to adjusted profit and adjusted earnings Gross property income, excluding surrender premiums, less ground per share to arrive at the underlying position.
rent divided by interest payable on borrowings less interest receivable EPRA earnings per share and capitalised interest.
Recurring earnings from core operational activities.
Net interest cover ratio Underlying profit earnings per share Net property income, excluding other income, net surrender premiums EPRA profit or earnings per share adjusted for items which are receivable and reverse surrender premiums payable divided by interest excluded to show the underlying trend.
For 2012, these adjustments payable on borrowings and non-utilisation fees.
were for rates credits and the foreign exchange movement.
Interest rate swap EPRA net asset value per share A financial instrument where two parties agree to exchange an interest rate NA V adjusted to exclude certain items not expected to crystallise in a obligation for a predetermined amount of time.
These are generally used long-term investment property business model.
by the Group to convert floating rate debt to fixed rates.
EPRA triple net asset value per share EPRA NA V adjusted to include the fair values of i financial instruments, Investment Property Databank Limited IPD ii debt and iii deferred taxes on revaluations, where applicable.
IPD produces independent benchmarks of property returns.
The Group EPRA net initial yield NIY measures its performance against both the Central London Offices Index Annualised rental income based on the cash rents passing at the and the All UK Property Index.
balance sheet date, less non-recoverable property operating expenses, divided by the market value of the EPRA property portfolio, increased Key Performance Indicators KPIs by estimated purchasers costs.
Activities and behaviours, aligned to both business objectives and EPRA topped-up net initial yield individual goals, which measure the Groups performance against This measure incorporates an adjustment to the EPRA NIY in respect of appropriate benchmarks.
the expiration of rent free periods or other unexpired lease incentives Lease incentives such as discounted rent periods and stepped rents.
Any incentive offered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
Typically the EPRA vacancy rate incentive will be an initial rent free or half rent period, stepped rents, or a Estimated rental value ERV of immediately available space divided by cash contribution to fit-out or similar costs.
ERV of the EPRA portfolio.
EPRA like-for-like rental income growth Loan-to-value ratio LTV The growth in rental income on properties owned throughout the Drawn debt divided by the fair value of the property portfolio.
Drawn debt current and previous years under review.
This growth rate includes is equal to drawn facilities less cash and the unamortised equity element revenue recognition and lease accounting adjustments but excludes of the convertible bonds.
properties held for development in either year, surrender premiums Mark-to-market and properties acquired or disposed of in either year.
The difference between the book value of an asset or liability and its market value.
NAV gearing Net debt divided by net assets.
166 Net assets per share or net asset value NAV Underlying portfolio Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of ordinary shares in Properties that have been held for the whole of the year, i. e. excluding issue at the balance sheet date.
any acquisitions or disposals made during the year.
Net debt Underlying valuation increase Borrowings and derivative financial instruments plus bank overdraft less The valuation increase on the underlying portfolio.
Yields Property income distribution PID Net initial yield Dividends from profits of the Groups tax-exempt property rental business Annualised rental income based on the cash rents passing at the under the REIT regulations.
balance sheet date, less non-recoverable property operating expenses, divided by the market value of the property, increased by estimated Non-PID purchasers costs.
Dividends from profits of the Groups taxable residual business.
Reversionary yield The anticipated yield, which the net initial yield will rise to once the rent Real Estate Investment Trust REIT reaches the estimated rental values.
The Government established REIT status in the UK in 2007 to remove tax True equivalent yield inequalities between different real estate investors and aimed to improve The constant capitalisation rate which, if applied to all cash flows from overall investor access to real estate.
REITs are companies which are the portfolio, including current rent, reversions to valuers estimated exempt from corporate taxation on profits from property rental income and rental value and such items as voids and expenditures, equates to the capital gains on the sale of investment properties.
valuation having taken into account notional purchasers costs.
Rent is REITs must distribute 90% of UK rental income in the form of property assumed to be received quarterly in advance.
This makes the tax implications of investing in Yield shift REITs equivalent to investing directly in property.
REITs are also required to A movement in the yield of a property asset, or like-for-like portfolio, meet certain conditions including the proportion of total profits and assets over a given year.
Yield compression is a commonly-used term for a accounted for by their property rental businesses.
They remain liable to reduction in yields.
corporation tax on non-property investment businesses e. g. management fees and interest receivable.
Sustainability and corporate responsibility Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment The UK has had a tax exempt real estate regime since 1 January 2007 Method BREEAM and Derwent London has been a REIT since 1 July 2007.
BREEAM is an environmental impact assessment method for nondomestic buildings.
Performance is measured across a series of ratings: Rent reviews Pass, Good, Very Good, Excellent and Outstanding.
Rent reviews take place at intervals agreed in the lease typically every five years and their purpose is usually to adjust the rent to the current market Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA level at the review date.
For upwards only rent reviews, the rent will either The government department responsible for environmental protection, remain at the same level or increase if market rents are higher at the food production and standards, agriculture, fisheries and rural review date.
communities in the United Kingdom.
Reversion Greenhouse gas GHG The reversion is the amount by which the rental value as estimated by A gas that contributes to the greenhouse effect by absorbing the Groups external valuers is higher than the rent roll of a property or infra-red radiation.
The reversion is derived from contractual rental increases, rent reviews, lease renewals and the letting of vacant space.
Transmission and distribution T&D The emissions associated with the transmission and distribution losses in Scrip dividend the grid from the transportation of electricity from its generation source.
Derwent London offers its shareholders the opportunity to receive dividends in the form of shares instead of cash.
This is known as a scrip dividend.
Well to tank WTT The emissions associated with extracting, refining and transporting Total property return TPR raw fuel to the vehicle, asset or process under scrutiny.
The annual capital appreciation, net of capital expenditure, plus the net annual rental income received, expressed as a percentage of capital WRAP employed property value at the beginning of the year plus capital WRAP is a not-for-profit organisation which assists organisations to expenditure.
become more efficient in the use of natural resources.
Total return The movement in EPRA adjusted net asset value per share between the beginning and the end of each financial year plus the dividend per share paid during the year expressed as a percentage of the EPRA adjusted net asset value per share at the beginning of the year.
Total shareholder return TSR The growth in the ordinary share price as quoted on the London Stock Exchange plus dividends per share received for the year, expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning of the year.
Designed and produced by MerchantCantos www.
com Printed by Empress Litho Limited Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2013 167 Derwent London plc Registered office: 25 Savile Row London W1S 2ER T 44 0 20 7659 3000 www.
