STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge: records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial statements which give a true and fair view of the assets, financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets of the liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the Company, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors the adoption of a going concern basis for the preparation report and Directors remuneration report which comply with the of the financial statements continues to be appropriate based on requirements of the Companies Act 2006. the foregoing and having reviewed the forecast financial position The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the of the Group: and financial statements in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and The Directors are also required to prepare financial statements for the performance of the business and the position of the Company and Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, as adopted by the European Union IFRS and Article 4 of the IAS together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Regulation.
The Directors have chosen to prepare financial statements that they face.
for the Company in accordance with IFRSs.
The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken Group financial statements as a whole, is fair, balanced, and understandable and provides the International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups present fairly for each financial year the Groups and Companys performance, business model and strategy.
financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events Financial statements are published on the Groups website in and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition accordance with legislation in the United Kingdom governing the criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, which may vary International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The maintenance and integrity preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all of the Groups website is the responsibility of the Directors.
The circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with Directors responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity of the all applicable IFRSs.
A fair presentation also requires the Directors to: financial statements contained therein.
consistently select and apply appropriate accounting policies: On behalf of the Board.
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable JOHN D. BURNS, information: and CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand DAMIAN M. A. WISNIEWSKI, the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on FINANCE DIRECTOR the entitys financial position and financial performance.
27 FEBRUARY 2014 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2013 77
