Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting AGM of James Fisher and Sons plc will be held at the Abbey House Hotel, Abbey Road, Barrow-in-Furness, LA13 0PA on Thursday 1 May 2014 at 12 noon to consider and, if thought fit, to pass Resolutions 1 to 13 inclusive as ordinary resolutions and Resolutions 14 to 16 inclusive as special resolutions.
Ordinary Business Resolution 1 To receive the Annual Accounts and the Reports of the Directors and the auditor thereon for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Resolution 2 To approve the Remuneration Policy Report contained in the Directors Remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Resolution 3 To approve the Directors Remuneration report other than the part containing the Remuneration Policy Report for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Resolution 4 To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 13.54p per ordinary share.
Resolution 5 To re-elect Mr C J Rice as a Director of the Company.
Resolution 6 To re-elect Mr N P Henry as a Director of the Company.
Resolution 7 To re-elect Mr S C Kilpatrick as a Director of the Company.
Resolution 8 To re-elect Mr M S Paul as a Director of the Company.
Resolution 9 To elect Mr D G Moorhouse as a Director of the Company.
Resolution 10 To elect Mr M J L Salter as a Director of the Company.
Resolution 11 To appoint KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.
Resolution 12 To authorise the Directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Special Business Resolution 13 That the Directors of the Company be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for, and convert any security into, shares in the Company Rights up to an aggregate nominal amount of 4,174,918 provided that this authority shall expire on the date of the next AGM of the Company or, if earlier, on 30 June 2015, save that the Company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such authority which would or might require shares to be allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry and the Directors shall be entitled to allot shares and grant Rights pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired: and, that all authorities previously granted to the Directors to allot shares and grant Rights that remain unexercised at the commencement of this meeting be and are hereby revoked.
Resolution 14 Special Resolution That subject to the passing of Resolution 13, the Directors be hereby empowered to allot equity securities as defined in section 560 of the Act of the Company for cash either pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 13 and or where the allotment is treated as an allotment of equity securities under section 560 2 b of the Act, in either case as if section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to such allotment provided that this power shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of securities in favour of the holders of ordinary shares on the register of members at such record date as the Directors may determine and other persons entitled to participate therein where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of the ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be practicable to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held or deemed to be held by them on any such record date, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue of shares being represented by depositary receipts or any other matter: and 107 James Fisher and Sons plc Notice of Annual General Meeting continued b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above to any person or persons of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 626,238: and shall expire upon the expiry of the general authority conferred by Resolution 13 above, save that the Company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors shall be entitled to allot equity securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Resolution 15 Special Resolution The Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 701 of the Act to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act on the London Stock Exchange of up to a maximum aggregate of 2,504,951 ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company at a price per share exclusive of expenses of not less than 25p and not more than 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for such ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Official List, for the five business days immediately preceding the day of purchase: unless previously renewed, revoked or varied, such authority will expire at the close of the next AGM of the Company, or, if earlier, on 30 June 2015 save that the Company may purchase ordinary shares at any later date where such purchase is pursuant to any contract or contracts made by the Company before the expiry of this authority.
Resolution 16 Special Resolution That any general meeting other than an AGM may be called by not less than 14 days clear notice.
By order of the Board Michael Hoggan Company Secretary 3 March 2014 Registered office: Fisher House, PO Box 4, Barrow-in-Furness, Cumbria, LA14 1HR Registered in England number: 211475 108 Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc Notes 1.
Any member who has not elected to receive the Annual Report and Accounts for 2013 may obtain copies by writing to the Company Secretary, Fisher House, PO Box 4, Barrow-in-Furness, Cumbria, LA14 1HR.
Members who wish to receive the printed Annual Report and Accounts, free of charge, in future years should write to the Companys Registrars, Freepost RLYX-GZTU-KRRG, SAS, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 9ZA.
Any member entitled to vote at the above meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and, on a poll, vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend the meeting in order to represent a member.
A proxy could be the Chairman, another director of the Company or if you wish the proxy to speak on your behalf another person who has agreed to attend and represent a member.
Details of how to appoint the Chairman or another person as a proxy using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attaching to different shares held by him.
Completion of the proxy form will not preclude a member from attending and voting in person, in which case that members proxy appointment will automatically be terminated.
Proxy forms, duly executed including any authority under which it is executed or a copy of the authority certified notarially, should be returned to Capita Asset Services, PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU.
Alternatively you may submit your proxy form online by accessing the Shareholder portal at www.
com, logging in and selecting the proxy voting link.
If you have not previously registered for electronic communications, you will first be asked to register as a new user, for which you will require your investor code which can be found on your proxy card, share certificate or dividend tax voucher, family name and post code if resident in the UK.
In each case your proxy instruction must be received no later than 12 noon on 29 April 2014.
If you are a CREST member, see note 4 below.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments also applies in relation to amended instructions, and any attempt to amend a proxy appointment after the relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid proxy appointments are received in respect of the same share in respect of the same meeting, the one which is last sent shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others.
The right to appoint a proxy cannot be exercised by persons who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person : they can only be exercised by the member.
However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement between him and the member by whom he was nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person does not have such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
Nominated persons should contact the registered member by whom they were nominated in respect of these arrangements.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual available via www.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK and Ireland Limiteds EUI specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID number RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
A member of the Company which is a corporation may authorise a person or persons to act as its representative s at the AGM.
In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such representative may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
It is no longer necessary to nominate a designated corporate representative.
Representatives of shareholders that are corporations will have to produce evidence of their proper appointment when attending the general meeting.
Please contact our Registrar if you need any further guidance on this.
Copies of the Directors service contracts, the terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors, together with a copy of the Companys Articles of Association are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during usual business hours and will also be available at the place of the AGM from 11.30 a. m. on the date of the meeting until the close of the meeting.
Members satisfying the thresholds in section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a statement on its website setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the meeting, that the members propose to raise at the meeting.
The Company cannot require the members requesting the publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the website must also be sent to the Companys auditors no later than the time it makes its statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required to publish on its website.
The Company must cause to be answered at the meeting any question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting which is put by a member attending the meeting, except where: a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
109 James Fisher and Sons plc Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 9.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Act, can be found at www.
A member may not use any electronic address provided by the Company in this document or with any proxy appointment form or in any website for communication with the Company for any purpose in relation to the meeting other than as expressly stated in it.
Only persons entered on the register of members of the Company at 6.00pm on 29 April 2014 or, if the meeting is adjourned, at 6.00pm on the date which is two days prior to the adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote and the number of votes they may cast at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
As at 3 March 2014 being the latest practical date before the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital consists of 50,099,015 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each, and 100,000 preference shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company are 50,199,015.
There are no shares in treasury.
As soon as practicable following the AGM, the results of the voting at the meeting and the number of votes cast for and against and the number of votes withheld in respect of each resolution will be announced via a Regulatory Information Service and also placed on the Companys website at www.
Ordinary Business Explanatory Notes Resolution 1 Annual Report The Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors of a public company to lay its Annual Report before the Company in general meeting, giving shareholders the opportunity to ask questions on the contents.
The Annual Report comprises the accounts, the auditors report, the Directors report, the Directors Remuneration report and, for the first time, the Strategic report.
The Company proposes, as an ordinary resolution, a resolution on its Annual Report in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Resolution 2 Approval of the Directors Remuneration Policy For the first time and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company proposes an ordinary resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy contained in the Directors Remuneration report.
The proposed policy is set out on pages 31 to 34 of the Annual Report.
The vote on Resolution 2 is a binding vote and, if passed, will mean that the Directors can only make remuneration payments in accordance with the approved policy.
The Company is required to ensure that a vote on its Remuneration Policy takes place annually unless the approved policy remains unchanged, in which case the Company will propose a similar resolution at least every three years.
Resolution 3 Approval of the Directors Remuneration Report In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company proposes an ordinary resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration report for the financial year ended 31 December 2013.
The Directors Remuneration report is set out on pages 30 to 41 of the Annual Report and, for the purposes of this resolution, does not include the parts of the Directors Remuneration report containing the Directors Remuneration Policy which is set out on pages 31 to 34.
The vote on this resolution is advisory only and the Directors entitlement to remuneration is not conditional on its being passed.
Resolution 4 Declaration of final dividend A final dividend can only be paid after it has been approved by the shareholders in general meeting and may not exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 13.54p per ordinary share in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2013.
If the meeting approves Resolution 4, the final dividend will be paid on 9 May 2014 to ordinary shareholders who are on the register at the close of business on 11 April 2014.
It is proposed to pay the dividend.
Resolutions 5 to 10 Re-election and election of Directors The Companys Articles of Association require that one third of the Directors will retire each year and that each Director must stand for reelection at least every three years.
However the UK Corporate Governance Code provides that all Directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to re-election by their shareholders every year.
In accordance with this provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has decided that all Directors shall retire at the AGM and offer themselves for re-election.
David Moorhouse and Michael Salter who each joined the Company on 1 August 2013 as Non-Executive Directors will be proposed for election for the first time at this years AGM.
Following performance reviews the Chairman and the Board believe that each of the Directors standing for re-election or election continue to perform effectively and with commitment to their role including commitment of time for Board and Committee meetings and other duties.
The Board also considers that each of the Non-Executive Directors is independent in character and judgement.
Each of Resolutions 5 to 10 shall be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
Biographical details of each of our Directors appear on page 22 of the Annual Report.
Resolutions 11 and 12 Appointment of auditor auditors remuneration These resolutions propose the appointment of the Companys auditor and authorise the Directors to agree the auditors remuneration.
The Company is required to appoint an auditor at each general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next such meeting.
KPMG Audit Plc has notified the Company that it is instigating a wind down of its business.
It is proposed that KPMG LLP be appointed as auditor of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of the AGM until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company, and that the auditors remuneration be fixed by the Directors.
In connection with the resignation of KPMG Audit Plc, the Company is required as a matter of law to send you a copy of the statement of circumstances connected with the resignation of the Companys auditor.
This statement is delivered to shareholders with the Annual Report.
110 Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc Special Business Explanatory Notes Resolution 13 Authority to allot shares Authority is given to the Directors to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for, and convert any security into shares in the Company up to a total nominal amount of 4,174,918 16,699,672 ordinary shares representing approximately 33% of the nominal value of the Companys total issued ordinary share capital as at 3 March 2014 being the latest practical date before publication of this Notice.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2015, or, if earlier, on 30 June 2015 and replaces an authority granted on 2 May 2013 which expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors have no present intention to exercise this authority.
At 3 March 2014 the Company does not hold any treasury shares.
Resolution 14 - Permission to allot a limited number of shares other than to existing shareholders This resolution which will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks to renew the authority conferred on the Directors at last years AGM to issue equity securities of the Company for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
Other than in connection with a rights or other similar issue or scrip dividend where difficulties arise in offering shares to certain overseas shareholders and in relation to fractional entitlements the authority contained in this resolution will be limited to an aggregate nominal value of 626,838 representing 2,504,951 ordinary shares which represents approximately 5% of the Companys issued equity share capital as at 3 March 2014, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this notice.
The renewed authority will remain in force until the date of the next AGM or on 30 June 2015, whichever is the earlier and replaces the authority granted on 2 May 2013 which expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
It is a standard resolution for most UK listed companies each year.
In line with best practice, the Company has not issued more than 7.5% of its issued share capital on a non-pro rata basis over the last three years and the Directors confirm their intention to follow the best practice set out in the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles which provides that companies should not issues shares for cash representing more than 7.5% of the Companys issued share capital in any rolling three-year period, other than to existing shareholders, without prior consultation with shareholders.
Resolution 15 Authority to purchase own shares This special resolution, gives the Company authority to purchase in the market up to 2,504,951 of its ordinary shares of 25p each representing approximately 5% of the Companys total issued ordinary share capital.
The minimum and maximum prices at which such shares can be purchased is as stated in the resolution.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2015, or on 30 June 2015, whichever is earlier, and replaces a similar authority granted on 2 May 2013 which expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
If any ordinary shares purchased pursuant to this authority are not held by the Company as treasury shares then such shares would be immediately cancelled in which event the number of ordinary shares in issue would be reduced.
As at 3 March 2014, being the latest practical date before publication of this Notice, there were options over ordinary shares in the capital of the Company representing 2.75% of the Companys total issued share capital.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares was exercised in full and those shares were subsequently cancelled, these options would represent 2.89% of the Companys total issued share capital.
The Directors have no present intention to exercise this authority and in reaching their decision to purchase ordinary shares will take into account, amongst other things the Companys cash resources and capital requirements, the effect of any purchase on earnings per share and whether it is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Resolution 16 Authority to hold general meetings other than annual AGMs on 14 clear days notice This special resolution renews an authority given at last years AGM and is required as a result of section 307A of the 2006 Act coming into force.
The Company is currently able to call general meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice.
In order to be able to preserve this ability, shareholders must have approved the calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
Resolution 16, which is proposed as a special resolution, seeks such approval.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine for general meetings, but only where the flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
Recommendation The Directors consider that the proposed resolutions set out in the Notice of AGM are in the best interests of the Company and to its shareholders as a whole and they unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of them, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their own holdings of shares in the Company.
111 James Fisher and Sons plc Investor information Registered Office and Advisers Financial Calendar Company Secretary Handelsbanken 9 April 2014 and registered office First Floor East Ex dividend date for 2013 final dividend Bridge Mills M J Hoggan 11 April 2014 Stramongate James Fisher and Sons plc Record date Kendal LA9 4UB Fisher House, PO Box 4 1 May 2014 HSBC Bank plc Barrow-in-Furness Annual General Meeting 8 Canada Square Cumbria LA14 1HR London E14 5HQ 9 May 2014 Registered no.
211475 Payment of 2013 final dividend Lloyds TSB Bank plc Registrars 8th Floor August 2014 Capita Asset Services 40 Spring Gardens Announcement of 2014 interim results 34 Beckenham Road Manchester M2 1EN Beckenham Yorkshire Bank Kent The Chancery BR3 4TU 58 Spring Gardens Auditors Manchester KPMG Audit Plc M2 1YB St James Square Manchester Merchant bankers M2 6DS E C Hambro Rabben and Partners Ltd 32-33 St Jamess Place Bankers London Barclays Bank PLC SW1A 1NR Barclays Commercial Bank Stockbrokers 1st Floor Investec Bank UK Limited 3 Hardman Street 2 Gresham Street Spinningfields London Manchester EC2V 7QP M3 3HF DBS Bank Ltd N 1 Singer London Branch Earl Grey House 4th Floor 75-85 Grey Street Paternoster House NE1 6EF 65 St Pauls Churchyard London EC4M 8AB This Annual Report has been prepared for the members of the Company only.
The Company, its directors, employees and agents do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person in connection with this document and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements that are subject to future matters including, amongst other matters, the economic and business circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries and markets in which the Group operates and the availability of financing to the Group.
As such the forwardlooking statements involve risk and uncertainty.
Accordingly, whilst it is believed the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable at the date of publication of this Annual Report they may be affected by a wide range of matters which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements will not be updated during the year.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast Design by Harrington McDermott Ltd. www.
com 112 Tel 44 0 161 246 4254 KPMG Audit Plc Fax 44 0 161 246 4040 Consumer & Industrial Markets DX 724620 Manchester 42 St James' Square david.
co. uk Manchester M2 6DS United Kingdom Private & confidential James Fisher and Sons Plc Fisher House Our ref db hm PO Box 4 Barrow in Furness Lancs LA14 1HR 18 March 2014 Dear Sirs Statement to James Fisher & Sons Plc no.
00211475 on ceasing to hold office as auditors pursuant to section 519 of the Companies Act 2006 The circumstances connected with our ceasing to hold office are that our company, KPMG Audit Plc, has instigated an orderly wind down of business.
KPMG LLP, an intermediate parent, will immediately be seeking appointment as statutory auditor.
We request that any correspondence in relation to this statement be sent to our registered office 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL marked for the attention of the Audit Regulation Department.
Yours faithfully, KPMG Audit Plc KPMG Audit Plc, a UK public limited company, is a subsidiary of KPMG Europe LLP and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative, a Swiss Registered in England No 3110745 entity.
Registered office: 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL
