Notice of meeting Notice is hereby given that the fty-sixth Annual General Meeting b this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next of Great Portland Estates plc will be held at Chandos House, Annual General Meeting of the Company after the 2 Queen Anne Street, London W1, on Thursday, 4 July 2013 at passing of this resolution, or, if earlier, at the close of 11.30am, for the purposes set out below, with the Board available business on 1 October 2014: and from 11.00am to meet shareholders and answer questions: c all previous unutilised authorities under section 551 of the 1.
To receive and adopt the audited financial statements Companies Act 2006 shall cease to have effect save to together with the directors and auditors reports for the year the extent that the same are exercisable pursuant to ended 31 March 2013. section 551 7 of the Companies Act 2006 by reason of any offer or agreement made prior to the date of this 2.
To authorise the payment of a final dividend for the year Resolution which would or might require shares to be ended 31 March 2013. allotted or rights to be granted on or after that date.
To approve the Directors remuneration report.
To re-elect Toby Courtauld as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Nick Sanderson as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Neil Thompson as a director of the Company.
a in accordance with Article 10 of the Companys Articles 7.
To re-elect Martin Scicluna as a director of the Company.
of Association the Articles, the directors be given power to allot equity securities for cash: 8.
To re-elect Charles Irby as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Jonathan Nicholls as a director of the Company.
b the power under paragraph a above other than in connection with a rights issue, as dened in Article 10 10.
To re-elect Jonathan Short as a director of the Company.
of the Articles shall be limited to the allotment of equity 11.
To elect Elizabeth Holden as a director of the Company.
securities having a nominal amount not exceeding in 12.
To reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditors.
To authorise the directors to agree the remuneration of c this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next the auditors.
Annual General Meeting of the Company after the As special business, to consider and, if thought t, to pass the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the close of following Resolution 14 as an ordinary resolution, and those business on 1 October 2014: and numbered 15 to 17 inclusive as special resolutions.
The items of d all previous unutilised authorities under sections 570 and special business are explained in more detail in the Report of the 573 of the Companies Act 2006 shall cease to have effect.
That, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Ordinary resolution Company be and it is hereby generally and unconditionally 14.
That: authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 of the Companies Act 2006 of its shares a the directors be authorised to allot shares in the Company on such terms and in such manner as the directors may or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, determine, provided that: shares in the Company: a the maximum number of shares which may be purchased i in accordance with Article 9 of the Companys Articles is 51,554,530: of Association the Articles, up to a maximum nominal amount of 14,330,256 such amount to be reduced b the maximum price at which shares may be purchased by the nominal amount of any equity securities as shall not be more than the higher of an amount equal to dened in Article 10 of the Articles allotted under 5% above the average of the middle market quotations paragraph ii below in excess of 14,330,256 : and for the shares as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business days preceding the ii comprising equity securities as dened in Article 10 date of purchase and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Articles, up to a maximum nominal amount of of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003, and 28,660,512 such amount to be reduced by any the minimum price shall be 12.5 pence, being the nominal shares allotted or rights granted under paragraph value of the shares, in each case exclusive of expenses: i above in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue as dened in Article 10 of the Articles : 134 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013 c the authority conferred by this Resolution shall expire at 17.
That, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting may Company after the passing of this Resolution or at the be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
close of business on 1 October 2014, whichever is the Registered ofce: earlier, save that the Company may before such expiry 33 Cavendish Square enter into a contract or contracts for purchase under London W1G 0PW which such purchase may be completed or executed By order of the Board wholly or partly after the expiration of this authority and may make a purchase of shares in pursuance of any such contract: and d all existing authorities for the Company to make market purchases of its shares are revoked, except in relation to the purchase of shares under a contract or contracts Desna Martin Company Secretary concluded before the date of this Resolution and which 22 May 2013 has or have not yet been executed.
Notes to notice of meeting 1.
Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and c T he Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in vote on their behalf at the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001.
Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a d C REST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for In order to be valid an appointment of proxy must be returned by one of the following methods: any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the Companys Registrar at the address shown input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take on the form of proxy: or or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST accordance with the procedures set out below, system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their and in each case must be received by the Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours before the CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST time of the meeting.
Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction 9.
The Company species that only those shareholders registered in the Register of Members of the as described in paragraph 8 below will not prevent a shareholder attending the Annual General Company as at 6.00pm on 2 July 2013 or in the event of any adjournment, at 6.00pm on the date which Meeting and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
A shareholder must inform the Companys is two days before the date of the adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting Registrar in writing of any termination of the authority of a proxy.
in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time and changes to the Register after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her 10.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy 11.
Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting the threshold requirements set out in appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the 4.
The statement of rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraph 1 above conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstance does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in this paragraph can only be exercised by connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold ofce since the previous meeting at which shareholders of the Company.
annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the members requesting such website publication to pay its expenses 5.
Nominated persons are reminded that they should contact the registered holder of their shares and not in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006, and it must forward the statement the Company on matters relating to their investments in the Company.
to the Companys auditors not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
As at 21 May 2013 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice the The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Companys issued share capital consists of 343,926,149 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Company has been required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on its website.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 21 May 2013 are 343,926,149.
A member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be 7.
Copies of all directors contracts are available for inspection at 33 Cavendish Square, London W1G 0PW answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer during normal business hours on any weekday English public holidays excepted and will be available need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual disclosure of condential information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of General Meeting.
an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the 8. a C REST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy meeting that the question be answered.
appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual on 13.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 can the Euroclear website www.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST be found at www.
co. uk investors agm sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, 14.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of Meeting or any related documents should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the including the form of proxy to communicate with the Company for any other purposes other than those appropriate action on their behalf.
b In order for a pro xy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST 15.
Voting on all resolutions will be conducted by way of a poll rather than on a show of hands.
This will result message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear in a more accurate reection of the views of shareholders by ensuring that every vote is recognised, UK & Ireland Limited specications and must contain the information required for such instructions, including all votes of shareholders who are unable to attend the meeting but who appoint a proxy for the as described in the CREST Manual.
The message regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment meeting.
On a poll, each shareholder has one vote for every share held.
of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID: RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 135
