Glossary Core West End Non-PIDs Areas of London with W1 and SW1 postcodes.
Dividends from profits of the Groups taxable residual business.
Earnings Per Share EPS Portfolio Internal Rate of Return IRR profit after tax divided by the weighted average number The rate of return that if used as a discount rate and applied of ordinary shares in issue.
to the projected cash ows from the portfolio would result in a net present value of zero.
EPRA adjustments Standard calculation methods for adjusted EPS and NAV as Property Income Distributions PIDs set out by the European Public Real Estate Association EPRA Dividends from profits of the Groups tax-exempt property in their Best Practice and Policy Recommendations.
EPRA vacancy rate REIT The element of a property which is unoccupied but available UK Real Estate Investment Trust.
for letting, expressed as the ERV of the vacant space divided by the ERV of the total portfolio.
Rent roll The annual contracted rental income.
Estimated Rental Value ERV The market rental value of lettable space as estimated Return on shareholders equity by the Companys valuers at each balance sheet date.
The growth in the EPRA diluted net assets per share plus dividends per share for the period expressed as a percentage of Fair value the EPRA net assets per share at the beginning of the period.
The amount as estimated by the Companys valuers for which a property should exchange on the date of valuation between Reversionary or under-rented a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms-length transaction The percentage by which ERV exceeds rents passing, after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted together with the estimated rental value of vacant space.
knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
In line with market practice, values are stated net of purchasers costs.
Reversionary yield The anticipated yield, which the initial yield will rise to once F&BS the rent reaches the ERV.
Finance and Business Services sector.
Total Property Return TPR IPD Capital growth in the portfolio plus net rental income derived The Investment Property Databank Limited IPD is a company from holding these properties plus profit on sale of disposals that produces an independent benchmark of property returns.
expressed as a percentage return on the periods opening value.
IPD central London Total Shareholder Return TSR An index, compiled by IPD, of the central and inner London The growth in the ordinary share price as quoted on the London properties in their monthly and quarterly valued universes.
Stock Exchange plus dividends per share received for the period expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning Like-for-like portfolio of the period.
Properties that have been held for the whole of the period of account.
Triple net asset value NNNAV NAV adjusted to include the fair value of the Groups financial Loan To Value LTV liabilities on a diluted basis.
Total bank loans, private placement notes and debenture stock, net of cash, including our share of joint ventures balances True equivalent yield expressed as a percentage of the market value of the property The constant capitalisation rate which, if applied to all cash ows portfolio including our share of joint ventures.
from an investment property, including current rent, reversions to current market rent and such items as voids and expenditures, Net assets per share or Net Asset Value NAV equates to the market value having taken into account notional Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of ordinary purchasers costs.
Assumes rent is received quarterly in advance.
shares at the balance sheet date.
Net gearing Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC Total borrowings less short-term deposits and cash as The weighted average pre-tax cost of the Groups debt and a percentage of adjusted equity shareholders funds.
the notional cost of the Groups equity used as a benchmark to assess investment returns.
Net initial yield Annual net rents on investment properties as a percentage Weighted Average Unexpired Lease Term WAULT of the investment property valuation having added notional The Weighted Average Unexpired Lease Term expressed in years.
136 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013
