Company independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Opinion on financial statements Great Portland Estates plc In our opinion the parent Company financial statements: We have audited the parent company financial statements of give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as Great Portland Estates plc for the year ended 31 March 2013 at 31 March 2013: which comprise the parent Company balance sheet and the have been properly prepared in accordance with United related notes i to vi.
The financial reporting framework that has Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, Opinion on other matter prescribed by the in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act Companies Act 2006 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might In our opinion: state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and Act 2006: and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this the information given in the Directors Report for the financial report, or for the opinions we have formed.
year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors Matters on which we are required to and auditor report by exception As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a in our opinion: true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices received from branches not visited by us: or Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and are not made: or disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give we have not received all the information and explanations we reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free require for our audit.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Other matter policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and We have reported separately on the Group financial statements have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the of Great Portland Estates plc for the year ended 31 March 2013. reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent Claire Faulkner Senior statutory auditor material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP implications for our report.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 22 May 2013 Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 97 Section 4 Governance In this section we present the report of the directors, explain how we maintain a high standard of corporate governance and describe our remuneration policy and principles.
100 Corporate governance 113 Directors remuneration report 128 Report of the directors 132 Directors responsibilities statement 133 Analysis of ordinary shareholdings 134 Notice of meeting 98 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013 Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 99
