Section 2 82 Financial Statements Dividend performance and position as well as business risks successfully despite For the year ended 31 December the current uncertain economic borrowing facilities are described in per share was paid on 22 November the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 25. the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and attributable to PIDs.
The second statements includes the Groups the Group have adequate resources dividend of 2.9p per share will to continue in operational existence be payable on 21 May 2014 to for the foreseeable future.
Thus they shareholders on the register on 25 management objectives: details of continue to adopt the going concern April 2014. basis in preparing the Annual Report Post balance sheet events activities: and its exposures to credit and Accounts.
The UK Government has announced Share capital that UK corporation tax rates will fall over the period to 1 April 2014 from its long-term funding is detailed in together with details of the the current rate of 23% to 22%.
The the Strategic Report on page 19.
In movements in the Companys issued impact of the proposed rate change share capital during the year are is not material to the Group.
two new facilities in Germany shown in note 28.
The Company has to replace both the 226 million one class of ordinary shares which mature in February 2015 and the million facility due to expire in share carries the right to one vote at 140 million HBOS facility which was October 2014 and the 226 million general meetings of the Company.
The facility which was due to expire in two new facilities provide the Group February 2015.
Both have been with long-term funding in Germany on the size of a holding nor on the until 2019.
The current economic banks new to Hansteen.
conditions have created uncertainties governed by the general provisions facing the Group as noted in the Financial instruments and risk of the Articles of Association and Strategic Report on pages 6 to 25.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements The Board agrees and reviews between holders of the Companys and forecast covenant compliance for risk management.
Further shares that may result in restrictions taking into account: on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
is contained in note 34 to the covenants of further reductions Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 31.
Principal risks and decline in rental income and uncertainties No person has any special rights of increase in interest rates: and The principal risks and uncertainties control over the Companys share to which the Group is exposed are capital and all issued shares are fully current economic uncertainty detailed in the Strategic Report on paid.
over the Groups operating page 24.
Directors and their interests Going concern tenancy failures and increased The Directors who served throughout vacancies.
the year are detailed on pages 77-79. together with the factors likely These forecasts show that the The appointment and replacement of HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC
