Section 3 108 Corporate Governance acquisition and or divestment of corporate restructuring events a Group business which cause it extent to which performance and special dividends : to consider that the targets and measures have been met and measures are no longer appropriate the corresponding vesting or to achieve the original purpose of payment levels: weighting and targets for the annual bonus scheme and PSP: provided that the revised targets dealing with a change of control and performance measures are no less or restructuring of the Group: challenging bearing in mind the revised circumstances.
of leavers in accordance with the Any use of the above discretion relevant rules of each incentive or use of treasury shares or by would be explained in the Annual plan and the appropriate way of a cash payment.
Report on Remuneration for The Committee also retains the rating of awards: ability to adjust the targets and or consultation with the Companys for the annual bonus scheme and major shareholders.
PSP if events occur e. g. a material The following table summarises the key elements of the Groups remuneration policy for Directors.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FIXED PAY Element BASE SALARY Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity There is no maximum salary or maximum salary increase.
Salaries are determined with regard to competitive market practice and also to Group and individual performance and scope of responsibility.
Salary increases will typically be in line with increases for other Group employees but the Committee has discretion to increase above this level to take account of Performance measures Element PENSION Purpose and link to strategy experience.
Operation Contributions to pension funds.
Maximum opportunity Employer contribution of maximum of 16% of base salary.
HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 109 Element BENEFITS Purpose and link to strategy location of Executive Directors.
Executive Directors are also provided with the technology required to individuals particular circumstances and to align to market level.
considered appropriate and reasonable by the Committee.
Maximum Opportunity Full cost of provision.
VARIABLE PAY Element ANNUAL PERFORMANCE-RELATED BONUS SCHEME Purpose and link to strategy operational objectives linked to investor expectations at the beginning of the year.
Operation Measures and targets are reviewed and set annually by the Committee at the beginning of pensionable and are subject to a claw-back in relation to fraud or gross misrepresentation.
Maximum opportunity Up to 100% of base salary but limited to 75% of base salary for each of the Joint Chief Executives in view of their participation in the Founder Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Performance measures into account the Groups key strategic priorities and the budget for the year.
Measures and targets for 2014 are summarised in the Annual Report on Remuneration section of this report.
Element PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN Purpose and link to strategy To incentivise and reward outstanding performance and ensure alignment with shareholders interests.
Operation Awards of conditional shares granted on an annual basis.
Awards normally vest no earlier Maximum opportunity Annual awards subject to a maximum value at grant of 150% of base salary but limited to 75% of base salary for each of the Joint Chief Executives in view of their participation in the Founder Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Performance measures Targets are set by the Committee in accordance with the strategic objectives of the Group at the time the awards are granted and measured over a three year performance period.
2014 is set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration section of this report.
Measures for subsequent years will be summarised in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the relevant year.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 Section 3 110 Corporate Governance Element FOUNDER LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN FOUNDER LTIP Purpose and link to strategy Legacy arrangement forming part of the Founder Directors arrangements established at IPO November 2005 to incentivise the existing Joint Chief Executives and to recognise and reward the delivery of exceptional returns to shareholders.
This arrangement will not be Operation Contractual rights operating over three year performance periods to award shares where the NAV per share growth exceeds the Target NAV per share.
The current performance period is 2013- 2015.
Maximum opportunity share growth in excess of a Target NAV per share multiplied by the number of shares in issue at the end of the performance period.
Performance measures growth in excess of 10% per annum.
The NAV per share growth and the Target NAV are measured after including dividends and other returns to shareholders.
The performance measure was chosen to reward the Founder Directors if the Groups return to shareholders is Element SHAREHOLDING REQUIREMENT Purpose and link to strategy To demonstrate the commitment of the Executive Directors to the Company and to ensure alignment of their personal interests with those of the Company and the shareholders.
Operation The Executive Directors are required to build and then maintain a shareholding in the Company.
Maximum Opportunity maintain a shareholding in the Company equal to their pre-tax base salary.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Element FEES Purpose and link to strategy To attract and retain highcalibre individuals.
Operation Fees are reviewed periodically.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the annual Fees are paid in cash.
Maximum opportunity time commitment and responsibilities of the relevant role and by reference to surveys of fees paid to Non-Executive Directors of companies with comparable market capitalisation.
The Chairman is paid an all-inclusive fee for all Board responsibilities determined by the Board on the recommendation of the Committee.
Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee plus additional fees for chairing Board Committees or as Senior Independent Director.
These are determined by the Board on the recommendation of the Committee.
