107 This part of the Report of the Committee takes into account the Remuneration Committee sets out outside the remuneration policy as the remuneration policy for Directors described below where the terms when formulating and implementing of the Company and will be subject of payment were agreed before the the policy.
The Committee also to a binding vote by shareholders at considers shareholder feedback the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
received in relation to the Annual when the relevant individual was General Meeting each year.
Details not a Director of the Company.
Such immediately following shareholder of the votes cast for and against the approval.
resolution to approve last years payment was not in consideration for Remuneration Report are provided in Policy overview the individual becoming a Director the Annual Report on Remuneration In setting the Groups remuneration section of this report.
payments include the Committee Consideration of employment Remuneration Committee takes into satisfying awards of variable conditions elsewhere in the account the following: Group payment agreed at the time the Whilst it does not consult with motivate high calibre individuals: award was granted.
Details of any payments will be disclosed in the the Committee considers pay and of the Executive Directors and the Annual Report on Remuneration for employment conditions elsewhere Groups business objectives: that year.
in the Group when considering remuneration for the Executive Operation of the annual bonus Directors.
When considering base and the interests of the arrangements and share shareholders: schemes considers the general level of salary In operating and administering employment conditions within the annual bonus scheme and the salary increases for Executive the Group and the geographic Group share schemes in accordance Directors will be aligned with those regions in which the Group with their respective rules and in received elsewhere in the Group operates: and unless the Committee considers retains certain discretions which practices with regard to for any of the Executive Directors.
equivalent roles in groups of following: The remuneration arrangements for employees below the main Board geographic spread as well as their relative performance.
award and payments: Consideration of shareholder views The Committee is committed the limits of the contractual for Executives as set out in the Future to an ongoing dialogue with obligations if part of a legacy Policy Table below.
shareholders and seeks the views of Legacy arrangements The Committee reserves the right to major changes are being made to accordance with the Future Policy remuneration arrangements.
The make remuneration payments and Table as set out below: ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
