Section 2 36 Financial Statements 3. significant accounting policies Basis of accounting 82 and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted by the European Union and Certain comparative amounts have been adjusted where relevant to ensure comparability with the current years Basis of consolidation by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power equity.
Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the non-controlling interests share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Losses applicable to the non-controlling interest in excess of the non-controlling interest in the subsidiarys equity are allocated against the interest of the Group except to the extent that the non-controlling has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income with those used by the Group.
Business combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured equity instruments issued by the Group.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the income statement as If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and is subject to a maximum of one year.
HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 37 Non-controlling interests in the acquiree are measured at the non-controlling shareholders proportionate share of Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost.
If the Groups of associates.
there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Non-current assets held for sale through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed carried at fair value.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts related taxes.
Property management fees are recognised in the period to which they relate.
have been transferred to the buyer.
This generally coincides with the transfer of the legal title or the passing accounting period plus any additions in the period.
Leasing under a head lease it is initially recognised as an asset as the sum of the premium paid on acquisition and the present value of minimum ground rent payments.
The corresponding rent liability to the head leaseholder is Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 Section 2 38 Financial Statements buildings elements separately.
The Group does not classify those land elements that are held under operating leases as investment property.
Foreign currencies functional currency foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are Share-based payments The fair value of equity-settled share-based payments to employees is determined at the date of grant and is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Companys estimate of options that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a binomial model or the Companys share price less the and behavioural considerations.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current and deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 39 Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
movements relating to intercompany funding.
Property, plant and equipment depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
bases: Computer equipment three years Investment properties Acquisitions of investment properties including related transaction costs and subsequent additions of a capital nature are initially recognised in the accounts at cost.
At each reporting date the investment properties are revalued to their fair values based on a professional valuation at the balance sheet date.
Gains or losses arising arise.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provisions for impairment.
Investments in associates or joint control over those policies.
Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by postindividual investments.
Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups interest in that associate which includes only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 Section 2 40 Financial Statements and contingent liabilities of the associate recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that of the Groups interest in the relevant associate.
Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred in which case appropriate provision is made for impairment.
Trading properties Trading properties are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value and are treated as acquired when attributable to properties in the course of development.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Financial instruments party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the recognition.
Financial assets at FVTPL recognition if: otherwise arise: or HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 41 Loans and receivables assets are measured at fair value with fair value gains or losses recognised in other comprehensive income.
On right to receive payment is established.
Objective evidence of impairment could include: impairment is reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised.
a subsequent period the amount of impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid changes in value.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 Section 2 42 Financial Statements entity.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a borrowing for the proceeds received.
Financial liabilities and equity arrangements entered into.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all costs.
Financial guarantee contract liabilities Financial guarantee contract liabilities are measured initially at their fair values and are subsequently measured at the higher of: Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets: and the revenue recognition policies set out above.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at FVTPL recognition if: otherwise arise: or HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC
