Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 165 Other information Glossary ABC1 customers Interest cover Proportion of customers within UK social groups A, B and C1, defined as Underlying operating profit excluding trading property related members of households whose chief earners occupation is professional, items divided by the net finance cost plus interest on convertible higher or intermediate management, or supervisory.
bonds recognised in equity excluding the change in fair value of financial instruments, exceptional finance costs and amortisation of compound Annual property income financial instruments.
The Groups share of passing rent plus the external valuers estimate of annual excess turnover rent and sundry income such as that from car Interest rate swap parks and mall commercialisation.
A derivative financial instrument enabling parties to exchange interest rate obligations for a predetermined period.
These are used by the Group Debt to assets ratio to convert floating rate debt to fixed rates.
Net external debt divided by the market value of investment and development property.
IPD Investment Property Databank Ltd, producer of an independent Diluted figures benchmark of property returns.
Reported amounts adjusted to include the effects of dilutive potential shares issuable under convertible bonds and employee incentive Like-for-like property arrangements.
Investment property which has been owned throughout both periods without significant capital expenditure in either period, so that income Earnings per share can be compared on a like-for-like basis.
For the purposes of comparison Profit for the period attributable to owners of Intu divided by the of capital values, this will also include assets owned at the previous weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
reporting period end but not throughout the prior period.
EPRA Long-term lease European Public Real Estate Association, the publisher of Best Practice A lease with a term certain of at least five years.
Recommendations intended to make financial statements of public real estate companies in Europe clearer, more transparent and comparable.
LTV loan to value The ratio of attributable debt to the market value of an investment ERV estimated rental value property.
The external valuers estimate of the Groups share of the current annual market rent of all lettable space net of any non-recoverable charges, NAV per share diluted, adjusted before bad debt provision and adjustments required under IFRS NAV per share calculated on a diluted basis and adjusted to reflect regarding tenant lease incentives.
any unrecognised surplus on trading properties net of tax, to remove the fair value of derivatives net of tax, to remove goodwill resulting Exceptional items from the recognition of deferred tax liabilities, and to remove deferred Exceptional items are those items that in the Directors view are required tax on investment and development property and other investments.
to be separately disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence to enable a full understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Net asset value NAV per share Net assets attributable to owners of Intu Properties plc divided by the Headline rent ITZA number of ordinary shares in issue at the period end.
Annual contracted rent per square foot after expiry of concessionary periods in terms of zone A.
Net external debt Net debt after removing the Metrocentre compound financial instrument and, for 31 December 2013, short-term investments representing CMBS notes issued in respect of intu Metrocentre and received as cash in February 2014.
Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
co. uk 166 Other information Glossary continued Net initial yield EPRA Real Estate Investment Trust REIT Annualised net rent on investment property after deduction of revenue A tax regime which exempts from corporation tax the rental profits costs such as head rent, running void, service charge after shortfalls, and capital gains of the REITs qualifying investment property activities.
empty rates and merchant association contribution expressed as a In the UK, the regime must be elected into and the REIT must meet percentage of the gross market value before deduction of theoretical certain ongoing qualifications, including the requirement to distribute acquisition costs, consistent with EPRAs net initial yield, and as provided at least 90 per cent of qualifying rental profits to shareholders.
by the Groups independent external valuers.
The Group elected for REIT status with effect from 1 January 2007.
Net rental income Scrip Dividend Scheme The Groups share of net rents receivable as shown in the income The Group offers shareholders the opportunity to participate in the statement, having taken due account of non-recoverable costs, bad debt Scrip Dividend Scheme.
This enables participating shareholders provisions and adjustments to comply with IFRS including those to receive shares instead of cash when a Scrip Alternative is offered regarding tenant lease incentives.
NNNAV per share diluted, adjusted Short-term lease NAV per share diluted, adjusted adjusted to include the fair values of A lease with a term certain of less than five years.
derivatives, debt, and deferred taxes.
Tenant or lease incentives Nominal equivalent yield Any incentives offered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
Typically Effective annual yield to a purchaser from an asset at market value incentives are in the form of an initial rent free period and or a cash before taking account of notional acquisition costs assuming rent is contribution to fit-out the premises.
Under IFRS the value of incentives receivable annually in arrears, reflecting ERV but disregarding potential granted to tenants is amortised through the income statement on a changes in market rents, as determined by the Groups independent straight-line basis over the lease term.
Topped-up NIY EPRA Occupancy Net initial yield adjusted for the expiration of rent free periods and other The passing rent of let and under offer units expressed as a percentage unexpired lease incentives.
of the passing rent of let and under offer units plus ERV of un-let units, excluding development and recently completed properties.
Units let to Total financial return tenants in administration and still trading are treated as let and those no The change in NAV per share diluted, adjusted plus dividends per share longer trading are treated as un-let.
paid in the period expressed as a percentage of opening NAV per share diluted, adjusted.
Passing rent The Groups share of contracted annual rents receivable at the balance Trading property sheet date.
This takes no account of accounting adjustments made in Property held for trading purposes rather than to earn rentals or for respect of rent free periods or tenant incentives, the reclassification of capital appreciation and shown as a current asset in the balance sheet.
certain lease payments as finance charges or any irrecoverable costs and expenses, and does not include excess turnover rent, additional rent in Underlying earnings per share EPS respect of unsettled rent reviews or sundry income such as from car Earnings per share adjusted to exclude valuation movements, parks etc.
Contracted annual rents in respect of tenants in administration exceptional items and related tax.
Underlying figures PMA Amounts described as underlying exclude valuation movements, Property Market Analysis LLP, a producer of property market research exceptional items and related tax.
Vacancy rate EPRA Property Income Distribution PID The ERV of vacant space divided by total ERV.
A dividend, generally subject to UK withholding tax at the basic rate of income tax, that a UK REIT is required to pay to its shareholders Yield shift from its qualifying rental profits.
Certain classes of shareholder A movement usually expressed in basis points in the yield of a may qualify to receive a PID gross, shareholders should refer to property asset.
co. uk for further information.
The Group can also pay non-PID dividends which are not subject to UK withholding tax.
