Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 167 Other information Dividends The Directors of Intu Properties plc have proposed a final dividend per ordinary share ISIN GB0006834344 of 10 pence 2012 10 pence to bring the total dividend per ordinary share for the year to 15 pence 2012 15 pence.
A scrip dividend alternative will be offered.
The dividend may be partly paid as a Property Income Distribution PID and partly paid as a non-PID.
The PID element will be subject to deduction of a 20 per cent withholding tax unless exemptions apply please refer to the PID special note below.
Any non-PID element will be treated as an ordinary UK company dividend.
For South African shareholders, non-PID cash dividends may be subject to deduction of South African Dividends Tax at 15 per cent.
The precise timetable for the proposed dividend payment, and details of the apportionment between the PID and non-PID elements per share, will be confirmed in due course and made available on the Companys website.
PID SPECIAL NOTE: UK shareholders For those who are eligible for exemption from the 20 per cent withholding tax and have not previously registered for exemption, an HM Revenue & Customs HMRC Tax Exemption Declaration is available for download from the Investors section of the Intu Properties plc website intugroup.
co. uk, or on request to our UK registrars, Capita Asset Services.
Validly completed forms must be received by Capita Asset Services no later than the dividend Record Date, to be advised: otherwise the dividend will be paid after deduction of tax.
South African and other non-UK shareholders South African shareholders may apply to HMRC after payment of the dividend for a refund of the difference between the 20 per cent withholding tax and the UK South African double taxation treaty rate of 15 per cent.
Other non-UK shareholders may be able to make similar claims for a refund of UK withholding tax deducted.
Refund application forms for all non-UK shareholders are available for download from the Investors section of the Intu Properties plc website intugroup.
co. uk, or on request to our South African registrars, Computershare, or HMRC.
UK withholding tax refunds are not claimable from Intu Properties plc, the South African Revenue Service SARS or other national authorities, only from the UKs HMRC.
Additional information on PIDs can be found at intugroup.
The above does not constitute advice and shareholders should seek their own professional guidance.
Intu Properties plc does not accept liability for any loss suffered arising from reliance on the above.
Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
