Glossary Acronym Full name Description A350 Airbus A350 XWB aircraft A twin-engine wide-body jet aircraft for commercial use.
The aircraft is in development and had its first flight in 2013.
A400M Airbus A400M airlifter A versatile large military aircraft that performs three differing duties, within challenging operating conditions: short-medium range flights, long range flights and the ability to provide aerial refuelling capabilities.
AESA Active Electronically Scanned Array radar Used to detect, target, track and enable self-protection capabilities.
The radar is used for defence, surveillance and strike scenarios.
AMDR Air and Missile Defence Radar An advanced radar suite for US Navy destroyers.
It provides protection against advanced anti-ship and ballistic missile threats.
AMRAAM Advanced Medium-Range Air-to-Air Missile A new generation of air-to-air missile with an all-weather, beyond-visual-range capability.
B717 Boeing 717 aircraft The B717 is a narrow-body aircraft designed for short-haul, high frequency commercial use.
DAS Distributed Antenna Systems Fibre optic communication systems for infrastructure such as buildings, tunnels and metros.
Covering a wide range of frequencies, it encompasses both public safety and cellular bands, providing coverage for network operators, transportation and public safety authorities.
ERP Enterprise Resource Planning A software system which integrates all business processes, including manufacturing, finance and accounting, human resources, sales and marketing, purchasing and distribution, and inventory and warehouse into one central cohesive repository.
It allows businesses to run more efficiently, with real time access to data across many business functions.
Eurofighter Eurofighter Typhoon fighter aircraft A multi-role combat aircraft covering a full spectrum of air operations, from air policing, to peace support, through to high intensity conflict.
F-# USAF designated fighter aircraft Designation given by the US Air Force to aircraft designed for air-to-air combat or for multiple roles, including ground support missions.
FBH FB Heliservices The Groups combined interests in FB Heliservices Limited, FB Leasing Limited and FBS Limited.
FSTA Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft A UK Private Finance Initiative funded project to replace the UKs air-to-air refuelling fleets, and elements of the air transport work previously undertaken by the RAF VC10 and TriStar fleets.
Global Xpress Inmarsat Global Xpress A satellite service, with global coverage expected by the end of 2014, which will be the worlds first to offer global mobile broadband coverage.
Global Xpress will provide increased data speeds and bandwidth to customers in the government, maritime and aeronautical sectors.
Gripen Saab Gripen fighter aircraft A multi-role fighter aircraft capable of air-to-air combat, air-to-surface combat and reconnaissance roles.
IED Improvised Explosive Device Homemade bombs thought to be the weapon of choice for terrorists due to their availability and destructiveness.
KC-390 Embraer KC-390 Aerial Refuelling Tanker A medium-lift military transport and aerial refuelling tanker aircraft currently being developed by Embraer.
Production is scheduled to commence in 2015.
138 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Glossary continued Other Information Acronym Full name Description KC-46 Boeing KC-46 Aerial Refuelling Tanker An aerial refuelling tanker, currently being developed for the US Air Force to replace its ageing fleet of KC-135 Stratotankers.
The KC-46, with initial flights scheduled for 2014, offers improved cargo and passenger capability.
Mi-17 Mi-17-1V multi-purpose medium helicopter A multi-purpose helicopter with the ability to carry passengers, stretchers or cargo.
Minehound A hand-held device to detect metallic, minimum-metal and non-metallic threats underground.
Used in the detection of improvised explosive devices and mines.
NH-90 NHIndustries NH-90 military helicopter A medium lift, multi-role military helicopter developed from NATO requirements.
Used for troop and cargo transport, casualty evacuation, search and rescue and anti-submarine hunting.
SATCOM Satellite Communication Enables voice and data communications such as telephone calls, TV pictures or internet connections, using an orbiting satellite to transfer data around the earth.
SIGINT Signals Intelligence Intelligence gathering using electronic signals and systems such as radars, communications and weapons systems.
Super Puma Airbus Super Puma Helicopter Designed to operate in extreme environments, a medium-large helicopter capable of carrying heavy objects and passengers.
UAV Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Unmanned aircraft that generally carry cameras, sensors, communications equipment or other payloads.
They are used in reconnaissance and intelligence gathering roles with more challenging roles envisioned, including combat missions.
WGS Wideband Global Satellite Programme The US Department of Defenses highestcapacity satellite communications system.
It supports requirements such as tactical command and control, battle management, reconnaissance, intelligence, surveillance and combat support.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 139
