Designed and produced by: Find More Online Addison Group www.
net Cobham protects lives and livelihoods with its Printed by: differentiated technology and know-how, operating Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
with a deep insight to customer needs and agility.
The Group offers an innovative range of technologies Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management and services to solve challenging problems across System is certified to ISO 14001. commercial, defence and security markets, from 100% of the inks used are vegetable deep space to the depths of the ocean.
oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average, 99% of any waste associated It has market leading positions in air-to-air refuelling: with thisproduction will be recycled.
aviation services: audio, video and data communications, www.
com This document is printed on Our website provides further information including shareholder including satellite communications: defence electronics: Amadeus coated 50 silk, a paper services and governance, details of our products and services, life support: and mission equipment.
containing 50% recycled fibre corporate responsibility and sustainability and more.
25% post consumer and 25% pre consumer and 50% virgin The most important thing Cobham builds is trust.
fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC certified forests.
The pulp used in this product is Investor information and share price performance bleached using an elemental chlorine free ECF process.
com When you have finished with this report, please pass it on to other interestedparties or Products and service offerings remove the cover and dispose of it in your recycled paperwaste.
com  Corporate responsibility and sustainability www.
com Front cover image Cobhams Distributed Antenna Systems DAS technology and wireless solutions for the public safety and cellular markets ensure that buildings and critical infrastructure have a fail-safe public safety communications system of the highest standard.
The Burj Khalifa, Dubai, is one of the many pieces of infrastructure globally that benefit from Cobhams DAS technology.
Inside front cover image Cobham provides governments globally with fixed and rotary wing services, including helicopter training, search and rescue, logistics and emergency medical services.
Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The most important thing we build is trust The most important thing we build is trust Cobham plc Brook Road, Wimborne, Dorset, BH21 2BJ, England www.
com T: 44 0 1202 882020 F: 44 0 1202 840523 Designed and produced by: Find More Online Addison Group www.
