Independent Auditors Report to the Parent Company Financial Statements Members of Cobham plc Report on the Parent Company Financial Statements In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in Our opinion the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies In our opinion the Parent Company Financial Statements, with the audited Parent Company Financial Statements and to identify defined below: any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Companys materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the affairs as at 31 December 2013: course of performing the audit.
have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the In our opinion: remainder of this report.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Parent Company What we have audited Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent The Parent Company Financial Statements, which are prepared Company Financial Statements.
by Cobham plc, comprise: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited the Parent Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2013: has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies the Parent Company Reconciliation of Movements in Act 2006.
Shareholders Funds for the year then ended: and the Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements, which Other matters on which we are required to report include a summary of significant accounting policies and other by exception explanatory information.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, preparation comprises applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting in our opinion: Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or In applying the financial reporting framework, the Directors have adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been of significant accounting estimates.
In making such estimates, they received from branches not visited by us: or have made assumptions and considered future events.
the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework agreement with the accounting records and returns.
have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, What an audit of financial statements involves in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards specified by law have not been made.
on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused Other information in the Annual Report and Accounts by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent in our opinion, information in the Annual Report and Accounts is: Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Parent and adequately disclosed: Company Financial Statements: or the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially by the Directors: and inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Parent Company the overall presentation of the financial statements.
acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 125 Independent Auditors Report continued Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 67, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements of Cobham plc for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Stuart Watson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 5 March 2014 126 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
