Definitions KPI definitions Further financial definitions The following notes apply throughout the Annual Report and Accounts: Group organic revenue growth Revenue growth stated at constant translation exchange rates, To assist with the understanding of earnings trends, the Group has excluding the incremental effect of acquisitions and disposals.
included within its published financial statements trading profit and underlying earnings results.
Trading profit has been defined as Underlying EPS growth at constant translation exchange rates operating profit from continuing operations excluding the impacts The year on year increase of the underlying profit after taxation, of certain M&A related costs and business restructuring costs as stated at constant translation exchange rates, divided by the detailed below.
Also excluded are changes in the marking to market weighted average number of Ordinary Shares.
of non-hedge accounted derivative financial instruments, impairments of intangible assets, and items deemed by the Directors to be of an Operating cash conversion exceptional nature.
Operating cash flow as a percentage of trading profit, excluding profit from joint ventures.
M&A related costs excluded from trading profit and underlying earnings include the amortisation of intangible assets recognised on Return on invested capital acquisition and the writing off of the pre-acquisition profit element Trading profit as a percentage of the average invested capital of inventory written up on acquisition.
M&A related costs also include during the year.
other direct costs associated with business combinations, adjustments to contingent consideration related to previously acquired businesses Invested capital comprises net assets adjusted to exclude net debt, and direct costs from terminated divestments.
retirement benefit obligations, derivative financial instruments, current and deferred tax, provisions and other financial assets.
Intangible assets Business restructuring costs or gains associated with the recognised on business combinations are grossed up to their original restructuring of the Groups portfolio which are incremental cost before amortisation and an adjustment is also made to reinstate to normal operations.
the historic goodwill previously written off directly to reserves.
Underlying earnings are defined as trading profit less net underlying PV investment finance costs, which excludes the unwinding of acquisition related PV Private Venture or company funded R&D Research and discounting, and after deducting associated taxation and nonDevelopment measures exclude Aviation Services, where there controlling interests.
A reconciliation of operating profit and profit before taxation Staff safety major accident incident rate to the respective underlying numbers is shown on page 24.
The number of accidents resulting in more than three days absence per 100,000 employees.
Operating cash flow is defined as net cash from operating activities before payment of tax, interest, restructuring costs and M&A related Voluntary staff turnover costs but after cash flows from the purchase or disposal of property, The number of voluntary leavers divided by the average number plant, equipment and intangible assets.
of employees over the period, excluding employees who became redundant, were dismissed or retired.
Free cash flow is defined as net cash from operating activities plus dividends received from joint ventures, less cash flows related to the purchase or disposal of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets but excluding payments relating to M&A related activities.
Net debt is defined as the net of borrowings less cash and cash equivalents at the balance sheet date.
When providing divisional analysis by geography, US revenue includes revenue to US based customers on programmes that could be designated as export and is therefore non-US defence security from a market analysis perspective.
140 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
