Notes to the Group Financial Statements 1.
Accounting Policies Management judgement and estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS General information requires the use of estimates and judgements that affect the These financial statements are the consolidated financial statements application of accounting policies and reported amounts of assets, of Cobham plc the Company, a public company limited by shares, liabilities, revenue and expenses.
registered and domiciled in the United Kingdom and its subsidiaries the Group.
These estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including Basis of preparation expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in under the circumstances.
The current economic conditions have accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS been considered when evaluating accounting estimates and as adopted by the EU, International Financial Reporting Interpretation judgements, including the application of the going concern basis Council IFRIC interpretations and those parts of the Companies of preparation.
Although estimates are based on managements best Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, as modified by the The Board considers that the key assumptions concerning the future, revaluation of derivative financial instruments and assets held and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet for sale which are held at fair value.
date, which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the next financial Principal accounting policies year, are as follows: The principal accounting policies, which have been consistently applied unless otherwise stated, are as set out below.
Intangible assets recognised on acquisition On completion of a business combination, the cost is allocated Accounting developments by recognising the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent New standards and amendments to standards which have been liabilities acquired at fair value.
Intangible assets are recognised adopted with effect from 1 January 2013 and which impact these where they are separable or arise from contractual or legal rights, financial statements are as follows: and have a fair value that can be measured reliably.
For the Group, these intangible assets usually comprise contractual arrangements, The implementation of IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement has customer relationships and technology based assets, but can also required some amendments to disclosures on financial instruments include acquired patents, software rights and licences and but has not affected the fair value measurements used.
The amendment to IAS 19, Employee Benefits has been applied retrospectively.
This resulted in a reduction in the prior year In establishing the fair value for intangible assets recognised on reported profit after tax of 1.6m: further details are provided acquisition and their estimated useful lives, the Group takes account in note 2. of the individual circumstances of the entity acquired.
Factors The amendment to IAS 1, Financial Statement Presentation has considered include trading data, the value and duration of contracts impacted the presentation of items within Other Comprehensive acquired and the strength, duration and degree of exclusivity of Income OCI, grouping items on the basis of whether they can, relationships with customers.
Valuation estimates are also used, or cannot, be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss.
including the estimation of likely external royalty rates that could be associated with technology and branding assets and attributable In addition, the following standards, amendments to standards and future cash flows.
interpretations have been adopted with effect from 1 January 2013.
However no changes to previously published accounting policies Impairment of goodwill or other adjustments were required on their adoption.
A review of the carrying value of goodwill is completed at least once a year to ensure that it is not impaired.
This requires estimation of the Amendment to IAS 12, Deferred tax: Recovery value in use of the cash generating units CGUs to which the goodwill of Underlying Assets is allocated.
Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an Amendment to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures estimate of the expected future cash flows from the CGUs and also to offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value Amendments to IFRS 1, First time adoption Government of those cash flows.
Further details are given in note 11.
Grants and Hyperinflation Annual Improvements 2011 IFRIC 20, Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine 80 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements Taxation Business restructuring costs relate to the restructuring of the Groups The Group is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant portfolio which are incremental to normal operations.
These relate judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for tax.
exclusively to the ongoing design and implementation of Standard There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax Operating Frameworks within the principal locations, initial determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The development costs of a new ERP computer system, together with Group recognises liabilities based on estimates of whether additional site consolidation, consequential asset write downs and workforce taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is reduction costs arising from additional streamlining under the different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences two year extension of the EiD programme to the end of 2015. will impact the current and deferred tax provisions and the income statement in the period in which such determination is made.
Underlying earnings Underlying earnings are defined as trading profit less net underlying Retirement benefits finance costs, which excludes the unwinding of acquisition related The Group Financial Statements include costs and liabilities in relation discounting, and after deducting associated taxation and nonto retirement benefit obligations.
A number of assumptions are made controlling interests.
in assessing the costs and present value of the pension assets and liabilities, which include the long term rate of increase of salary costs, Net debt discount rate, inflation, and mortality rates.
The Group uses published Net debt is defined as the net of borrowings less cash and cash indices and independent actuarial advice to select the values of equivalents at the balance sheet date.
critical assumptions, which are disclosed in note 24.
Free cash flow Provisions Free cash flow is defined as net cash from operating activities plus Where appropriate, the consolidated financial statements include dividends received from joint ventures, less cash flows related to the provisions for the estimated outcome of commercial disputes and purchase or disposal of property, plant, equipment and intangible other claims, including those with long term contract partners.
The assets but excluding payments relating to M&A related activities.
Directors take account of the advice of experts in quantifying the expected costs of future adverse outcomes.
Due to the inherent Operating segments uncertainty associated with such disputes and any related legal The chief operating decision making body for the Group has been proceedings, the timing and determination of the amount of any identified as the Board.
It reviews the Groups internal reporting in order payments under such claims could differ from the amounts provided.
to assess performance and allocate resources.
Details of the composition and purpose of the Board can be found on pages 38 and 39.
Definitions Underlying measures The Group reports four operating segments whose revenue and results To assist with the understanding of earnings trends, the Group are reported to the Board.
These are Aerospace and Security, Defence has included within its published financial statements non-GAAP Systems, Mission Systems and Aviation Services.
All operating measures including trading profit and underlying earnings results.
segments meet the definition of reportable segments as defined These are considered by the Board to be the most meaningful in IFRS 8.
The principal activities of these segments are described measures under which to assess the true operating performance on pages 14 to 21. of the Group.
The Board assesses the trading performance of operating segments All underlying measures include the operational results of all based on revenue and trading profit as defined above.
Finance income, operations including those available for sale until the point of sale.
finance costs and taxation are not segmented and are reviewed by the Board on a Group basis.
Segment net assets are disclosed voluntarily Trading profit in note 4 and include intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, This has been defined as operating profit from continuing operations investment properties, inventory, trade and other receivables, trade excluding the impacts of business acquisition and divestment related and other payables and provisions.
They do not include tax, net debt, activity and business restructuring costs as detailed below.
Also excluded derivative financial instruments, contingent consideration payable are changes in the marking to market of non-hedge accounted derivative or retirement benefit obligations.
financial instruments, impairments of intangible assets, and items deemed by the Directors to be of an exceptional nature.
Basis of consolidation The Group Financial Statements include the financial statements Business acquisition and divestment related items excluded from of the parent company, Cobham plc, and of all its subsidiaries made trading profit and underlying earnings include the amortisation up to the end of the financial period.
of intangible assets recognised on acquisition, the revaluation gain arising on the original equity interests in FBH, adjustments to Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Company has control, businesses held for sale, the writing off of the pre-acquisition profit which is defined as the power to govern the financial and operating element of inventory written up on acquisition, other direct costs policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
associated with business combinations and terminated divestments, Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is and adjustments to contingent consideration related to previously transferred to the Company until the date that control ceases.
derecognition, any amounts previously recognised in OCI in respect www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 81 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed Revenue recognition of the related assets or liabilities.
This may mean that amounts Revenue is measured at the fair value of the right to consideration, previously recognised in OCI are reclassified to profit or loss.
net of returns, rebates and other similar allowances.
Joint ventures are entities where control is shared with one or more Revenue from the sale of goods not under a long term contract is third parties.
Associates are entities where the Group has significant recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership and influence but do not meet the definition of a subsidiary or joint effective control of the goods have been passed to the customer, venture.
Joint ventures and associates are not consolidated but recovery of the consideration is probable, and the amount of are accounted for using the equity method.
The Group Financial revenue and costs can be measured reliably.
In the case of contracts Statements include the Groups share of the post-acquisition change with a long duration, including contracts with a funded development in net assets and the post-tax profit or loss of jointly controlled phase, revenue is recognised based upon the fair value of work entities and associates from the date that joint control or significant performed to date assessed with reference to completed contract influence commences until the date this ceases.
milestones which have been accepted by the customer.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are Long term contract accounting as described in IAS 11, Construction eliminated on consolidation.
Contracts is not generally applicable to the longer term contracts for sales of goods entered into by Group companies.
Where long term Foreign currencies contract accounting is applicable, revenue is recognised on a percentage The presentation currency of the Group is sterling.
Most Group of completion basis whereby a portion of the contract revenue is companies, including the parent company, use their local currency recognised based on contract costs incurred to date compared with as their functional currency.
Transactions in currencies other than total estimated costs at completion.
the functional currency are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities Revenue for services is recognised as the services are rendered with denominated in non-functional currencies are retranslated at the reference to the proportion of the service delivered to date.
For exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date and any exchange cost-plus contracts typically with government departments and differences arising are taken to the Consolidated Income Statement.
agencies, revenue is recognised to the extent of reimbursable costs incurred, plus a proportionate amount of the estimated fee earned.
For consolidation purposes, the assets and liabilities of foreign For contracts where revenue is determined on a unit activity basis, operations are translated at the closing exchange rates.
Income revenue is recognised on the basis of activity undertaken in the period.
statements of such undertakings are consolidated at the average rates of exchange as an approximation for actual rates during the Revenue excludes intercompany sales, value added tax and other year.
Exchange differences arising on these translations are sales taxes.
accounted for in OCI and the translation reserve.
Taxation including deferred taxation Business combinations The tax expense is the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Businesses acquired are accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting with effect from the date control passes.
The cost Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year, which differs from of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the consideration profit before taxation as reported in the income statement.
This is the fair value of the assets transferred typically profit excludes items of income and expense that are taxable or cash, the liabilities assumed and any equity interests issued by the deductible in other years and also excludes items that are never Group, including contingent or deferred amounts.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the Where a business combination is completed in stages, any previously balance sheet date.
held interests are remeasured to fair value at the date at which control is achieved.
Any resulting gain or loss is recognised in the Consolidated Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method Income Statement.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
in respect of temporary differences arising between the tax bases Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities of assets and liabilities and their carrying values in the consolidated assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their financial statements.
fair values at the acquisition date.
The excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates and laws that have been net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability Contingent consideration includes amounts which may become is settled.
Tax is charged or credited to the income statement except payable in connection with completed acquisitions, based upon when it relates to items recognised in OCI or directly in equity, in which future operating results of the businesses acquired.
It is accounted case the deferred tax is also dealt with in OCI or in equity respectively.
for as a financial liability measured at fair value on a recurring basis and changes in the fair value are accounted for as gains or losses recognised through profit or loss and excluded from trading profit and underlying earnings.
82 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that All other intangible assets are amortised over the assets estimated taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary useful life on a straight-line basis as follows: differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that Customer relationships 5 to 15 years it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available Technology based assets 5 to 15 years to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered.
Development costs 2 to 10 years Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments Other intangible assets 6 months to 10 years in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Useful lives are assessed for each asset on an individual basis, taking into account the specific characteristics of the asset.
Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and Research and development when the deferred taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
Development costs are capitalised when it can be demonstrated that the conditions for capitalisation as described in IAS 38, Dividends Intangible Assets are met, paying particular attention to the Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are requirements for the product to be technically feasible and capable fully authorised.
At that point, further costs are capitalised as an intangible asset until the intangible asset is readily Intangible assets available for use and is then amortised as described above.
All Goodwill development costs not capitalised are written off as incurred Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over together with all research costs.
the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a business at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill acquired Property, plant and equipment is allocated at acquisition to the CGUs that are expected to benefit Freehold and leasehold land and buildings, plant and machinery, from that business combination.
CGUs represent the lowest level and fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment are held at historic cost within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment management purposes.
Cost comprises the purchase price and any costs directly attributable to the asset.
Goodwill arising on business combinations is capitalised and reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is All property, plant and equipment other than land and assets under recognised immediately in the income statement and cannot construction is depreciated on a straight-line basis to the estimated be subsequently reversed.
residual values over the estimated useful lives.
These lives are as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years On divestment of a business the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on divestment.
Leasehold properties Period to next break clause This includes any exchange differences reclassified to the income Plant and machinery 3 to 15 years statement from the translation reserve.
Fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment 3 to 15 years Other intangible assets Intangible assets other than goodwill which are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment Estimated residual values and the estimated useful lives are reviewed losses.
These include customer relationships, technology and annually and adjusted where necessary.
Freehold land is not software, trademarks, licences and patents.
The only internally depreciated, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
generated intangible assets are development costs which are capitalised as described below and internally developed software Assets under construction are held at cost and transferred where asset recognition criteria are met.
Internally developed to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment software is included within other intangible assets.
once construction is complete and they enter into service.
They are depreciated from this point in accordance with the policies described above.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 83 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Aircraft overhaul expenditure Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income Major overhaul expenditure on owned aircraft is capitalised statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
whenincurred and the resultant property, plant and equipment is Benefits receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease depreciated over its useful economic life.
Major overhaul costs that are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
are contractually required on aircraft held under operating leases are provided for over the period between the scheduled Inventories maintenanceevents.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour Investment properties costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the Investment properties, which are properties held to earn rentals inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is calculated or for capital appreciation, are stated at cost in the balance sheet.
using the first-in, first-out method.
Net realisable value represents the They are depreciated on a straight-line basis to their estimated estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and residual value over their estimated useful lives of up to 50 years.
costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Provision is made where necessary for obsolete, slow moving and defective items.
Rental income is recognised as revenue on a straight-line basis.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale Impairment losses Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale The carrying amounts of the Groups non-financial assets are are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs reviewed at least annually to determine whether there is any to sell.
No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current assets indication of impairment.
In addition, intangible assets with an classified as held for sale.
indefinite useful life, such as goodwill, are tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale be impaired.
if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met Where there is an indication of impairment, the assets recoverable only when the sale is highly probable and expected to be completed amount is estimated.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair within a year of the balance sheet date.
The asset or disposal group value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the should be available for immediate sale in its present condition and estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value actively marketed at a price that is reasonable in relation to its using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments current fair value.
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
Fair values The fair value of an asset or liability is the price that would be An impairment loss is recognised where the recoverable amount received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly of an asset is lower than its carrying amount.
All impairment losses transaction between market participants at the balance sheet date.
are recognised in the income statement.
Fair value measurements are used on a recurring basis except where used in the measurement of net assets classified as held for sale, An impairment loss other than arising on goodwill is reversed only where accounting standards require the use of fair values only after a change in the estimates used to assess recoverable amount in certain circumstances.
Non-recurring fair values are also used is identified and only to the extent that the assets carrying amount in the valuation of assets and liabilities in a business combination.
does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been The fair values of derivative financial instruments have been recognised.
Any reversal is recognised in the income statement.
determined by the use of valuation techniques, primarily discounted cash flows, based on assumptions that are supported by observable Leasing market prices or rates.
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership The fair value of contingent consideration is determined based on to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
the estimated payment, discounted to present value and using the entitys own data and unobservable inputs such as the anticipated Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the rate of annual revenue growth, profit margins and discount rates.
Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the The estimated payment is calculated using the income approach, minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of considering different scenarios of the relevant profit measure the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in commonly EBITDA.
the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the For financial assets and liabilities which are not held at fair value in lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the balance sheet, the carrying values of these items are assumed the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged to approximate to fair value due to their short term nature.
directly to the income statement.
84 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements Non-financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value include net Derivative financial instruments are categorised as held for trading assets classified as held for sale and fair values are also used in unless they are designated as hedges.
assessing the assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination.
These fair value measurements are based on observable market The fair value of financial liabilities held at cost not at fair value prices or rates.
For non-financial assets, the fair value takes into through profit or loss is adjusted for transaction costs that are account the highest and best use of the asset.
directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the liability.
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried There have been no changes to the valuation techniques used during at fair value.
Financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss the period.
The Groups policy is to recognise transfers in and transfers are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
out of fair value hierarchy levels as at the date of the event or change in circumstances that caused the transfer, although there have been Trade and other receivables no such transfers during the current or comparative periods.
Trade and other receivables are stated at their amortised cost, reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups Allowances for irrecoverable amounts are made when there is balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual evidence that the Group may not be able to collect the amount due.
Financial assets and liabilities are All trade receivables which are more than six months overdue are initially recognised at fair value at trade date.
provided for based on estimated irrecoverable amounts determined by reference to past default experience.
Amounts which are less than Financial assets six months overdue are provided where recovery of the balance due The classification of financial assets depends on the purpose is considered to be doubtful.
for which the assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of an asset at initial recognition and re-evaluates The impairment recorded is the difference between the carrying value the designation at each reporting date.
of the receivables and the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
Any impairment required is recorded in the income statement Assets held at fair value through profit or loss are those categorised in administrative expenses.
The balance may be written off in full as held for trading under IAS 39 and are classified as current assets generally where receivables are in excess of 12 months old.
At that or non-current assets dependent upon maturity.
Such financial assets time, any amounts previously provided for impairment are released.
are subsequently carried at fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and bank deposits or determinable payments which are not quoted in an active market.
with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that These are classified as current or non-current assets dependent upon are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups maturity and included within trade and other receivables.
Loans and cash management are included as a component of cash and cash receivables also includes cash and cash equivalents.
The fair value of equivalents for the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
these financial assets is adjusted for transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the asset.
Subsequent to Bank borrowings initial recognition, loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the using the effective interest method.
amount of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Borrowing costs, net of amounts capitalised, including premiums payable on Available for sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are charged to the assets either designated by management as available for sale or not income statement and are added to the carrying amount of the falling into any other category.
Financial assets so categorised include instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in equity instruments which do not have a quoted price in an active which they arise.
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to market and hence are measured at cost.
relevant property, plant and equipment are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
None of the Groups material financial assets fall into the held to maturity category, which is defined as non-derivative financial assets Trade payables with fixed maturity dates that the Group intends to hold to maturity.
Trade payables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are categorised on initial recognition as held for Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting trading under IAS 39 and are held at fair value through profit or loss, As explained in note 25, the Groups activities expose it to the or other liabilities, which are held at amortised cost.
All financial financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and liabilities are classified as current or non-current liabilities dependent interest rates.
The Group uses foreign exchange contracts and upon the maturity date of the instruments.
interest rate swap contracts to reduce these exposures and does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Other derivative financial instruments may be used from time to time to hedge other exposures such as inflation risks.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 85 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued The Group has documented its risk management objectives and Where net investment hedging applies, the exchange differences strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions, and utilises arising on the borrowings designated as fair value hedges are hedge accounting principles in relation to interest rate swaps.
recognised in OCI and through profit and loss on disposal of the These are designated as cash flow hedges which mitigate the Groups foreign operation.
exposure to changes in interest rates arising on floating rate debt.
From time to time, the Group may also use interest rate swaps The fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a current asset to manage its exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed rate or liability except when the remaining maturity of the hedged item borrowings: however there are no such contracts outstanding is more than 12 months.
Where hedge accounting is not applied, the movements in fair value Foreign exchange contracts entered into to mitigate foreign exchange of the derivative instruments are included in the income statement as impacts of trading in non-functional currencies, and inflation swaps part of operating profit.
The fair value of such derivatives is classified entered into to mitigate inflation risks, are not accounted for using as a current or non-current asset or liability dependent upon the hedge accounting.
Foreign currency borrowings are used to hedge expected realisation of the assets or settlement of the liabilities.
the effects of changes in the Groups net investment in foreign operations.
These borrowings either provide a natural economic Provisions hedge through the use of intercompany debt or are designated as fair A provision is required when the Group has a present legal or value hedges of the foreign currency risk attributable to the foreign constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable equity investment and are treated as net investment hedges.
that settlement will be required and where the amount can be reliably measured.
No provision is recognised where the existence Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value of an obligation is possible but will only be confirmed by uncertain on the date the contract is entered into and are subsequently future events.
remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is Provisions for warranty costs are recognised at the date of sale designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the of the relevant products, at managements best estimates of the item being hedged.
expenditure required to settle the Groups liabilities, based on past experience and industry averages for defective products.
Where hedge accounting is applied, the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items is documented at the Contract loss provisions are recognised for onerous contracts when inception of the transaction.
The Group also documents its the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under of whether the derivatives used in hedging transactions are highly the contract.
effective in offsetting changes in cash flows or fair values if appropriate of hedged items.
Aircraft maintenance provisions are established in respect of significant periodic maintenance costs, where maintenance activity is required Where interest rate swaps are designated and qualify as cash flow on leased operational aircraft or engines on a cycle greater than hedges, the effective portion of changes in fair value is recognised 12 months.
Costs are charged to the income statement on the basis of in OCI through the hedge reserve.
The gain or loss relating to utilisation of the aircraft and are credited to the provision.
The provision the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income is then utilised by absorbing the actual costs incurred in carrying out the statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to finance maintenance activity.
Maintenance carried out on a cycle of 12 months income or finance costs in the income statement in the periods or less is charged to the income statement as incurred.
when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Provisions also arise in connection with leased aircraft, where contracts When a cash flow hedging derivative expires or is sold, or when contain specific conditions regarding the configuration of the aircraft a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any on its return to the lessor at the end of the lease.
The estimated cost cumulative gain or loss existing in the hedge reserve in equity associated with fulfilling these requirements is charged to the income at that time remains in equity and is recognised in the income statement on an aircraft utilisation basis.
The provision is utilised on statement when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in actual return of the aircraft or on incurring the expenditure required the income statement.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to return the aircraft to the state of maintenance required by the lease to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in the hedge before return of the aircraft to the lessor.
reserve in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement in that period.
Provisions for claims made against the Group and commitments made under performance guarantees are recognised at managements best estimates of the expenditure required to settle the Groups liabilities.
Provisions are discounted at an appropriate risk-free rate when the impact is material.
86 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements Pensions Share based payments The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined For grants made under the Groups equity settled share based contribution schemes.
payment schemes, amounts which reflect the fair value of options awarded as at the time of grant are charged to the income statement For defined benefit schemes, current service costs and costs related over the relevant vesting periods, taking into account the Directors to the administration of the schemes are charged to operating profit.
best estimate of the number of awards expected to vest.
The Group Gains and losses on settlements and curtailments arising on a business reviews and updates the vesting estimate, which includes progress divestment are included in profit on divestment.
Past service costs are against non-market related performance conditions, at each balance recognised immediately in the income statement.
The interest on net sheet date.
assets or liabilities is shown within finance income and costs.
Actuarial remeasurements are recognised immediately in OCI.
The valuation methodology for all schemes is based on the Black-Scholes model, modified where required to allow for the Defined benefit schemes are funded, with the assets of the scheme impact of market related performance criteria and taking into held separately from those of the Group, in separate trustee account all non-vesting conditions.
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected Future accounting developments unit method and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate A number of new standards, amendments to existing standards and of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency interpretations have been published that are mandatory for future and term to the scheme liabilities.
The actuarial valuations are accounting periods.
Those endorsed by the EU for use from obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet 1 January 2014 are as follows: date.
The resulting net defined benefit asset or liability is presented separately on the face of the balance sheet.
IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements For defined contribution schemes, the amounts charged to the income IFRS 12, Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities statement in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement IAS 27 revised 2011, Separate Financial Statements benefits are the contributions payable in the year.
Differences between IAS 28 revised 2011, Associates and Joint Ventures contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12: Transitional recorded as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Guidance Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27: Investment Entities Share capital Amendment to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation Ordinary share capital is classified as equity.
Financial liabilities and on Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the Amendments to IAS 36, Recoverable Amount Disclosures contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any for Non-financial Assets contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group Amendments to IAS 39, Novation of Derivatives and after deducting all of its liabilities.
continuation of Hedge Accounting IFRIC 21, Levies not endorsed at 31 December 2013 Preference share capital is classified as a liability if it is redeemable on a specific date or at the option of the preference shareholders or if None of these have been adopted early by the Group and none dividend payments are not discretionary.
Dividends on preference are expected to have an impact on the Groups financial reporting.
share capital classified as liabilities are recognised in the income statement as finance costs.
There are also a number of new standards and amendments to existing standards including Annual Improvements which, once Treasury shares endorsed by the EU, will be effective from 1 January 2015.
IFRS 9, When ordinary share capital recognised as equity is acquired by the Financial Instruments will be adopted once endorsed for use by the Company, the shares are held as treasury shares.
Management will assess the impact of these changes on the paid, including commissions and taxes, is deducted from retained future reporting of the Groups operations at the appropriate time.
The proceeds of any treasury shares subsequently sold or re-issued, net of commission and taxes, are recognised as an increase in retained earnings and total equity.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 87 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 2.
Prior year restatement In addition, administrative costs incurred by the Groups pension Changes to IAS 19, Employee Benefits have resulted in some schemes, which amounted to 1.1m in 2012, are now charged to changes to the accounting for pension schemes.
The implications administrative expenses within the Consolidated Income Statement.
of these changes are explained in this note.
These were previously dealt with as part of the finance cost related to pension schemes.
The amendment to IAS 19 replaced an interest charge on pension liabilities and a credit for the expected return on investments held These changes do not impact the valuation of the assets or liabilities during the year with a single interest charge on net liabilities.
Actuarial losses, accounted for within OCI, are amendment was required to be applied retrospectively, which means restated to maintain the net liabilities as previously reported.
that the numbers reported in 2012 have been updated in these financial statements as if these new rules were in place last year.
These adjustments are tax effected and the change in profit after As investments are generally expected to provide returns that taxation impacts on Earnings per Share and underlying measures.
are greater than a typical interest rate this change had the effect The Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated of increasing the net interest cost for 2012 by 0.9m.
Cash Flow Statement and various notes to the financial statements are also affected.
The impacts on the 2012 financial statements can be summarised as follows: m As reported Adjustment As restated Consolidated Income Statement Administrative expenses see note below 263.8 1.1 264.9 Operating profit see note below 238.6 1.1 237.5 Finance income adjustment for expected return on pension scheme assets 33.4 26.6 6.8 Finance costs adjustment for interest on pension scheme liabilities 66.0 25.7 40.3 Profit before taxation 206.0 2.0 204.0 Taxation 32.6 0.4 32.2 Profit after taxation 173.4 1.6 171.8 Profit attributable to owners of the parent 173.3 1.6 171.7 Earnings per Ordinary Share Basic 16.13p 0.15p 15.98p Diluted 16.08p 0.15p 15.93p Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Profit after taxation 173.4 1.6 171.8 Remeasurements of defined benefit retirement benefit obligations 15.7 2.0 13.7 Tax effects 0.8 0.4 1.2 Total comprehensive income 136.5 136.5 Underlying measures Trading profit adjustment allocated to Head Office in segment information 333.1 1.1 332.0 Net underlying finance costs 30.9 0.9 31.8 Underlying profit before taxation 302.2 2.0 300.2 Taxation charge on underlying profit 58.9 0.4 58.5 Underlying profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent 243.2 1.6 241.6 Underlying EPS 22.63p 0.15p 22.48p Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Operating profit 238.6 1.1 237.5 Pension contributions in excess of service cost and administration cost 15.4 1.1 14.3 Net cash from operating activities 288.2 288.2 2.9m reported in the 2012 Annual Report and Accounts on a separate line in the Income Statement Business divestments and similar income has been combined into administrative expenses, with a consequential change to operating profit.
88 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements 3.
Underlying measures Underlying measures, defined in note 1 on page 81, are derived from operating profit as set out below: 2012 m Note 2013 as restated Operating profit 158.8 237.5 Business restructuring Excellence in Delivery 56.1 37.9 Movements in non-hedge accounted derivative financial instruments 2.2 11.1 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations 103.9 68.9 Impairment of goodwill 11 63.0 Revaluation gain arising on equity interests in FBH 2012: Thrane & Thrane 29 62.1 1.0 Other business acquisition and divestment related items Net profit on divestment of emergency locator beacons business 7.8 Additional profit on other divestments in prior years 2.1 7.4 Adjustments to businesses held for sale 8.3 13.3 Release of contingent consideration 20 11.9 8.7 Other M&A related costs 5.8 10.4 Trading profit 317.6 332.0 Net underlying finance costs 29.6 31.8 Underlying profit before taxation 288.0 300.2 Taxation charge on underlying profit 57.0 58.5 Non-controlling interests 0.2 0.1 Underlying profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent 230.8 241.6 Underlying basic EPS 21.60p 22.48p Underlying diluted EPS 21.51p 22.42p Underlying administrative expenses, which exclude the reconciling items in the table above, amounted to 169.6m 2012: 170.4m as restated, representing 9.5% 2012: 9.7% of revenue.
Business restructuring costs relate to the restructuring of the Groups portfolio under its EiD programme which are incremental to normal operations.
These relate exclusively to the ongoing design and implementation of Standard Operating Frameworks within the principal locations, initial development costs of a new ERP computer system, together with site consolidation, consequential asset write downs and workforce reduction costs arising from additional streamlining under the two year extension of the programme, which continues into 2015.
As disclosed in note 29, on 15 July 2013 an agreement was reached to acquire the 50% shareholding that the Group did not already own in FBH.
The proceeds of the deemed disposal of the 50% interest previously held were valued at 74.2m which generated the revaluation gain arising on equity interests in FBH of 62.1m.
Net cash from operating activities is reconciled to free cash flow as follows: m 2013 2012 Net cash from operating activities per cash flow statement 210.6 288.2 Dividends received from joint ventures 3.7 7.5 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 58.0 48.2 Purchase of intangible assets 11.0 13.8 Capitalised expenditure on intangible assets 1.4 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 8.0 1.0 M&A costs paid 1.7 7.8 Free cash flow 155.0 241.1 Free cash flow before Excellence in Delivery restructuring costs 205.9 272.9 www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 89 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 4.
Revenue and segmental information Revenue Revenue comprises income from the sale of goods and services during the year and can be analysed as follows: m 2013 2012 Revenue from sale of goods 1,424.8 1,423.1 Revenue from services 364.9 326.3 1,789.7 1,749.4 Major customers Revenue of 130.8m 2012: 162.9m is directly attributable to US Government departments and agencies, although this is widely spread across different agencies and customers.
This accounts for 7.3% of total revenue 2012: 9.3% and originates in all segments other than Cobham Aviation Services.
In addition, a number of customers also sell our products on to various US Government departments and agencies.
Non-core businesses are those which were identified for divestment in 2011.
The Groups share of the post-tax results of joint ventures and associates arises in Aviation Services 3.1m, 2012: 7.0m and Aerospace and Security nil, 2012: 0.4m.
Trading profit is reconciled to profit before taxation as follows: 2012 m Note 2013 as restated Trading profit 317.6 332.0 Business restructuring Excellence in Delivery 3 56.1 37.9 Movements in non-hedge accounted derivative financial instruments 23 2.2 11.1 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations 103.9 68.9 Impairment of goodwill 10 63.0 Revaluation gain arising on equity interests in FBH 2012: Thrane & Thrane 29 62.1 1.0 Other business acquisition and divestment related items 0.1 0.2 Net finance costs 6 32.2 33.5 Profit before taxation 126.6 204.0 90 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements Depreciation of property, plant and equipment, investment properties and amortisation of internally generated intangibles are included in the calculation of trading profit and can be analysed by segment as follows: m 2013 2012 Aerospace and Security 17.3 14.7 Defence Systems 13.5 14.8 Mission Systems 6.4 6.5 Aviation Services 30.6 23.6 Core Group 67.8 59.6 Non-core businesses 0.4 0.7 Total Group 68.2 60.3 Details of employees analysed by operating segment can be found in note 5.
Geographical information Revenue Revenue from external customers analysed by their geographical location, irrespective of the origin of the goods and services, is shown below.
Revenue from customers located in individual countries within the EU except the UK and the rest of the world is not considered to be individually material.
Other EU Rest of the m UK USA Australia countries Asia world Total Year to 31 December 2013 235.2 812.5 249.8 277.4 132.8 82.0 1,789.7 Year to 31 December 2012 172.3 885.6 241.4 292.5 99.3 58.3 1,749.4 Non-current assets Non-current assets are analysed by the physical location of the assets and exclude financial instruments and deferred tax assets.
Operating costs Operating costs include materials costs of 592.7m 2012: 575.4m within cost of sales in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Company funded research and development m 2013 2012 Company funded research and development 88.0 75.4 Employment costs The aggregate employment costs of Group employees are as follows: m Note 2013 2012 Wages and salaries 497.0 467.2 Social security costs 41.1 39.0 Pension costs 24 29.6 25.7 Share based payments 28 1.7 6.8 566.0 538.7 www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 91 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued The average number of employees during the year, analysed by segment, is as follows: 2013 2012 Aerospace and Security 4,140 4,019 Defence Systems 2,206 2,329 Mission Systems 1,500 1,473 Aviation Services 1,931 1,815 Head office and other activities 184 131 Core Group 9,961 9,767 Non-core businesses 129 225 Total Group 10,090 9,992 Compensation of key management personnel The remuneration of Directors and other members of key management during the year was as follows: m 2013 2012 Remuneration 6.2 5.8 Post-employment benefits 0.7 0.6 Share based payments 0.5 3.8 6.4 10.2 Audit fees During the year the Group obtained the following services from the Companys auditors,  LLP and its associates, as follows: m 2013 2012 Annual audit of the Parent Company and Group Financial Statements 1.0 1.1 Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 1.1 0.9 Total fees payable for audit services 2.1 2.0 Fees payable for other services Tax compliance services 0.3 0.2 Other tax advisory services 1.2 0.8 Other audit related assurance services 0.2 0.1 Total fees payable for other services 1.7 1.1 Total fees payable to the auditors 3.8 3.1 In addition to the amounts shown above, the auditors received fees of 45,750 in 2012 for the audit of the Groups pension schemes.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 44 to 47 and includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence are safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors.
92 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements 6.
Finance income and costs 2012 m Note 2013 as restated Finance income Bank interest 3.3 4.0 Other finance income 2.0 2.8 Total finance income 5.3 6.8 Finance costs Interest on bank overdrafts and loans 29.6 32.1 Interest on net pension scheme liabilities 24 2.8 2.9 Other finance expense 5.1 5.3 Total finance costs 37.5 40.3 Net finance costs excluding pension schemes 29.4 30.6 Net finance costs arising from pension schemes 2.8 2.9 Net finance costs 32.2 33.5 Other finance expense above includes 1.5m 2012: 2.8m in relation to interest rate swaps previously designated as cash flow hedges which were terminated during 2009 and have been amortised over the life of the original contracts to August 2013.
It also includes 2.6m 2012: 1.7m relating to the unwinding of acquisition related discounting, excluded from underlying profit in note 3.
Income tax expense 2012 m Note 2013 as restated Current tax Charge for the year 44.1 50.0 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 14.7 2.6 Current tax 29.4 47.4 Deferred tax Credit for the year 16.5 0.5 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 0.2 14.7 Impact of change in tax rates 1.0 Deferred tax 22 17.3 15.2 Total tax charge for the year 12.1 32.2 Income tax is calculated on the estimated assessable profit for the year at the rates prevailing in the relevant tax jurisdiction.
The total tax charge for the year includes 7.7m 2012: 6.8m for the UK.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 93 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued The total charge for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows: 2012 m 2013 as restated Profit before tax 126.6 204.0 Tax thereon at the UK income tax rate of 23.25% 2012: 24.5% 29.4 50.0 Tax effect of share of results of joint ventures and associates 0.7 1.8 Effect of differences in overseas taxation rates 1.0 6.7 Expenditure qualifying for additional R&D tax relief 3.7 5.7 Revaluation gain on FBH 14.4 Goodwill impairment 14.6 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 14.5 17.3 Impact of other items 0.4 0.3 Total tax charge for the year 12.1 32.2 In addition to the tax expense charged to the income statement, the following charges credits have been included in OCI and equity: 2012 m 2013 as restated Included in OCI Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Actuarial loss on retirement benefit obligations 4.1 1.8 Actuarial loss on other retirement benefit obligations 0.2 4.1 2.0 Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss Movements in hedge accounted derivative financial instruments 1.2 3.2 Included in equity Share based payments 2.6 0.5 The rate of UK corporation tax will reduce from 23% to 21% from 1 April 2014 and to 20% from 1 April 2015.
Dividends m 2013 2012 Final dividend of 6.4 pence per share for 2012 2011: 6.2 pence 68.5 66.7 Interim dividend of 2.64 pence per share for 2013 2012: 2.4 pence 28.1 25.8 Total dividend authorised and paid during the year 96.6 92.5 In addition to the above, the Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2013 of 7.04 pence per share at an estimated total cost of 75.2m.
This dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
If authorised, it will be paid on 30 May 2014 to shareholders who are on the register of members as at 2 May 2014.
The total dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2013 will therefore be 9.68 pence per share 2012: 8.8 pence.
The total amount payable in respect of 2013 will be 103.3m.
94 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements 9.
Earnings per Ordinary Share 2013 2012 Weighted Weighted average average Per share number of Per share Earnings number of amount Earnings shares amount as restated shares as restated m million pence m million pence Basic earnings per share EPS Earnings attributable to owners of the parent 114.3 1,068.7 10.70 171.7 1,074.7 15.98 Effect of dilutive securities 4.3 3.0 Diluted EPS 114.3 1,073.0 10.65 171.7 1,077.7 15.93 10.
Cash and cash equivalents and net debt Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents and net debt m 2013 2012 Cash and cash equivalents as shown in Cash Flow Statement 199.0 250.2 Bank overdrafts 1.7 14.0 Cash and cash equivalents per Balance Sheet 200.7 264.2 Borrowings current liabilities 344.5 307.3 Borrowings non-current liabilities 309.6 316.8 Net debt at 31 December 453.4 359.9 Details of the offsetting of overdrafts with cash and cash equivalents and other financial instruments can be found in note 16.
Reconciliation of movements in net debt m 2013 2012 Net debt at 1 January 359.9 232.5 Decrease in cash and cash equivalents in the year per Cash Flow Statement 36.8 73.4 New borrowings 67.0 184.5 Repayment of borrowings 7.7 113.1 Exchange movements 2.6 17.4 Net debt at 31 December 453.4 359.9 www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 95 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 11.
This has been excluded from underlying profit as shown in note 3.
All amortisation charges are included within administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Business combinations during the year represent the acquisition of Axell Wireless and the 50% of the shares of FB Heliservices Limited, FB Leasing Limited and FBS Limited together FBH not already owned by Cobham.
Axell Wireless forms part of the Antenna Systems strategic business unit SBU and FBH operates within the Aviation Services SBU.
Further details can be found in note 29.
96 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements Customer relationships represents customer lists, customer contracts and the associated benefits of customer relationships recognised on acquisition.
Technology based assets represent trade secrets and processes, patented and unpatented technology and know-how recognised on acquisition, together with purchased technology assets.
Other intangible assets represent purchased and acquired patents, licences and trademarks, software rights and licences and the order backlog of acquired businesses at the date of acquisition.
Order backlog is derecognised when it has been fully amortised.
Goodwill and annual impairment review Goodwill represents the premium paid in anticipation of future economic benefits from assets that are not capable of being separately identified and separately recognised, such as the value of the workforce, and is the only indefinite life intangible asset held by the Group.
The Group reviews goodwill for potential impairment of each cash generating unit CGU annually, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
As a result of the site integrations and other EiD activity, CGUs are typically considered to be SBUs.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations unless specific conditions at a CGU dictate otherwise.
Businesses held for sale are assessed for impairment using expected net proceeds of divestment.
Following an impairment review of the Cobham Tactical Communications and Surveillance SBU TC&S, part of the Aerospace and Security segment, an impairment loss of 63.0m has been recognised.
Elements of the TC&S business have an exposure to short cycle orders from US military and other US government agencies, which were impacted significantly by budget spending constraints, particularly in the second half of 2013.
While a recovery in activity is expected in the medium term it is considered appropriate to recognise an impairment of the carrying value in light of the impact of the current situation on the value in use calculation.
A discount rate of 9.0% 2012: 9.3% was used in the value in use calculation.
The remaining goodwill related to this SBU is 43.3m.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and operating cash projections during the period for which management have detailed plans.
Management estimate discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the Groups time value of money and the risks specific to the CGU being measured.
As part of its annual strategic planning process, the Group prepares cash flow forecasts for the following five years at CGU level.
These are approved by management.
These forecasts take into account the current and expected economic environment including factors such as the softening of the US defence market in the near term.
The growth rate assumed after this five year period is based on long term GDP projections of the primary market for the CGU.
The long term projections used are in the range 2.0% to 2.5%.
The growth rates assume that demand for the Groups products in the US and in the UK remains broadly in line with the underlying economic environment in the long term future.
Taking into account the expectation of future market conditions, management believe that the evolution of selling prices and direct costs will reflect past practices.
The pre-tax rates used to discount the forecast cash flows are within the range 8.1% to 10.7% 2012: 8.8% to 10.9%, having considered the country and currency risks in the principal territories in which the Group operates.
If the goodwill allocated to a CGU represents more than 10% of the Groups total goodwill carrying value, then the CGU is considered to be individually significant.
These CGUs are as follows: Goodwill carrying value Headroom Pre-tax discount Projected GDP CGU Operating segment m m rate growth rate Defence Electronics Defence Systems 215 153 9.5% 2.5% SATCOM Aerospace and Security 205 398 9.0% 2.1% Antenna Systems Aerospace and Security 122 699 9.4% 2.2% Life Support Mission Systems 85 418 9.5% 2.5% Sensitivity analysis has been performed on these CGUs and no impairment losses would arise if the discount rate increased by 20%, if the growth rate was zero or if cash flows reduced by 20%.
The Directors have not identified any other likely changes in other significant assumptions that would cause the carrying value of recognised goodwill to exceed its recoverable amount.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 97 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 12.
Investment properties m 2013 2012 Carrying amount at 1 January 10.7 11.2 Disposals 0.3 Depreciation 0.4 0.3 Foreign exchange adjustments 0.1 0.2 Carrying amount at 31 December 9.9 10.7 The total fair value of the Groups investment properties has been assessed to be 14.2m 2012: 18.0m.
This includes 7.8m for UK properties based on estimated market prices provided by external valuers, Vail Williams LLP as at 31 December 2013, and 6.4m for the US property, which is based on Directors estimates using current market data.
Property rental income earned by the Group from its investment properties amounted to 1.9m 2012: 1.8m, which is net of all direct costs associated with the leasing of the property except depreciation.
The buildings are leased to commercial users on operating leases with terms of between 5 and 25 years, commencing between 1998 and 2010.
Investments in joint ventures and associates The Group has the following interests in joint ventures and associates: Percentage Nature of Country of incorporation Name shareholding relationship Reporting segment or registration Aviation Dfense Service SA 45% Joint venture Aviation Services France Northrop Grumman Cobham Intercoms LLC 50% Joint venture Aerospace and Security USA Philtech Co. Ltd 30% Associate Aerospace and Security South Korea The Companys joint ventures and associates all have share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares, which are indirectly held, and the country of incorporation or registration is also their principal place of operation.
Details of the acquisition of FB Heliservices Limited, FBS Limited and FB Leasing Limited, which were previously held as joint ventures, are given in note 29.
The 45% investment in Aviation Dfense Service SA is treated as a joint venture because the governance structure means that the Group has joint control with its partner.
The share of the balance sheets and income statements of the joint ventures, included in the consolidated financial statements, is as follows: m 2013 2012 Current assets 2.1 13.1 Non-current assets 4.1 44.4 Current liabilities 2.8 13.5 Non-current liabilities 0.3 28.2 Net assets 3.1 15.8 Income 25.2 49.6 Expenses 20.4 39.6 The assets and results of the associated undertaking are not separately disclosed on the basis of materiality.
The address of the principal place of business of Philtech Co. Ltd is Sujeong-gu, Seonngnam-si, Gyeonggido, South Korea.
Inventories m 2013 2012 Raw materials and consumables 139.0 128.1 Work in progress 187.0 185.8 Finished goods and goods for resale 36.8 34.2 Allowance for obsolescence 46.9 41.7 315.9 306.4 www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 99 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued During the year 15.2m 2012: 14.0m was provided, 6.1m 2012: 5.0m was utilised and 6.4m 2012: 9.4m of the allowance for obsolescence was reversed.
This allowance is reviewed by management on a regular basis and further amounts are provided or released as considered necessary.
The amounts are generally determined based on factors which include ageing and known demand.
Subsequent events may give rise to these estimates being revised and, consequently, to the reversal of amounts previously provided.
Inventory will be realised within the normal operating cycle of the businesses.
Within the Mission Systems segment, inventory relating to long term contracts expected to be realised after more than 12 months amounts to 39.0m 2012: 34.6m.
Financial instruments The Groups financial assets and liabilities can be categorised as follows: Fair value Derivatives Loans and through profit Amortised used for Total carrying m Note receivables or loss cost hedging amount Fair value Financial assets Trade receivables 17 238.3 238.3 238.3 Other receivables 17 76.9 76.9 76.9 Cash and cash equivalents 10 200.7 200.7 200.7 Derivative contracts not hedge accounted 23 11.7 11.7 11.7 Other financial assets 6.1 6.1 6.1 Financial liabilities Borrowings 19 654.1 654.1 687.5 Trade payables 20 117.1 117.1 117.1 Accruals 99.6 99.6 99.6 Contingent consideration 20 27.4 27.4 27.4 Other financial liabilities 20 47.8 47.8 47.8 Derivative contracts not hedge accounted 23 8.8 8.8 8.8 Hedging instruments Liabilities 23 3.2 3.2 3.2 Net financial liabilities at 31 December 2013 424.3 457.7 Financial assets Trade receivables 17 225.2 225.2 225.2 Other receivables 17 82.3 82.3 82.3 Cash and cash equivalents 10 264.2 264.2 264.2 Derivative contracts not hedge accounted 23 7.1 7.1 7.1 Financial liabilities Borrowings 19 624.1 624.1 675.4 Trade payables 20 105.1 105.1 105.1 Accruals 109.9 109.9 109.9 Contingent consideration 20 16.8 16.8 16.8 Other financial liabilities 20 41.8 41.8 41.8 Derivative contracts not hedge accounted 23 8.6 8.6 8.6 Hedging instruments Liabilities 23 8.3 8.3 8.3 Net financial liabilities at 31 December 2012 335.8 387.1 Borrowings are held at amortised cost which equates to fair value except for the Groups fixed rate senior notes.
At 31 December 2013 the fair value of those notes was 250.1m 31 December 2012: 272.2m compared to their book value of 216.7m 31 December 2012: 220.9m.
The fair value of the senior notes and derivative financial instruments have been determined by reference to observable market prices and rates.
100 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements Cash and cash equivalents include term deposits in Australia equivalent to 6.4m in total 2012: 7.5m.
These term deposits are held primarily to satisfy a requirement to provide security over the residual value of leased assets under an agreement which expires in 2020 but can be realised within three months under the terms of the agreements.
Other financial assets relate to Cobham plcs investments in connection with the FSTA project which are held at cost, totalling 6.1m 2012: 44,000.
These trade investments are categorised as available for sale in accordance with IAS 39.
The results of these companies are not consolidated within the results of the Group: 13% of the voting share capital of AirTanker Holdings Limited.
5% of the voting share capital of AirTanker Services Limited.
13.3% of the voting share capital of AirTanker Equity Bridge Loan Limited.
The total interest income and expense for financial assets and liabilities not held at fair value through profit or loss is as shown in note 6.
Offsetting financial assets and liabilities The following financial assets and liabilities are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements.
Cash and cash equivalents as shown in the balance sheet include overdraft balances on currency cash pooling accounts which have been offset as the accounts will be settled on a net basis as described in note 25.
Master netting agreements also cover all bank balances and derivative balances with the same counterparty.
These do not meet the criteria for offsetting because the right to offset is only enforceable on the occurrence of future events such as a default and amounts presented in the Balance Sheet are therefore presented on a gross basis.
If full offsetting by counterparty were to be applied, the resulting net amounts would be as follows: Amounts as Amounts set presented in Amounts not Gross amounts off in the the Balance set off in the m before set off Balance Sheet Sheet Balance Sheet Net amount Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 343.9 143.2 200.7 1.4 199.3 Derivative financial assets 11.7 11.7 5.9 5.8 Financial liabilities Bank overdrafts 144.9 143.2 1.7 1.7 Derivative financial liabilities 12.0 12.0 5.6 6.4 As at 31 December 2013 198.7 198.7 198.7 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 370.3 106.1 264.2 10.4 253.8 Derivative financial assets 7.1 7.1 3.0 4.1 Financial liabilities Bank overdrafts 120.1 106.1 14.0 11.2 2.8 Derivative financial liabilities 16.9 16.9 2.2 14.7 As at 31 December 2012 240.4 240.4 240.4 17.
Current m 2013 2012 Trade receivables net of provision for impairment 238.3 225.2 Accrued income 38.2 15.2 Loans and other receivables 16.5 20.0 Prepayments 24.7 20.6 317.7 281.0 www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 101 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 17b.
Non-current m 2013 2012 Loans and other receivables 22.2 47.1 17c.
Impairment of trade receivables m 2013 2012 Trade receivables 239.9 227.9 Provision for impairment of trade receivables 1.6 2.7 Net trade receivables 238.3 225.2 The Group has not experienced any material change in performance with respect to the recovery of trade receivables.
A significant proportion of its business is directly with government agencies or in respect of large government funded military programmes, where risk is considered to remain low.
Information concerning credit risk is shown in note 25.
The credit quality of trade receivables can be analysed as follows: m 2013 2012 Amounts not yet due and not impaired 186.0 186.4 Amounts past due but not impaired 51.1 37.5 Amounts for which full or partial impairment provision has been made 2.8 4.0 At 31 December 239.9 227.9 Trade receivables which are past due but not considered by management to be impaired are aged as follows: m 2013 2012 Due at 31 December 34.3 26.4 1 month overdue 10.1 4.5 2 months overdue 2.8 2.4 3 or more months overdue 3.9 4.2 51.1 37.5 Other classes of financial assets within trade and other receivables do not include any overdue or impaired assets.
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables during the current and prior year were not individually significant.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale m 2013 2012 Intangible assets 1.1 Property, plant and equipment 1.9 3.1 Inventories 2.8 6.1 Trade and other receivables 3.5 4.8 Total assets classified as held for sale 8.2 15.1 Trade and other payables 4.7 2.5 Tax and other liabilities 0.5 0.7 Total liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale 5.2 3.2 Total net assets of disposal groups and non-current assets held for sale 3.0 11.9 Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale at 31 December 2013 includes businesses and vacant properties which are being actively marketed and are expected to be disposed of within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
These assets are measured on a non-recurring basis at fair value based on an estimated sales price less costs to sell as this is lower than the original carrying value of those assets.
102 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements 19.
Borrowings m 2013 2012 Current: Bank overdrafts 1.7 14.0 Bank loans 296.4 292.3 Senior notes 46.2 Loan notes, finance leases and other borrowings 0.2 1.0 344.5 307.3 Non-current: Bank loans 45.3 Senior notes 264.1 316.2 Finance leases 0.2 0.6 309.6 316.8 Total borrowings 654.1 624.1 The Groups principal borrowings include bank overdrafts, bank loans and senior notes.
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and accrue interest at floating rates.
Interest is payable on all bank loans at LIBOR plus margin and the loans comprise the following: Amount drawn Undrawn facilities 2013 2012 2013 2012 Agreement date Maturity date m m m m US$75m credit agreement December 2008 December 2016 45.3 46.2 DKK525m multi-currency revolving facility June 2012 October 2017 52.7 18.9 5.8 38.2 US$360m multi-currency revolving credit agreement comprising: October 2011 US$90m October 2016 51.7 53.5 2.6 1.9 US$270m October 2018 155.2 160.5 7.9 5.6 EUR70m multi-currency revolving facility June 2012 June 2017 36.8 13.2 21.4 43.6 341.7 292.3 37.7 89.3 Under the US$75m agreement, which expires in 2031, the lender has a series of put options exercisable every three years from December 2016.
The US$360m agreement contains lenders options to extend for up to two years and during 2012 the first extension of one year was confirmed by the lenders of US$270m.
The DKK525m facility contains lenders options that could extend the agreement by up to two years.
A loan agreement for AUS$90m expiring in October 2018 was signed subsequent to the year-end.
The drawdowns under the revolving multi-currency credit agreements are for periods not exceeding three months and hence these balances are reported as current liabilities.
Senior notes with a total principal value of US$514.0m are outstanding as set out below: m Issue date Maturity date 2013 2012 US$76.5m fixed rate March 2009 March 2014 46.2 47.1 US$81m fixed rate March 2009 March 2016 48.9 49.8 US$50m floating rate May 2010 May 2017 30.2 30.8 US$105m floating rate January 2010 February March 2018 63.4 64.5 US$157.5m fixed rate March 2009 March 2019 95.0 96.9 US$44m fixed rate October 2012 October 2020 26.6 27.1 310.3 316.2 www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 103 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued The various loan and note subscription agreements include both financial and non-financial covenants but do not contain any provisions for charges over Group assets.
The terms of the financial covenants are based on adjusted IFRS results and are as shown on page 25.
There have been no breaches of the terms of agreements or defaults during the current or comparative periods.
Current liabilities m 2013 2012 Payments received on account 72.3 68.6 Trade payables 116.4 104.8 Other taxes and social security 19.2 20.6 Accruals and deferred income 104.4 116.6 Contingent consideration 15.2 2.5 Other liabilities 42.8 36.8 370.3 349.9 20b.
Non-current liabilities m 2013 2012 Payments received on account 9.4 11.3 Trade payables 0.7 0.3 Accruals and deferred income 10.7 8.2 Contingent consideration 12.2 14.3 Other liabilities 5.0 5.0 38.0 39.1 Movements in the fair value of contingent consideration during the year are as follows: m 2013 At 1 January 2013 16.8 Acquired on business combinations 22.1 Amounts paid 2.5 Gains or losses recognised in profit or loss: Released in year 11.9 Unrealised change in fair value discounting included in finance costs 2.6 Foreign exchange adjustments 0.3 At 31 December 2013 27.4 The fair value of contingent consideration is not based on observable market data but is based on managements best estimates of discounted expected payments of contingent consideration reflecting expectations of achievement of earnings targets.
The estimated fair value would decrease with lower than anticipated annual revenue growth rates and profit margin or a higher discount rate.
Management consider that changing the unobservable inputs to reflect other reasonably possible alternative assumptions would not result in a significant change in the estimated fair value.
Of the amount outstanding at 31 December 2013, 12.5m has been paid in January 2014 and the remainder is due to be paid by March 2015.
Contingent consideration has been released in the year following a reassessment of the likely outcome of the agreements relating to acquisitions in a prior year.
The amount released is included in administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement and is excluded from underlying profit in note 3.
104 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements 21.
Provisions m 2013 2012 Current liabilities 34.4 36.3 Non-current liabilities 8.6 10.9 43.0 47.2 Movements in provisions during the year are as follows: Provisions related to Aircraft businesses Warranty Contract loss maintenance m divested claims provisions provisions Other Total At 1 January 2013 12.8 10.3 5.4 3.4 15.3 47.2 Additional provisions in the year 5.0 2.8 2.0 3.7 13.5 Acquired on business combinations 0.1 0.1 Utilisation of provisions 0.7 3.1 2.3 0.4 3.2 9.7 Unused amounts reversed in the year 1.3 2.0 1.5 1.3 1.9 8.0 Reclassifications 0.3 0.3 Foreign exchange adjustments 0.2 0.6 0.4 At 31 December 2013 10.8 10.5 4.4 3.4 13.9 43.0 Provisions related to businesses divested relate to longer term warranties given on divestments completed in 2005.
Due to uncertainties surrounding the timing of settlement of these items, they have been disclosed as current liabilities.
Provisions for warranty claims and contract losses are generally expected to be crystallised within one year.
Aircraft maintenance provisions relate to significant periodic maintenance costs as well as return conditions for leased aircraft.
These conditions may relate to the number of operational hours to be available before a major maintenance check, the physical configuration of the aircraft or direct costs to be incurred by the lessee in the physical return of the aircraft to the lessor.
While there is uncertainty over the future level of flying hours, aircraft maintenance provisions are anticipated to crystallise in the next eight years.
Other provisions include amounts provided in respect of announced business restructuring and legal claims and are expected to be settled within one year.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 105 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 22.
Deferred tax m 2013 2012 Deferred tax assets 9.9 9.8 Deferred tax liabilities 52.9 44.2 43.0 34.4 The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group, and the movements thereon: Accelerated Retirement tax benefit Intangible m depreciation obligations assets Other Total At 1 January 2012 10.8 17.8 24.1 19.9 2.8 Credit charge to income statement as restated 7.3 2.6 3.8 28.9 15.2 Charge credit to other comprehensive income as restated 1.8 16.9 15.1 Credit to reserves 0.5 0.5 Acquired with business combinations 0.6 37.4 2.6 35.4 Business divestments 1.3 1.3 Foreign exchange adjustments 0.3 1.2 1.3 0.2 Reclassifications 1.3 1.3 At 1 January 2013 18.4 17.0 65.4 32.4 34.4 Credit charge to income statement 2.3 2.7 20.1 2.2 17.3 Credit charge to other comprehensive income 4.1 1.2 2.9 Credit to reserves 2.1 2.1 Acquired with business combinations 1.6 27.4 2.6 28.4 Foreign exchange adjustments 0.8 1.2 2.5 2.9 Reclassifications 0.4 0.4 At 31 December 2013 18.3 18.4 73.5 30.4 43.0 Other deferred tax assets and liabilities shown above include balances arising from temporary differences in relation to provisions, deferred compensation, share based payments and derivative financial instruments.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
Deferred tax balances after offset for balance sheet purposes are analysed as follows: m 2013 2012 Deferred tax liabilities fall due as follows: Within one year 17.6 7.2 After one year 35.3 37.0 52.9 44.2 Deferred tax assets are recoverable as follows: Within one year 5.7 2.8 After one year 4.2 7.0 9.9 9.8 106 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements Without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances, deferred tax balances are as follows: Accelerated Retirement tax benefit Intangible m depreciation obligations assets Other Total Deferred tax assets 18.4 44.8 63.2 Deferred tax liabilities 18.3 73.5 14.4 106.2 At 31 December 2013 18.3 18.4 73.5 30.4 43.0 Deferred tax assets 0.8 17.0 42.2 60.0 Deferred tax liabilities 19.2 65.4 9.8 94.4 At 31 December 2012 18.4 17.0 65.4 32.4 34.4 At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused capital losses of 65.7m 2012: 65.7m potentially available for offset against future capital profits in certain circumstances.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of this amount because of the unpredictability of future qualifying profit streams.
These losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries and joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is 369.2m 2012: 431.1m.
Derivative financial instruments The fair values of derivative financial instruments are as follows: Interest rate Foreign swaps cash exchange m flow hedges derivatives Inflation swap Total Non-current assets 5.1 5.1 Current assets 6.6 6.6 Current liabilities 0.5 3.6 0.5 4.6 Non-current liabilities 2.7 1.8 2.9 7.4 Fair value at 31 December 2013 3.2 6.3 3.4 0.3 Non-current assets 3.4 3.4 Current assets 3.7 3.7 Current liabilities 3.5 2.6 0.5 6.6 Non-current liabilities 4.8 2.7 2.8 10.3 Fair value at 31 December 2012 8.3 1.8 3.3 9.8 www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 107 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued The movements in the fair values of derivative financial instruments during the year are as follows: Interest rate Foreign swaps cash exchange m Note flow hedges derivatives Inflation swap Total At 1 January 2012 12.4 14.4 1.7 28.5 Gain loss through income statement not hedged 12.8 1.7 11.1 Gain through income statement other 3.4 3.4 Gain reclassified to income statement 27 7.2 7.2 Loss through OCI hedged items 27 3.5 3.5 Foreign exchange adjustments 27 0.4 0.1 0.5 At 1 January 2013 8.3 1.8 3.3 9.8 Gain loss through income statement not hedged 2.9 0.7 2.2 Gain through income statement other 1.5 1.5 Gain reclassified to income statement 27 4.5 4.5 Foreign exchange adjustments 27 0.6 0.1 0.6 1.3 At 31 December 2013 3.2 6.3 3.4 0.3 Interest rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedging instruments and hedge accounting is applied.
There is no material ineffectiveness in cash flow hedges to be reported through the income statement.
Foreign exchange and inflation derivatives are not accounted for using hedge accounting and movements in fair values are recorded in the income statement as part of operating profit.
The movement in the fair value of currency swaps which offset movements in currency balances are offset against exchange movements in those balances in the income statement.
Full details of the Groups financial instrument accounting policies and risk management strategies, objectives and policies are set out in the accounting policies in note 1 and in note 25, financial risk management.
108 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements 24.
Retirement benefit schemes Retirement benefit obligations per the Balance Sheet consist of: m 2013 2012 Defined benefit scheme assets 577.6 572.4 Defined benefit obligations 664.9 645.8 87.3 73.4 Pension expense included in employment costs in note 5 are as follows: m 2013 2012 Defined benefit schemes 5.2 4.6 Defined contribution schemes 24.4 21.1 29.6 25.7 The Group operates a number of funded defined benefit schemes, the most significant being the Cobham Pension Plan CPP.
The assets of all of these schemes are held separately from those of the Group in funds under the control of trustees.
All defined benefit schemes have been closed to new members since 2003.
The Group also manages a number of defined contribution pension arrangements.
Actuarial valuations of the present value of the defined benefit obligations for the CPP are carried out on a triennial basis by qualified independent actuaries: the most recent valuation was as at 1 April 2012.
Actuarial valuations of other schemes have been carried out at regular intervals as required by the applicable country regulations.
The actuarial valuations were updated by qualified independent actuaries for accounting purposes to 31 December 2013.
On 1 July 2013 the liabilities related to past service of pensioners of the CPP on that date were subject to a buy-in arrangement.
Under the terms of this arrangement, the CPP transferred assets to an insurance company in return for a qualifying insurance policy which provides an income stream to the Plan equivalent to the Plans obligations to pensioners covered by the arrangement.
This eliminated the Groups exposure to the interest, inflation and longevity risks associated with these liabilities.
The liabilities covered by this buy-in amounted to 242m, which had the impact of generating an actuarial loss of 39m.
This follows similar buy-in arrangements completed in 2011 related to past service of pensioner and deferred members of some of the smaller defined benefit schemes.
The insurance contract assets are measured at a value equal to the related liabilities.
There were no significant contributions outstanding at the end of 2013 or 2012 for the defined benefit schemes.
1.2m 2012: 0.6m was outstanding in respect of defined contribution schemes but not due for payment at 31 December 2013.
The principal financial assumptions used for the purpose of the actuarial valuations were as follows: 2013 2012 UK USA UK USA schemes scheme schemes scheme Rate of increase in salary costs 3.80% 3.80% 3.47% 3.47% Rate of increase in pensions in payment unless overridden by specific scheme rules 3.55% 3.55% 2.97% 2.97% Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.55% 3.55% 2.17% 2.97% Discount rate 4.50% 4.50% 4.40% 4.40% Inflation assumption 3.55% 3.55% 2.97% 2.97% www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 109 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued The mortality assumptions used for the CPP are based upon actuarial tables which reflect actual recent mortality experience and also allow for future mortality improvements.
The mortality tables used to estimate life expectancy are known as SAPS CMI 09.
In practical terms, this is demonstrated in the table below: Further life Year of birth Year age 65 expectancy Male 1948 2013 22.7 years Female 1948 2013 24.8 years Male 1980 2045 25.8 years Female 1980 2045 27.9 years At 31 December 2013 it has been assumed that members will commute on average 20% 2012: 20% of their pension for cash at retirement.
This implies a full take-up of the permitted 25% 2012: 25% commutation by approximately 80% 2012: 80% of eligible members on retirement.
The sensitivity of scheme liabilities to changes in certain key assumptions, after adjusting for liabilities covered by insurance contracts, is provided below: Increasing the discount rate by 0.1% would decrease scheme liabilities by 6.2m.
Increasing the inflation rate by 0.1% would increase scheme liabilities by 3.4m.
If each scheme member was expected to live for an additional year, then scheme liabilities would increase by 9.4m.
The impact of increases and decreases in assumptions are approximately symmetrical.
A summary of the movements in the net liability and the amounts recognised in the income statement and other comprehensive income are as follows: 2013 2012 Defined Defined Scheme benefit Scheme benefit m assets obligations Total assets obligations Total Net liability at start of year 572.4 645.8 73.4 528.7 599.9 71.2 Amounts recognised in operating profit: Current service cost included in administrative expenses 5.2 5.2 4.3 4.3 Past service cost credit included in administrative expenses 0.3 0.3 Scheme administration expenses 1.4 1.4 1.1 1.1 Amounts credited charged to other finance income costs: Net interest 25.2 28.0 2.8 25.7 28.6 2.9 Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income: Actual return less interest income on pension scheme assets 22.8 22.8 14.8 14.8 Actuarial loss arising on buy-in transaction 39.0 39.0 Experience gains arising on scheme liabilities 12.8 12.8 Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 18.1 18.1 40.9 40.9 Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions 8.7 8.7 0.4 0.4 Amounts included in cash flow statement: Employer contributions 21.1 21.1 20.0 20.0 Member contributions 2.7 2.7 2.8 2.8 NI rebates 0.6 0.6 Benefits paid 25.9 25.9 18.4 18.4 Other changes: Exchange differences 0.3 0.3 0.7 0.8 0.1 Net liability at end of year 577.6 664.9 87.3 572.4 645.8 73.4 110 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements Total employer contributions exceeded current service cost, past service cost and scheme administration expenses by 14.5m 2012: 14.3m.
The present value of funded obligations relating to the US scheme is US$35.5m 2012: US$34.5m and the fair value of scheme assets relating to the US scheme is US$26.2m 2012: US$21.3m.
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income since transition to IFRS is 208.1m loss 2012: 182.5m loss.
Of the actuarial losses recognised in the year, the changes in financial assumptions are primarily driven by the movements in the discount rate and inflation assumption, and the change in demographic assumptions primarily arose from changes to the assumed proportion of members who are married on the date of their retirement.
The actual return on scheme assets was 48.0m 2012: 40.5m before accounting for the actuarial loss of 39.0m generated on the buy-in transaction.
The Group expects to contribute 22.1m to its defined benefit pension schemes in 2014.
This includes 17.6m related to deficit funding.
The weighted average duration of the scheme liabilities is estimated to be 19 years.
The fair value of major categories of scheme assets, and as a percentage of total scheme assets, is as follows: 2013 2012 m % m % UK equity instruments 74.7 12.9% 95.7 16.7% Overseas equities 43.0 7.4% 50.6 8.8% Emerging markets equities 20.0 3.5% 21.1 3.7% Gilts 105.5 18.4% Corporate bonds 28.8 5.0% 124.0 21.7% Property 40.6 7.1% Diversified growth funds 127.4 22.1% 94.0 16.4% Insurance contracts 280.7 48.6% 40.1 7.0% Other assets 3.0 0.5% 0.8 0.2% 577.6 100.0% 572.4 100.0% The expected rates of return on individual categories of scheme assets are determined by reference to relevant indices published by, for example, the London Stock Exchange.
The overall expected rate of return is calculated by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the schemes investment portfolios.
The scheme assets do not include any of the Groups own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group.
The history of the scheme for the current and previous four periods is as follows: m 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Present value of defined benefit obligations 664.9 645.8 599.9 592.8 561.3 Fair value of scheme assets 577.6 572.4 528.7 510.8 446.1 Net liability 87.3 73.4 71.2 82.0 115.2 Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities 12.8 1.8 1.3 1.8 Experience adjustments on scheme assets 16.2 12.8 40.3 24.1 13.8 Other retirement benefit schemes A number of the Groups subsidiaries based in France contribute to a retirement indemnity scheme.
The liabilities of the scheme were valued by an independent actuary as at 31 December 2012 at EUR4.3m and are recorded in these financial statements at 3.6m 2012: 3.5m.
These liabilities are included in other liabilities in note 20.
Retirement obligations relating to a subsidiary based in Germany have gross obligations of EUR3.1m 2012: EUR2.2m.
These obligations are covered by an insurance policy and therefore there is no net liability.
The actuarial loss for these schemes in the year to 31 December 2013, recognised in OCI, was nil 2012: 0.5m.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 111 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 25.
Financial risk management The Groups multinational operations and debt financing expose it to a variety of financial risks which include the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, liquidity risk and credit risk.
The Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit the adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group by using foreign currency financial instruments, debt and other instruments, including interest rate swaps.
Other derivative financial instruments may be used from time to time to manage other exposures such as inflation risks.
The financial risk management policies agreed by the Board have not changed during the year and are summarised below.
The Group does not trade in financial instruments.
Foreign currency risk The Group is based in the UK, reports in sterling and has significant investment in overseas operations in the USA, Australia and other European countries.
As a result, the Groups balance sheet can be affected by movements in these countries exchange rates.
The Groups policy is to reduce, or eliminate where practical, both structural and transactional foreign exchange risk and, consequently, the net foreign exchange losses included in the income statement amounted to 3.2m 2012: 3.6m.
All currency exposures are reviewed regularly and all significant foreign exchange transactions are approved by Cobham plc management.
The Group has the following exposure to foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities in its Balance Sheet, translated into sterling at the relevant year-end exchange rates: 2013 2012 Monetary Monetary Monetary Monetary m assets liabilities assets liabilities US dollars 188.8 584.9 214.2 620.3 Euros 86.8 109.3 87.8 49.7 Australian dollars 56.2 54.2 65.9 72.8 Danish kroner 18.1 90.7 14.0 92.6 Other currencies 24.5 8.3 17.5 6.5 374.4 847.4 399.4 841.9 Sterling denominated monetary assets and liabilities 166.2 117.9 192.8 74.8 540.6 965.3 592.2 916.7 Foreign currency borrowings are used to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange differences arising from the Groups overseas net assets.
The Group typically borrows in the currency of the acquisition and uses intercompany debt to create a natural economic hedge.
Monetary liabilities in the table above include US dollar borrowings of 482.4m 2012: 484.2m and Danish kroner borrowings of 75.9m 2012: 74.0m which match exposures arising from currency denominated net assets.
Foreign currency contracts are also used to manage exposure to currency risks.
On consolidation, the net assets of overseas subsidiaries which include the monetary assets and liabilities shown in the tables above are translated at closing exchange rates and exchange differences arising are accounted for in other comprehensive income and in the translation reserve note 27.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk in the income statement where individual subsidiaries hold non-functional currency monetary assets and liabilities and when an operating unit makes sales and purchases in currencies other than its own functional currency.
The Group undertakes a formal process to actively manage and mitigate this exposure through a combination of matching non-functional currency revenues and costs, matching non-functional currency monetary assets and liabilities and through the use of forward contracts.
112 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements The sterling US dollar exchange rate is the most important as far as the Group is concerned, particularly given the level of US dollars which non-US based subsidiaries expect to receive from their normal business activities, and the proportion of the Group based in the USA.
The Group has the following forward foreign currency contracts outstanding for net sales of US dollars: Average US$: US$m amount exchange rate 2013 2012 2013 2012 Expiring within one year 124.1 138.7 1.59 1.59 Expiring within one to two years 38.0 76.0 1.58 1.61 Expiring after two years 71.6 17.9 1.56 1.58 Contracts outstanding at 31 December 233.7 232.6 1.58 1.60 The latest expiry date of forward foreign currency contracts for sales of US dollars is July 2022 and it is the Groups current belief that the net dollar receipts by its subsidiaries will exceed the level of the outstanding commitment.
The following table details the Groups sensitivity to a weakening in sterling against the respective foreign currencies, with a negative number indicating a reduction in profit after taxation or total equity.
The sensitivities below represent managements assessment of the possible changes in foreign exchange rates, based on experience over the previous five years.
2013 2012 m Sensitivity Profit or loss Total equity Sensitivity Profit or loss Total equity US dollars 11% 13.8 13.8 16% 21.0 21.0 Euros 9% 3.3 3.3 13% 10.3 10.3 This sensitivity analysis has been based on the assumption that the change is effective throughout the financial year and that all other variables, including interest rates, remain constant.
It includes the effect of derivative financial instruments.
In order to provide comparable information, sensitivity has also been assessed based on a 10% weakening in sterling against the respective foreign currency, as follows: 2013 2012 m Sensitivity Profit or loss Total equity Sensitivity Profit or loss Total equity US dollars 10% 12.4 12.4 10% 12.2 12.2 Euros 10% 3.7 3.7 10% 7.7 7.7 Interest rate risk The Group has long and short-term borrowings at both fixed and floating rates of interest.
In managing its borrowing costs, the Group monitors its exposure to movements in interest rates, having regard to prevailing market conditions and, where necessary, uses interest rate swaps to manage the interest rate risk.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 113 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued As noted above, borrowings are held in various currencies and can be analysed between fixed and floating rates as follows: m 2013 2012 Fixed rates Senior notes 216.7 220.9 Bank loans 45.3 262.0 220.9 Floating rates Bank loans and overdrafts 298.1 306.3 Senior notes 93.6 95.3 Loan notes, finance leases and other borrowings 0.4 1.6 392.1 403.2 Total borrowings 654.1 624.1 All floating rate borrowings have regular repricing dates.
Floating to fixed interest rate swaps, designated as cash flow hedges, have been used to mitigate the interest rate exposure arising on selected floating rate debt.
Interest rate swaps outstanding at the year-end are as follows: Period of swap contract 2013 2012 Currency Currency Hedged item Fixed rate from to value m value m Australian dollar loans 6.30% May 2006 January 2020 AUS$58.0m 31.3 AUS$74.4m 42.3 6.40% January 2007 January 2020 AUS$10.8m 5.8 AUS$14.3m 8.0 37.1 50.3 Interest rate swaps which expired during the year to 31 December 2013 were previously used to fix the interest rates on US dollar floating rate loans.
At 31 December 2012, these swaps had a total notional currency value of US$295.0m 181.5m and fixed interest rates at between 3.22% and 3.61%.
The Group does not currently hold any fair value hedging instruments such as fixed to floating interest rate swaps.
Surplus funds are placed on short-term fixed rate deposit and as such also give rise to interest rate exposure.
There was no material sensitivity to changes in interest rates at the year-end.
Liquidity risk The Groups policy on managing liquidity risk throughout the year has been to maintain a mix of short, medium and long term borrowings with lenders.
Overdraft and revolving credit facilities provide short term flexibility whilst the revolving credit facilities provide longer term committed funding.
As shown in note 19, undrawn committed borrowing facilities of 37.7m were available to the Group at 31 December 2013 2012: 89.3m in various currencies.
At an operating level, the Group has a positive cash flow from operating activities and where practical the funds generated by business units are managed on a regional basis.
In the UK and US, most business units utilise local bank facilities within a UK or US group arrangement.
This allows a balance to be maintained between continuity of funding, security and flexibility.
The table below summarises the remaining contractual maturity for the Groups borrowings and other financial liabilities, including derivative financial liabilities.
The amounts shown are the contractual undiscounted cash flows which include interest, analysed by contractual maturity.
The difference between the contractual cash flows and the carrying amount of these liabilities reflects the effects of interest not included in the carrying amount and discounting applied in assessing fair value.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 115 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Credit risk The Groups principal financial assets are bank balances, cash and trade and other receivables and there are no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The Group has a conservative policy towards the credit risk related to liquid funds and derivative financial instruments with balances currently spread across a range of reputable financial institutions, such as banks which have satisfactory credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
The levels of credit risk are monitored through the Groups ongoing risk management processes, which include a regular review of the banks credit ratings.
Risk in this area is limited further by setting a maximum level for deposits with any one counterparty.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups customer base being large and unrelated.
Customers are typically large global companies or government agencies with long term trading relationships.
The Group also has in place procedures that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales are made.
Existing customer accounts are monitored on an ongoing basis and appropriate action is taken where necessary to minimise any credit risk.
The Directors therefore believe there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of normal provision for impaired receivables shown in note 17.
Group management monitor the ageing of receivables which are more than one month overdue and debtor days on a regular basis.
At 31 December 2013, 8.2% 2012: 6.4% of gross trade receivables were overdue by one month or more.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December 2013 is the fair value of each class of receivable as disclosed in note 17. Letters of credit are the only collateral held as security against trade receivables.
These are obtained in a limited number of cases in accordance with good business practice and secure around 2.3m of receivables.
Bank term balances totalling 6.4m 2012: 7.5m have been pledged against the residual value of leased assets as described in note 16.
In the UK and the USA, the Group has master netting arrangements in respect of bank balances.
In the normal course of business, these bank accounts are settled on a net basis within each currency and as such are presented net in the Balance Sheet as shown in note 16.
In the event of an automatic enforcement event, the bank balances are automatically set off against each other to achieve a net position.
Derivatives can also be offset by counterparties in the event of a default: net amounts that result on this basis are shown in note 16.
Inflation risk The Groups exposure to inflation is considered to be a general business risk which is mitigated through normal commercial activity.
The Group has one swap contract which was designed to manage the inherent inflation risk in a specific operational contract.
The fair value of this swap contract is included in derivative financial instruments shown in note 23.
Capital risk management Group policy is to maintain a strong capital base, defined as total equity, excluding non-controlling interests, totalling 1,043.4m at 31 December 2013 2012: 1,053.8m, so as to maintain stakeholder confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
Within this overall policy, the Group seeks to maintain an appropriate finance structure through a mixture of debt and retained earnings.
Funding needs are reviewed periodically and also each time a significant acquisition or business divestment is made.
A number of factors are considered which include the net debt EBITDA ratio, future funding needs usually potential acquisitions and proposed dividend levels.
Group banking arrangements are also considered: these include financial covenants which are based on adjusted IFRS results as outlined on page 25.
This policy has been reviewed by the Board on a regular basis during the year and, given the current economic climate, continues to be considered appropriate.
116 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements 26.
Share capital Number m of shares 2013 2012 Authorised Ordinary Shares of par value 2.5 pence 1,479,200,000 37.0 37.0 6% second cumulative Preference Shares of 1 20,000 Issued and fully paid Ordinary Shares of par value 2.5 pence 1,154,527,625 28.9 28.9 As at 31 December 2013, 85,680,533 2012: 87,699,405 Ordinary Shares were held in treasury including 9,728,809 2012: 11,747,681 shares held in the Cobham Employee Benefit Trust.
At 31 December 2013, the market value of treasury shares was 235.2m 2012: 193.6m, including shares with a market value of 26.7m 2012: 25.9m held by the Cobham Employee Benefit Trust.
During the year ended 31 December 2013, treasury shares were used to satisfy awards and options under the Groups PSP, BCP, ESOS and ShareSave schemes.
The net cost of treasury shares after receipts from option exercises is deducted from retained earnings and total equity.
Further details of the share capital of Cobham plc can be found in the Directors Report on page 64.
Other reserves Translation Share options Total other m Note reserve Hedge reserve reserve reserves At 1 January 2012 65.1 5.7 24.4 83.8 Foreign exchange differences on translation of overseas operations 19.2 19.2 Reclassification of foreign exchange on divestment of overseas operation 4.8 4.8 Movements on cash flow hedges 23 0.4 3.5 3.1 Reclassification of fair value of cash flow hedges to income statement 7.2 7.2 Release of hedge reserve 2.8 2.8 Transfer of hedge reserve to retained earnings 3.7 3.7 Transfer of translation reserve on settlement of cash flow hedge contracts 0.3 0.3 Transfer of share options reserve on exercise 2.8 2.8 Share based payments recognised in reserves 28 6.8 6.8 Dividend equivalents paid on vesting of PSP and BCP awards 0.1 0.1 Tax effects 0.1 3.1 0.5 2.7 At 1 January 2013 41.7 6.3 28.8 64.2 Foreign exchange differences on translation of overseas operations 11.1 11.1 Movements on cash flow hedges 23 0.6 0.6 Reclassification of fair value of cash flow hedges to income statement 4.5 4.5 Release of hedge reserve 1.5 1.5 Transfer of translation reserve on settlement of cash flow hedge contracts 1.5 1.5 Transfer of share options reserve on exercise 4.2 4.2 Share based payments recognised in reserves 28 1.7 1.7 Tax effects 0.5 0.7 2.6 1.4 At 31 December 2013 32.2 2.5 25.5 55.2 The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising on the results and financial position of subsidiaries whose functional currencies differ from the Groups reporting currency.
Foreign exchange movements arising on interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges are also included here and, following the settlement of the financial instrument, any balances remaining are transferred to retained earnings.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 117 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued The hedge reserve reflects movements in fair values on cash flow hedging derivatives as detailed in notes 23 and 25.
The share options reserve includes the cost of share options as assessed under IFRS 2 together with deferred tax provided under IAS 12 relating to share based payments, where the calculated future tax benefit is in excess of the amount charged to date under IFRS 2.
The appropriate proportion of the share options reserve is transferred to retained earnings following exercise.
Share based payments The total amount included in the income statement arising from the Groups equity settled share based payment schemes is as follows: m 2013 2012 PSP 4.7 4.5 Other schemes 1.2 2.3 Release of amounts charged in previous years 7.6 1.7 6.8 During the year ended 31 December 2013, 7.6m which has been charged to the Income Statement in previous years has been released, reflecting actual vesting experience of vested awards and a reassessment of the expected future vesting of awards which are unvested at the year-end, based on non-market related performance conditions.
The Group operates the following equity settled share based payment schemes: The PSP scheme is offered to senior executives across the Group and allows for annual grants of conditional shares with vesting conditions based on the Groups financial performance, taking into account both market based conditions such as TSR growth and non-market based measures such as EPS growth or cash conversion respectively.
The scheme includes buy-out awards granted in 2012 and 2013 to the Groups CEO and CFO.
Until 2012, share options were also awarded to senior executives under the ESOS scheme, with exercise conditional upon the Groups underlying EPS growth over a three year period.
Awards have been made in 2013 to US employees under the time-only section of the ESOS.
This allows for options to be granted with 25% vesting on each annual anniversary, conditional only on continued employment within the Group.
The Bonus Co-investment Plan BCP is offered to a small number of senior executives and provides matching shares where bonus awards are invested in shares.
Finally the Group operates a ShareSave scheme which is open to all UK employees.
The fair values of ESOS and ShareSave awards are significantly lower than for PSP and BSP awards due to the effect of the exercise price which is set based upon the market value of the Groups Ordinary Shares around the date of grant.
Further details of all the schemes can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 50 and 51.
The number of options outstanding at 31 December are as follows: Number of awards thousands of shares 2013 2012 PSP 8,544 7,794 ESOS 10,161 17,698 BCP 190 350 ShareSave 5,447 6,498 At 31 December 24,342 32,340 118 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements Details of movements in the awards under the PSP scheme are as follows: Number of awards thousands of shares 2013 2012 At 1 January 7,794 6,838 Awards granted 3,531 3,076 Awards forfeited or cancelled 2,315 1,629 Exercised 466 490 Expired 1 At 31 December 8,544 7,794 Weighted average remaining contractual life of PSP awards outstanding 1.38 years 1.28 years Number of PSP awards exercisable at 31 December thousands 669 212 4 April, 26 March, Effective date of grant for awards made in the year 19 August 14 September Average fair value at date of grant 2.223 1.735 The average fair values above were calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model modified by a Monte Carlo simulation to determine the likely impact of market related performance conditions.
The inputs into the models were as follows: 2013 2012 Weighted average share price 2.472 2.250 Weighted average exercise price nil nil Expected volatility 26% 31% Expected life 2.96 years 2.79 years Expected employee cancellation rate 1.8% 2.2% Risk free rate 0.3% 1.3% Expected volatility was determined through the assessment of the historical volatility over a period consistent with the expected life of the award.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability and behavioural considerations.
The expected employee cancellation rate is based on an assessment of historic rates of voluntary cancellations of contracts by employees.
Most participants of the PSP scheme receive the benefit of dividend payments and therefore dividend yields are not taken into consideration in the valuation model.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 119 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 29. Business combinations Businesses acquired during the year The purchase of the entire share capital of Avenue 64 Limited, the parent company of the Axell Wireless group Axell, was completed on 9 May 2013.
On a debt and cash free basis, total consideration was 85m including conditional cash consideration of up to 25m payable during 2014 and 2015, contingent on future performance.
Axell is a leading global provider of Distributed Antenna Systems and wireless solutions for the public safety and cellular markets, with a specific focus on communication systems for buildings and critical infrastructure applications.
Axell brings technology that is complementary to the Groups existing Antenna Systems and Tactical Communications and Surveillance businesses and its acquisition is in line with the Groups strategic objectives.
The company has approximately 250 employees worldwide and is headquartered in Chesham, UK.
It is reported through the Antenna Systems Strategic Business Unit, within the Aerospace and Security Division.
On 15 July 2013 it was announced that an agreement was reached to acquire the 50% shareholding that the Group did not already own in FB Heliservices Limited, FB Leasing Limited and FBS Limited together FBH, from its long standing joint venture partner, Bristow Helicopters Limited Bristow.
The transaction comprised cash consideration of 74m payable on completion, together with the assumption of Bristows share of FBHs net debt.
FBH specialises in defence helicopter training in the UK and elsewhere, including a contract with the Ministry of Defence to train helicopter crews for all branches of the armed forces, as well as the provision of search and rescue, logistics and emergency medical services for government customers globally.
In accordance with IFRS 3, the revaluation gains on previously held equity interests in FBH that arise on gaining full control of the company have been recognised in the income statement.
This business is now part of Aviation Services.
Fair value information Components of the fair value of the business combinations during the year are as follows: m Axell FBH Total Cash consideration 55.5 74.2 129.7 Revaluation gains arising on equity interests on transfer of control 62.1 62.1 Investment in joint venture on date of transfer 12.2 12.2 Contingent consideration 22.1 22.1 Total fair value at date control achieved 77.6 148.5 226.1 Revaluation gains arising on equity interests on transfer of control are excluded from underlying profits as shown in note 3.
Contingent consideration has been provided at fair value which is considered to be the discounted maximum payable under the agreement.
Further details can be found in note 20.
A summary of the fair values of the net assets acquired are as follows: m Axell FBH Total Non-current assets 48.0 161.5 209.5 Current assets 22.5 23.8 46.3 Current liabilities 15.9 72.2 88.1 Non-current liabilities 12.0 16.5 28.5 Net assets acquired 42.6 96.6 139.2 Goodwill 35.0 51.9 86.9 Total value of business acquired 77.6 148.5 226.1 The fair values of net assets acquired in respect of FBH are provisional and subject to potential adjustment.
120 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements All intangible assets were recognised at their respective fair values.
The residual excess of the total cost over the fair value of the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill in the financial statements.
Goodwill represents the premium paid in anticipation of future economic benefits from assets that are not capable of being separately identified and separately recognised, such as the value of the workforce.
Goodwill is not anticipated to be deductible for tax purposes.
The fair values of acquired receivables included in current assets in the table above are 6.0m for Axell and 12.2m for FBH.
These relate to trade and other receivables and are considered to be recoverable in full.
Current liabilities of FBH on acquisition included 43.2m payable to Cobham.
Results of business combinations Third party revenue of Axell and FBH, since acquisition, was 34.9m and 42.3m respectively.
The result after tax since the date of acquisition was 6.0m loss and 3.7m loss.
These include the impacts of amortisation of the intangible assets which are recognised as a result of the business combination and writing off the pre-acquisition profit element of inventory written up on acquisition.
Operating profit was 6.2m for Axell and 8.5m for FBH.
If these business combinations had taken effect on 1 January 2013, it is estimated that Group total revenues would have been 1,842.7m and profit after tax 108.0m.
This information is not necessarily indicative of the results had the operations been acquired at the start of the period, nor of future results of the combined operations.
The net cash flows resulting from business combinations are as follows: m Total Cash consideration paid for the business combinations completed in the year 130.1 Net debt acquired with the business combinations completed in the year 4.1 126.0 Costs of 1.7m were incurred in relation to business combinations.
These costs are recognised within administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement and included within other M&A related costs excluded from underlying profit as shown in note 3.
Operating lease arrangements At the balance sheet date the Group had outstanding commitments for minimum lease payments due under non-cancellable operating leases as follows: m 2013 2012 Within one year 26.0 26.1 Between one and two years 23.4 23.1 Between two and three years 21.0 21.6 Between three and four years 18.8 18.7 Between four and five years 16.3 17.3 After five years 63.4 88.0 168.9 194.8 Operating lease payments during the year totalled 30.4m 2012: 31.1m including rental costs of 7.1m 2012: 8.4m relating to operational aircraft used in its service businesses: the remainder primarily relates to the rental of office and operating facilities.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 121 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 31.
Contingent liabilities and commitments At 31 December 2013, the Company and the Group had contingent liabilities in respect of bank and contractual performance guarantees and other matters arising in the ordinary course of business.
Where it is expected that a material liability will arise in respect of these matters, appropriate provision is made within the Group Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company and various of its subsidiaries are, from time to time, parties to various legal proceedings and claims.
Management do not anticipate that the outcome of these, either individually or in aggregate, would have a material adverse effect upon the Groups financial position as at 31 December 2013.
As notified in prior years, the Group has previously identified one, more significant, contractual breach dating back some years.
The contract was in respect of goods provided into a geographic market which represents only a small amount of revenue for the Group.
The circumstances surrounding this remain under review and neither the outcome nor the timing of resolution can be estimated.
No further information is disclosed as it could be prejudicial.
The nature of much of the contracting work done by the Group means that there are reasonably frequent contractual issues, variations and renegotiations that arise in the ordinary course of business, whose resolution is uncertain and could materially impact the Groups future reported earnings.
In particular, on fixed price development contracts, where there is currently a high level of activity, costs incurred and anticipated can significantly exceed amounts estimated at inception as a result of material enhancements to the specifications originally agreed under the contracts.
Judgement is therefore required as regards the outcome of negotiations and the amounts recoverable under these contracts.
The Directors take account of the advice of experts in making these judgements and believe that the outcome of negotiations will result in an appropriate recovery of costs.
On 24 February 2014 the Group voluntarily contacted the United States Department of Justice DoJ to inform it that Cobham had undertaken an initial internal investigation into potentially irregular sales practices concerning sales to Asia of certain commercial, non-classified products manufactured by TracStar Systems Inc. TracStar.
TracStar is based in Orlando, Florida and is part of the groups SATCOM business.
The business manufactures a range of inertial stabilisation and satellite tracking systems used by government and commercial customers globally for land based applications.
Its total worldwide revenue in 2013 was under 15m, representing less than 1% of Group revenue.
Cobham will continue to co-operate with the DoJ in relation to this matter however, the circumstances are under review and neither the outcome nor the timescale for resolution can be estimated at present.
At 31 December 2013, the Group had commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment of 13.6m 2012: 17.2m.
Related party transactions m 2013 2012 Transactions between Group entities and joint ventures and associates during the year Sales of goods 0.4 0.3 Purchases of goods 0.3 0.4 Dividends received from joint ventures 3.7 7.5 Loan advanced to joint venture 40.0 Loan repayments and interest received from joint ventures 3.0 3.1 Amounts owed by joint ventures at the year-end 45.4 Sales of goods to related parties were made at the Groups usual list prices for sales to non-related parties.
The amounts owed are unsecured, will be settled in cash and are included in other receivables in note 17.
No guarantees have been given to, or received from, related parties.
No expense has been recognised in the period for bad or doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.
Compensation of key management personnel Details of the compensation of key management personnel can be found in note 5.
The Directors of Cobham plc had no material transactions with the Company during the year, other than as a result of service agreements.
Details of Directors remuneration are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 63.
122 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements 33.
Events after the balance sheet date In February 2014, a loan agreement was signed for AUS$90m expiring in October 2018.
Subsidiaries All subsidiary undertakings have been included in the Group consolidation.
The undertakings held at 31 December 2013 which, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affected the results for the year or the net assets of the Group were: Operating Place of incorporation segment Strategic Business Unit and principal activities Name of undertaking or registration and operation Cobham Aerospace and Security Cobham Aerospace Communications Design and manufacture of navigation, communication Air Prcision SAS France and airborne networking products and systems Chelton Avionics, Inc USA for commercial, business, homeland security and Chelton Telecom and Microwave SAS France military aircraft.
TEAM SA France Cobham Antenna Systems Design and manufacture of communication systems Axell Wireless Limited England and navigation antennas that enable people and Chelton Limited England systems to communicate on land, in the air and at sea.
Chelton, Inc USA Cobham Advanced Composites Limited England Cobham Composite Products Inc USA Cobham CTS Limited England Continental Microwave & Tool Co, Inc USA Trivec-Avant Corporation USA Cobham SATCOM Development, manufacture, sales and support Omnipless Manufacturing Pty Limited South Africa of satellite and radio communication equipment Sea Tel, Inc USA and earth stations for maritime based, land based Denmark and aeronautical applications.
Thrane & Thrane A S Cobham Tactical Communications and Surveillance Provision of specialist communications, security and Cobham Defence Communications Limited England surveillance products including integrated systems Cobham TCS Limited England and solutions.
DTC Communications, Inc USA Cobham Defence Systems Cobham Defence Electronics Design and manufacture of antenna systems Cobham Electronic Systems Inc USA and radomes, ground data link terminals, active REMEC Defense & Space, Inc USA microwave components, assemblies and subsystems for the aerospace and defence industries.
Sensor & Antenna Systems, Lansdale, Inc USA www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 123 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Operating Place of incorporation segment Strategic Business Unit and principal activities Name of undertaking or registration and operation Cobham Mission Systems Cobham Life Support Life support, safety and personal survival equipment Carleton Life Support Systems, Inc USA systems including oxygen systems for aviators and Carleton Technologies, Inc USA astronauts, crew restraints and flotation gear along with fuel tank inerting capabilities.
Cobham Mission Equipment Design, development and manufacture of critical Carleton Life Support Systems, Inc USA technology for air-to-air refuelling, weapons carriage Carleton Technologies, Inc USA and release systems and unmanned explosive ordnance robot applications for both military Flight Refuelling Limited England and homeland security markets.
Telerob Gesellschaft fr Germany  mbH Cobham Aviation Services Cobham Aviation Services Delivers specialist aviation services for commercial, FR Aviation Limited England government and defence customers worldwide FB Heliservices Limited England through airborne special mission operations, outsourced commercial aviation, military training, Jet Systems Pty Limited Australia aircraft engineering, flight inspection and air National Jet Express Pty Limited Australia traffic services.
National Jet Systems Pty Limited Australia Surveillance Australia Pty Limited Australia Carleton Life Support Systems, Inc and Carleton Technologies, Inc both operate across the Cobham Life Support and Cobham Mission Equipment SBUs.
Issued shares in Flight Refuelling Limited are held by Cobham plc.
Otherwise shares are held by, or by a nominee for, a subsidiary of Cobham plc.
The Group owns 100% of the share capital of all subsidiaries with the exception of TEAM SA 98.7% owned.
A full list of subsidiary companies is annexed to the Companys annual return to the Registrar of Companies.
124 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
