InveSTor reSoUrce Glossary Adjusted earnings per share EPS Joint venture and capital gains from the property rental business are exempt from tax but Earnings per share based on revenue profit after related tax.
An entity in which the Group holds an interest and is jointly controlled by the the REIT is required to distribute at least 90% of those profits to shareholders.
Group and one or more partners under a contractual arrangement.
Decisions Corporation tax is payable on non-qualifying activities in the normal way.
Adjusted net asset value NAV per share on financial and operating policies essential to the operation, performance and NAV per share adjusted to remove the effect of the fide-recognition of the 2004 Rental value change financial position of the venture require each partners consent.
bond exchange and cumulative fair value movements on interest-rate swaps Increase or decrease in the current rental value, as determined by the Groups and similar instruments.
Lease incentives external valuers, over the reporting period on a like-for-like basis.
Any incentive offered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
Typically the incentive Adjusted net debt Rental income will be an initial rent-free period, or a cash contribution to fit-out or similar Net debt excluding cumulative fair value movements on interest-rate swaps, Rental income is as reported in the income statement, on an accruals basis, and costs.
For accounting purposes the value of the incentive is spread over the the adjustment arising from the fide-recognition of the bond exchange and adjusted for the spreading of lease incentives over the term certain of the lease non-cancellable life of the lease.
amounts payable under finance leases.
It generally includes the net debt of in accordance with SIC 15.
It is stated gross, prior to the deduction of ground subsidiaries and joint ventures on a proportionate basis.
LIBOR rents and without deduction for operational outgoings on car park and The London Interbank Offered Rate, the interest rate charged by one bank to commercialisation activities.
Average unexpired lease term another for lending money, often used as a reference rate in bank facilities.
The weighted average of the unexpired term of all leases other than short-term Retail warehouse park 2 lettings such as car parks and advertising hoardings, temporary lettings of less Like-for-like portfolio A scheme of three or more retail warehouse units aggregating over 5,000m than one year, residential leases and long ground leases.
The like-for-like portfolio includes all properties which have been in the with shared parking.
portfolio since 1 April 2011, but excluding those which are acquired, sold or Book value Return on average capital employed included in the development pipeline at any time since that date.
The amount at which assets and liabilities are reported in the financial Group profit before interest, plus joint venture profit before interest, divided statements.
Like-for-like managed properties by the average capital employed defined as shareholders funds plus adjusted Properties in the like-for-like portfolio other than those in our joint ventures net debt.
BREEAM which we do not manage operationally.
Building Research Establishments Environmental Assessment Method.
Return on average equity Loan-to-value LTV Group profit before tax plus joint venture tax divided by the average equity Combined portfolio Group LTV is the ratio of adjusted net debt, including subsidiaries and joint shareholders funds.
The combined portfolio comprises the investment properties of the Groups ventures, to the sum of the market value of investment properties and the book subsidiaries, on a proportionately consolidated basis when not wholly owned, Revenue profit value of trading properties of the Group, its subsidiaries and joint ventures, all together with our share of investment properties held in our joint ventures.
Profit before tax, excluding profits on the sale of non-current assets and on a proportionate basis, expressed as a percentage.
For the Security Group, Unless stated otherwise, references are to the combined portfolio when the trading properties, profits on long-term development contracts, valuation LTV is the ratio of net debt lent to the Security Group divided by the value of investment property business is discussed.
movements, fair value movements on interest-rate swaps and similar secured assets.
instruments used for hedging purposes, the adjustment to interest payable Completed developments Market value resulting from the amortisation of the bond exchange fide-recognition, debt Completed developments consist of those properties previously included in the Market value is determined by the Groups external valuers, in accordance with restructuring charges and any items of an unusual nature.
development programme, which have been transferred from the development the RICS Valuation Standards, as an opinion of the estimated amount for which programme since 1 April 2011.
Reversionary or under-rented a property should exchange on the date of valuation between a willing buyer Space where the passing rent is below the ERV.
Development pipeline and a willing seller in an arms-length transaction after proper marketing.
The development programme together with proposed developments.
Reversionary yield Mark-to-market adjustment The anticipated yield to which the initial yield will rise or fall once the rent Development programme An accounting adjustment to change the book value of an asset or liability to its reaches the ERV.
The development programme consists of committed developments Board market value.
approved projects with the building contract let, authorised developments Scrip dividend Net asset value NAV per share Board approved, projects under construction and developments which have Land Securities offers its shareholders the opportunity to receive dividends Equity attributable to owners of the Parent divided by the number of ordinary reached practical completion within the last two years but are not yet 95% let.
in the form of shares instead of cash.
This is known as a scrip dividend.
shares in issue at the period end.
Diluted figures Security Group Net initial yield Reported results adjusted to include the effects of potentially dilutive shares Security Group is the principal funding vehicle for Land Securities and Net initial yield is a calculation by the Groups external valuers of the yield that issuable under employee share schemes.
properties held in the Security Group are mortgaged for the benefit of lenders.
would be received by a purchaser, based on the Estimated Net Rental Income It has the flexibility to raise a variety of different forms of finance.
Earnings per share EPS expressed as a percentage of the acquisition cost, being the market value plus Profit after taxation attributable to owners of the Parent divided by the assumed usual purchasers costs at the reporting date.
The calculation is in line Temporary lettings weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
Lettings for a period of one year or less.
These are included within voids.
Estimated Net Rental Income is the passing cash rent less ground rent at EPRA Topped-up net initial yield the balance sheet date, estimated non-recoverable outgoings and void costs European Public Real Estate Association.
Topped-up net initial yield is a calculation by the Groups external valuers.
including service charges, insurance costs and void rates.
It is calculated by making an adjustment to net initial yield in respect of the EPRA net initial yield Outline planning consent annualised cash rent foregone through unexpired rent-free periods and other EPRA net initial yield is defined within EPRAs Best Practice Recommendations This gives consent in principle for a development, and covers matters such as use lease incentives.
The calculation is consistent with EPRA guidance.
as the annualised rental income based on the cash rents passing at the balance and building mass.
Full details of the development scheme must be provided in sheet date, less non-recoverable property operating expenses, divided by the Total business return an application for reserved matters approval, including detailed layout, scale, gross market value of the property.
It is consistent with the net initial yield Dividend paid per share, plus the change in adjusted diluted net asset value per appearance, access and landscaping, before a project can proceed.
An outline calculated by the Groups external valuers.
share, divided by the adjusted diluted net asset value per share at the beginning planning permission will lapse if the submission of reserved matters have not of the year.
Equivalent yield been made within three years, or if it has not been implemented within three Calculated by the Groups external valuers, equivalent yield is the internal rate years or within two years of the final approval of reserved matters, unless Total cost ratio of return from an investment property, based on the gross outlays for the otherwise expressly stated within conditions attached to the permission itself or, Total cost ratio represents all costs included within revenue profit, other than purchase of a property including purchase costs, reflecting reversions to for any permissions granted on or before 1 October 2009, a successful application rents payable and financing costs, expressed as a percentage of gross rental current market rent and such items as voids and non-recoverable expenditure has been made to extend the time within which reserved matters application income before rents payable.
but ignoring future changes in capital value.
The calculation assumes rent is can be submitted, or the overall limit for commencement of development.
Total development cost TDC received annually in arrears.
Over-rented Total development cost refers to the book value of the land at the ERV Gross estimated rental value Space where the passing rent is above the ERV.
commencement of the project, the estimated capital expenditure required to The estimated market rental value of lettable space as determined biannually develop the scheme from the start of the financial year in which the property Passing cash rent by the Groups external valuers.
is added to our development programme, together with capitalised interest.
The estimated annual rent receivable as at the reporting date which includes Fair value movement estimates of turnover rent and estimates of rent to be agreed in respect of Total property return An accounting adjustment to change the book value of an asset or liability to its outstanding rent review or lease renewal negotiations.
Passing cash rent may be Valuation movement, profit loss on property sales and net rental income in market value.
more or less than the ERV see over-rented, reversionary and ERV.
Passing cash respect of investment properties expressed as a percentage of opening book rent excludes annual rent receivable from units in administration save to the value, together with the time weighted value for capital expenditure incurred Finance lease extent that rents are expected to be received.
Void units and units that are in a during the current year, on the combined property portfolio.
A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership from rent-free period at the reporting date are deemed to have no passing cash rent.
Total Shareholder Return TSR Although temporary lets of less than 12 months are treated as void, income The growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period, assuming that Gearing from temporary lets is included in passing cash rents.
dividends are reinvested to purchase additional units of the stock.
Total borrowings, including bank overdrafts, less short-term deposits, Pre-let corporate bonds and cash, at book value, plus cumulative fair value movements Trading properties A lease signed with an occupier prior to completion of a development.
on financial derivatives as a percentage of total equity.
For adjusted gearing, see Properties held for trading purposes and shown as current assets in the note 32 in the financial statements.
Pre-development properties are those properties within the like-for-like Gross market value Turnover rent portfolio which are being managed to align vacant possession within a three Market value plus assumed usual purchasers costs at the reporting date.
Rental income which is related to an occupiers turnover.
year horizon with a view to redevelopment.
Head lease Voids Property income distribution PID A lease under which the Group holds an investment property.
Voids are expressed as a percentage of ERV and represent all unlet space, A PID is a distribution by a REIT to its shareholders paid out of qualifying profits.
including voids where refurbishment work is being carried out and voids in Interest Cover Ratio ICR A REIT is required to distribute at least 90% of its qualifying profits as a PID to respect of pre-development properties.
Temporary lettings for a period of one A calculation of a companys ability to meet its interest payments on its shareholders.
year or less are also treated as voids.
It is calculated using revenue profit before interest, divided by Proposed developments net interest excluding the mark-to-market movement on interest-rate swaps, Weighted average cost of capital WACC Proposed developments are properties which have not yet received final Board bond exchange fide-recognition, capitalised interest and interest on the pension Weighted average cost of debt and notional cost of equity, used as a benchmark approval or are still subject to main planning conditions being satisfied, but scheme assets and liabilities.
The calculation excludes joint ventures.
which are more likely to proceed than not.
Interest-rate swap Yield shift Qualifying activities Qualifying assets A financial instrument where two parties agree to exchange an interest rate A movement negative or positive in the equivalent yield of a property asset.
The ownership activity of property assets which is held to earn rental income obligation for a predetermined amount of time.
These are generally used by the and qualifies for tax-exempt treatment income and capital gains under UK Zone A Group to convert floating-rate debt or investments to fixed rates.
A means of analysing and comparing the rental value of retail space by dividing Investment portfolio it into zones parallel with the main frontage.
The most valuable zone, Zone A, is Real Estate Investment Trust REIT The investment portfolio comprises the investment properties of the Groups at the front of the unit.
Each successive zone is valued at half the rate of the zone A REIT must be a publicly quoted company with at least three-quarters of its subsidiaries, on a proportionately consolidated basis where not wholly owned.
profits and assets derived from a qualifying property rental business.
Income 164 Land Securities Annual Report 2013 Land Securities Group pLC fuRThER INfORmATION Forward-looking statements Copyright and trade mark notices KEy REAds WIThIN All rights reserved.
This Annual Report and the Land Securities website may contain certain forward-looking Copyright 2013 Land Securities Group pLC.
statements with respect to Land Securities Group pLC and the Groups financial condition, ThIs REPORT results of operations and business, and certain of Land Securities Group pLCs and the Land Securities, LandSecurities stylised, Groups plans, strategy, objectives, goals and expectations with respect to these items the Cornerstones logo and Making property and the economies and markets in which Land Securities operates.
Work, are trade marks of Land Securities Forward-looking statements are sometimes, but not always, identified by their use of Group pLC.
a date in the future or such words as anticipates, aims, due, could, may, should, will, would, expects, believes, intends, plans, targets, goal or estimates or, In brief All other trade marks and registered in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
Forward-looking trade marks are the property of their An overview of our business statements are not guarantees of future performance.
By their very nature forward-looking respective owners.
statements are inherently unpredictable, speculative and involve risk and uncertainty and performance throughout because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the the year.
This report is printed on Naturalis and Olin future.
Many of these assumptions, risks and uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond Smooth paper and has been idependently ONLINE ANNuAL REPORT the Groups ability to control or estimate precisely.
There are a number of such factors that certified on behalf of the Forest Stewardship p 14 www.
com annualreport2013 could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or Council FSC R. The inks used are implied by these forward-looking statements.
These factors include, but are not limited to, P resentation of the years vegetable oil based.
changes in the economies and markets in which the Group operates: changes in the legal, key content regulatory and competition frameworks in which the Group operates: changes in the printed alcohol free by CpI Colour - Video stories from the year markets from which the Group raises finance: the impact of legal or other proceedings Chairmans Chief an ISO14001, FSC and CarbonNeutral against or which affect the Group: changes in accounting practices and interpretation of Executive team review of 2012 13 certified company.
accounting standards under IFRS: and changes in interest and exchange rates.
message Executive Create your own report tool and Any written or verbal forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report or the Annual Report chart generator Robert Noel reports on our market, Land Securities website or made subsequently which are attributable to Land Securities Alison Carnwath reviews the Group pLC or any other member of the Group or persons acting on their behalf are expressly the Companys strategy, the key performance of the Company qualified in their entirety by the factors referred to above.
Each forward-looking statement factors underlying our performance, during the year, outlines Board CORPORATE WEbsITE speaks only as of the date it is made.
Except as required by its legal or regulatory obligations, and our prospects over the next activity and offers her outlook Land Securities Group pLC does not intend to update any forward-looking statements.
L atest news and investor updates Profiles of our Board Directors p 24 p 22 Press releases Easy access to content on careers and CR Design by saslondon.
com Financial Business Words by Tim Rich photography by Luke Hayes CORPORATE REsPONsIbILITy review review Board portraits by John Wildgoose www.
com responsibility Martin Greenslade reports A focus on our Retail and London W hy Corporate Responsibility on our financial performance portfolios and the key factors is important in detail.
What CR means for investors, employees and communities p 26 p 36 Examples of CR in action Priorities and progress in 2012 13 Smart Good thinking governance Our smart long-term thinking Information on how we manage is achieving a successful and our businesses including Board sustainable business.
committees and Directors biographies and remuneration.
p 48 p 57 Financial Investor statements resource Financial statements for Supporting information to provide the Group and Company investors with a more detailed including a report from the analysis of the Companys independent auditor.
Land Securities Group pLC p 93 p 147 5 Strand, London WC2N 5AF T 44 0 20 7413 9000 E investor.
com Annual Report 2013 WORKING TO A CLEAR PLAN Annual Report 2013
