Performance review Governance Financial statements Overview Independent auditors report to the members of LondonMetric Property Plc We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies LondonMetric Property Plc for the year ended 31 March 2013 Act 2006 which comprise the Parent Company Balance Sheet and the In our opinion: related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been the part of the Directors remuneration report to be applied in their preparation is applicable law and United audited has been properly prepared in accordance Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally with the Companies Act 2006: and Accepted Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors report for the financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, period for which the financial statements are prepared is as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters Matters on which we are required to report by exception we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our in our opinion: audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors not been received from branches not visited by us: or As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors the Parent Company financial statements and the part of responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not of the Parent Company financial statements and for being in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company by law are not made: or financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those we have not received all the information and explanations standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices we require for our audit.
Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matter Scope of the audit of the financial statements We have reported separately on the Group financial A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements statements of LondonMetric Property Plc for the year ended is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at 31 March 2013. www.
Opinion on financial statements David Eagle Senior Statutory Auditor In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: For and on behalf of BDO LLP, statutory auditor give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys London affairs as at 31 March 2013: United Kingdom have been properly prepared in accordance with United 31 May 2013 Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England have been prepared in accordance with the requirements and Wales with registered number OC305127.
Annual report and accounts 2013 LondonMetric Property Plc 81
