Governance Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate and the financial statements in accordance with applicable accountingrecords that are sufficient to show and explain theCompanys transactions and disclose with reasonable law and regulations.
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial and enable them to ensure that the financial statements statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the are required to prepare the Group financial statements in Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Theyare also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and have elected Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the toprepare the Company financial statements in accordance prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Website publication Under company law the Directors must not approve the The Directors are responsible for ensuring the annual report financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give andthe financial statements are made available on a website.
atrue and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Financial statements are published on the Companys website Company and of the profit or loss for the Group for that period.
in accordance with legislation in the United Kingdom governing In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, required to: which may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The t select suitable accounting policies and then apply maintenance and integrity of the companys website is the themconsistently: responsibility of the Directors.
The Directors responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity of the financial statements t make judgements and accounting estimates that are contained therein.
reasonable and prudent: t state whether they have been prepared in accordance Directors responsibilities pursuant to DTR4 withIFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject to anymaterial departures disclosed and explained in the The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge: nancialstatements: t the Group financial statements have been prepared in t prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will the IAS Regulation and give a true and fair view of the assets, continue in business: and liabilities, financial position and profit and loss of the Group: t prepare a Directors report and Directors remuneration and report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. t the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the financial position of the Group and the Parent Company, together with adescription or the principal risks and uncertainties that theyface.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Martin McGann Finance Director 31 May 2013 44 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
