Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of the members of LondonMetric Property Plc Registered number 7124797 will be held at The Connaught, Carlos Place, Mayfair, London W1K 2AL, on 10 July 2013 at 10 am.
Resolutions 1 to 12 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 13 to 15 will be proposed as special resolutions.
To consider and receive the Annual Report and Audited Financial Statements for the year to 31 March 2013.
To approve the Remuneration Committee report for the year ended 31 March 2013.
To approve the final dividend for the year to 31 March 2013 of 3.5p per share.
To reappoint BDO LLP as auditors of the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
To authorise the Board to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
To consider the election of Mr Andrew Jones as a Director of the Company.
To consider the election of Mr Andrew Varley as a Director of the Company.
To consider the election of Mr Alec Pelmore as a Director of the Company.
To consider the election of Mr Philip Watson as a Director of the Company.
That the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act in substitution for all existing authorities: a. to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares and to make offers or agreements to allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company together relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 20,934,797: and b. to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of the 2006 Act up to an additional aggregate nominal amount of 20,934,797 provided that this authority may only be used in connection with a rights issue in favour of holders of ordinary shares and other persons entitled to participate therein where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all those persons at such record dates as the Directors may determine are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of equity securities held or deemed to be held by them or are otherwise allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to such equity securities subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may consider necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal difficulties under the laws of any territory or the requirements of a regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue of shares being represented by depositary receipts or any other matter whatsoever, provided that the authorities in 10a and 10b shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or if earlier on the date which is 15 months after the date of the Annual General Meeting, except that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require Relevant Securities or equity securities as the case may be to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot Relevant Securities or equity securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the authority in question had not expired.
That the rules of the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan the principal terms of which are summarised in the attached Appendix to this Notice on pages 88 to 91 and the draft rules for which will be produced at the meeting and initialled by the Chairman for purposes of identification be and are hereby approved with such immaterial modifications if any as the Directors consider necessary or desirable and the Directors be and are hereby authorised to do all such acts and things as they consider necessary or desirable for the purposes of implementing and carry the same into effect.
That the LondonMetric Property Employee Benefit Trust the principal terms of which are summarised in the attached Appendix to this Notice on pages 88 to 91 and the draft trust deed for which will be produced at the meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of identification be and it is hereby approved with such immaterial modifications if any as the Directors or the trustee consider necessary or desirable and the Directors be and are hereby authorised to do all such acts and things as they consider necessary or desirable for the purposes of implementing and carry the same into effect.
86 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Performance review Governance Financial statements Overview 13.
That the Directors be and are empowered, in accordance with Section 570 of the 2006 Act, to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 1 of the 2006 Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution number 10 or by way of a sale of treasury shares as if Section 561 1 of the 2006 Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: a. the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue or other pro rata offer but, in the case of the authority granted conferred by paragraph 10b, by way of a rights issue only in favour of holders of ordinary shares and other persons entitled to participate therein where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all those persons at such record dates as the Directors may determine are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of equity securities held or deemed to be held by them or are otherwise allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to such equity securities subject in each case to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may consider necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal difficulties under the laws of any territory or the requirements of a regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue of shares being represented by depositary receipts or any other matter whatsoever: b. and the allotment otherwise than pursuant to paragraph 10a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,140,220. and shall expire upon the expiry of the general authority conferred by Resolution 10 above, except that the Company may make an offer or agreement before this power expires which would or might require equity securities to be allotted and or shares held by the Company in treasury to be sold or transferred after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities and or sell or transfer shares held by the Company in treasury in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred by this resolution had not expired.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, in accordance with Section 701 of the 2006 Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the 2006 Act of ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the Directors may from time to time determine provided that: a. the maximum number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased is 62,804,391: b. the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is 10p exclusive of expenses payable by the Company : c. the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share exclusive of expenses payable by the Company cannot be more than the higher of: i 105% of the average market value of an ordinary share for the five business days prior to the day on which the ordinary share is contracted to be purchased: and ii the value of an ordinary share calculated on the basis of the higher of: A the last independent trade of: or B the highest current independent bid for, any number of ordinary shares on the trading venue where the market purchase by the Company will be carried out: and the authority conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company except that the Company may before such expiry make a contract to purchase its own shares which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
That the Company is authorised to call any general meeting of the Company other than the Annual General Meeting by notice of at least 14 clear days during the period beginning on the date of the passing of this resolution and ending on the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
By order of the Board Jadzia Duzniak Company Secretary 31 May 2013 Annual report and accounts 2013 LondonMetric Property Plc 87 Appendix Long Term Incentive Plan Resolution 11 seeks shareholder approval for the adoption of the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan Plan.
The principal purpose of the plan is to provide a long-term incentive to senior management which is aligned as closely possible to the interests of shareholders.
Copies of the draft rules of the proposed Plan are available for inspection at the Companys Registered Office during normal business hours on any weekday up to and including 10 July 2013 and at the Annual General Meeting convened for that day from at least 15 minutes prior to the appointed time for the meeting until the meeting is concluded or adjourned.
a Eligibility All employees of the Company and its subsidiaries from time to time the Group, including Executive Directors, are eligible to participate in the Plan at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
However, those Executive Directors of the Company appointed prior to its merger with Metric Property Investments plc will not participate in the Plan until 1 October 2013. b Grant of awards The Plan provides for the grant of nil cost options Awards over ordinary shares in the capital of the Company Shares.
Awards may also be structured as conditional rights to acquire Shares, or to receive a cash payment.
The price if any at which a participant may acquire shares on the exercise or vesting of an Award under the Plan will be determined by the Remuneration Committee on the date of grant and may, if the Remuneration Committee sees fit, be nil or equal to the nominal value of a Share.
Awards may be granted during the period of i 42 days following shareholder approval of the Plan or an amendment to the Plan, ii 42 days following the announcement of the Company's final or interim results for any financial period, or iii within 42 days following the occurrence of an event which the Remuneration Committee considers to be exceptional.
If any of the above periods is a close period as a result of the application of the Listing Rules, then Awards may be granted within 42 days of the end of the close period.
No Awards may be granted more than ten years after the adoption of the Plan.
Awards may be granted over newly issued Shares, treasury shares or Shares purchased in the market.
Except to the extent required by foreign laws, Awards will not form part of a participants pensionable earnings.
Awards are not transferable other than on death without the consent of the Remuneration Committee.
No payment will be required for the grant of an Award.
c Vesting The Remuneration Committee will determine at the date of grant when and how Awards will vest.
Ordinarily, Awards will vest on the third anniversary of grant subject to i the participant remaining an employee or director of a Group company, and ii the satisfaction of performance targets measured over three consecutive financial years.
The period from the date of grant until the date of vesting shall be known as the Vesting Period.
It is proposed that the first tranche of Awards to be granted under the Plan will vest subject to the following performance conditions: 1.
Total shareholder return TSR Rights to acquire three-quarters 75% of the Shares subject to an Award will be subject to a TSR based condition.
TSR, or movement in the share price plus the dividend in the year, is an effective measure of the change in shareholder returns during a Financial Year or performance period.
The Companys TSR will be benchmarked against the TSR of the FTSE 350 Real Estate index the Index over the performance period.
Vesting of the TSR portion of an Award will be based on the following table: Companys TSR performance measured against that of the Index Percentage of the TSR part of the Award vesting Company performance is less than the Index 0% Company performance is equal to the Index 25% Company performance is 50% or greater than that of the Index 100% Straight-line vesting will occur if the Companys TSR relative percentage is between the 25% and 100% vesting levels.
In addition, the Company must have a positive TSR over the performance period for vesting to occur.
88 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Performance review Governance Financial statements Overview 2.
Earnings Per Share Rights to acquire one-quarter 25% of the Shares subject to an Award will be subject to an Earnings Per Share based condition whereby the Company's Earnings calculated on the European Public Real Estate Association Basis Per Share EPS performance over the performance period is measured against the Retail Prices Index RPI performance over the same period.
Vesting of this portion of an Award will be based on the following table: Companys EPS performance Percentage of the EPS part of the Award vesting EPS is less than RPI 3% 0% EPS is equal to RPI 3% 25% EPS is equal to RPI 8% 100% Straight-line vesting will occur if the Companys EPS performance is between the 25% and 100% vesting levels.
Failure to meet these targets will result in the relevant part of the Award lapsing.
Subsequent Awards may be subject to different performance conditions, which will be determined at the time of their grant at the Remuneration Committee's discretion.
If events occur which cause the Remuneration Committee to reasonably believe that the original performance conditions are no longer a fair measure of performance, then the conditions may be amended or waived in such manner as may be fair and reasonable in the Remuneration Committee's discretion.
d Dividends If the Remuneration Committee so determines in its absolute discretion participants will be entitled to receive additional Shares or cash representing the value of dividends declared during the Vesting Period on the number of Shares subject to the participant's Award which have vested.
Any Shares so awarded will not count towards the individual limits summarised in paragraph f nor the company limits summarised in paragraph g below.
e Clawback Awards will be granted subject to clawback conditions requiring any Shares acquired or proceeds acquired thereon in connection with the Award to be forfeited for nil consideration in the event of gross misconduct or material misstatement in the accounts.
f Individual limits The aggregate market value of Shares subject to Awards granted to an eligible employee under the Plan in any financial year will not exceed 200% of that person's gross annual salary as at the date of grant.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to determine the size of an Award granted to any individual under the Plan within this maximum limit.
In applying the above limit, no account will be taken of Shares which are issued and which represent the value of dividends declared during the Vesting Period on the number of Shares which are subject to a participant's Award and which have vested.
In order to calculate the size of an Award for the purposes of this limit, market value will be determined by reference to the Company's share price averaged over five dealing days from and including the announcement of the Company's annual results for the financial year ended 31 March 2013, in respect of initial grants under the Plan.
Alternatively, the Remuneration Committee has discretion to refer to the Company's share price averaged over five dealing days prior to but not including the relevant date of grant, or such other basis as it in its absolute discretion sees fit.
g Scheme limits The number of Shares in respect of which Awards to subscribe for Shares may be granted on any date shall be limited so that the total number of Shares issued and issuable in respect of Awards granted under the Plan and any other executive discretionary share scheme operated by the Company in any ten-year period is restricted to 5% of the Companys issued ordinary shares, calculated at the relevant time.
The number of Shares in respect of which Awards to subscribe for Shares may be granted on any date shall be limited so that the total number of Shares issued and issuable in respect of Awards granted under the Plan and any other share scheme operated by the Company in any ten-year period is restricted to 10% of the Company's issued ordinary shares, calculated at the relevant time.
For the purposes of these limits, no account will be taken of options or awards which have lapsed, been surrendered or otherwise become incapable of exercise or vesting.
Treasury shares will be treated as newly issued Shares for the purposes of this limit, but for the avoidance of doubt Shares acquired in the market will not.
In addition, no account will be taken of Shares which are issued and which represent the value of dividends declared during the Vesting Period on the number of Shares subject to the participant's Award which have vested.
Annual report and accounts 2013 LondonMetric Property Plc 89 Appendix continued h Manner of exercise allotment Within 30 days of vesting and or the receipt of a notice of exercise or call of an Award, together with a payment or arrangements to pay for the aggregate exercise price due if any and a payment or arrangements to pay for any income tax and employee social security contributions or similar liabilities due, the Shares in respect of which the Award has vested or been exercised must be issued by the Company or the Company must procure their transfer which for the purposes of the Plan includes the transfer of Shares out of treasury to the participant and shall issue a definitive certificate in respect of the Shares allotted or transferred.
Shares issued or transferred by the Company on the exercise and or vesting of Awards will rank pari passu with existing Shares.
i Termination of employment Unvested Awards granted under the Plan will normally lapse on cessation of employment.
However, if a participant is a good leaver i. e. if he or she dies or leaves employment through illness, injury or disability, retirement or because his or her employing company or business in which he or she works is sold out of the Company's group or for any other reason approved by the Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion, then the Remuneration Committee may permit that participant or his or her personal representatives as the case may be to retain the unvested Award and permit vesting exercise subject to the satisfaction of the performance conditions and a pro-rata reduction for the time that has elapsed since the relevant date of cessation.
The Remuneration Committee also reserves the right to permit vesting exercise subject to a lesser reduction or none at all than that calculated by applying a pro-rata reduction.
Alternatively, the Remuneration Committee may, in its discretion, permit some or all of the unvested Awards held by a good leaver to immediately vest and or be exercised during a limited period following cessation, having regard to the achievement of the performance conditions and the period of time that has passed since the relevant date of grant.
If a participant ceases employment in any circumstances other than the good leaver circumstances described above then all his or her Awards vested and unvested will lapse on such cessation.
j Change of control If a change of control event occurs, such as a takeover, or other capital event, the Remuneration Committee will determine the extent to which subsisting unvested Awards will vest and, in the case of options, become exercisable, by reference to the extent to which performance conditions have been satisfied taking into account the reduced performance period and pro-rating Awards to take into account the period which has elapsed since the date of grant.
The Remuneration Committee may, if it sees fit, permit vesting on an alternative basis, including, but not limited to, full vesting.
k Variation of Share capital In the event of a capitalisation issue or offer by way of rights including an open offer, a special dividend or a demerger, or upon any consolidation, subdivision or reduction or other variation of the Company's capital, the number of Shares subject to an Award and or the exercise price if any may be adjusted in such manner as the Remuneration Committee shall, in its opinion, consider fair and reasonable.
l Amendments and general The Plan may be amended by the Board in any way provided that: i no amendment, addition or deletion may be made to the Plan which would materially prejudice the interests of participants in relation to Awards already granted to them unless the sanction of at least 75% of the participants by value of subsisting Awards has been obtained: and ii all amendments to the advantage of participants to the provisions relating to the definition of eligible employee, limits on the number of Shares subject to the Plan, the maximum entitlement for any one participant or the basis for determining a participant's entitlement to and the terms of Shares to be provided and adjustment thereof, if any, in the event of a capitalisation issue, rights issue, subdivision or consolidation of Shares or reduction of capital or any other variation of capital will require the prior consent of the Company in general meeting unless they are minor amendments to benefit the administration of the scheme or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants, the Company or a member of the Group.
The Board may amend the Plan by way of separate schedules to enable it to be operated overseas, provided that the terms of the separate schedules are not overall more favourable than the terms of the Plan.
90 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Performance review Governance Financial statements Overview m Proposed Awards for the financial year ended 31 March 2013 Subject to shareholder approval of the Plan, it is proposed that Awards for the financial year ended 31 March 2013, will be granted as soon as possible following such shareholder approval the 2013 Awards.
The 2013 Awards will be granted subject to the vesting criteria summarised at paragraph c above.
The size of the 2013 Awards for the purposes of the limits summarised at paragraphs f and g above, will be calculated by reference to the Company's share price averaged over five dealing days from and including the announcement of the Company's results for the year ended 31 March 2013.
Those Executive Directors of the Company appointed prior to its merger with Metric Property Investments plc will not be eligible to participate in the Plan until 1 October 2013, at which point, it is proposed that they will be granted an Award equal to 50% of what would otherwise have been their annual grant for 2013 as determined by the Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion.
Employee Benefit Trust Resolution 12 seeks shareholder approval for the adoption of an Employee Benefit Trust EBT, details of which are set out below.
The full draft trust deed for the proposed EBT is available for inspection at the Companys Registered Office during normal business hours on any weekday up to and including 10 July 2013 and at the Annual General Meeting itself from at least 15 minutes prior to the appointed time for the meeting until the meeting is concluded or adjourned.
a Constitution The EBT will be a discretionary trust constituted by a trust deed between the Company and an independent off-shore professional trustee company the Trustees.
The EBT will be constituted as an employees share scheme within the meaning of Section 1166 of the Companies Act 2006, with the purpose which includes but is not limited to encouraging and facilitating the holding of shares by bona fide employees of the Company which, for these purposes includes Executive Directors and its subsidiaries, former employees and certain of their relatives or for their benefit.
b Power and funding The Trustees will have full discretion with regard to the application of the trust fund.
The Trustees will have the power to acquire Shares and any Shares so acquired may be used for the purposes of the grant of Awards under the Plan and or any other employees' share scheme adopted by the Company.
The EBT may be funded by way of loan or gift to acquire Shares either by market purchase or by subscription.
c Limits to holdings and dividend waiver Any shares issued to the EBT in order to satisfy Awards it has granted will be treated as counting towards the dilution limits that apply to the Plan.
For the avoidance of doubt, any shares acquired by the EBT in the market in order to satisfy Awards will not count towards these limits.
Unless directed otherwise, the Trustees will waive any dividends paid on the Shares settled in the EBT.
Annual report and accounts 2013 LondonMetric Property Plc 91 Notes to Annual General Meeting Notice i Shareholders entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies who need not be shareholders to attend and vote on their behalf, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attaching to different shares held by him or her.
ii Your proxy could be the Chairman, another Director of the Company or another person who has agreed to attend to represent you.
Your proxy will vote as you instruct and must attend the meeting for your vote to be counted.
Details of how to appoint the Chairman or another person as your proxy using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
iii Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraph i above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in that paragraph can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
iv To have the right to attend and vote at the meeting you must hold ordinary shares in the Company and your name must be entered on the share register of the Company in accordance with note vi below.
v To be valid, Forms of Proxy and the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy thereof must be received by Capita Registrars, PXS, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU as soon as possible but, in any event, so as to arrive no later than 10 am on 8 July 2013.
A Form of Proxy accompanies this notice.
Completion and return of a Form of Proxy will not preclude members from attending and voting at the meeting should they wish to do so.
Where you have appointed a proxy using the hard copy proxy form and would like to change the instructions using another hard copy proxy form, please contact Capita Registrars, PXS, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments see above also applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any attempt to terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share in respect of the same meeting, the one which is last sent shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others.
vi The time by which a person must be entered on the register of members in order to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting is 6 pm on 8 July 2013.
If the meeting is adjourned, the time by which a person must be entered on the register of members in order to have the right to attend or vote at the adjourned meeting is 6 pm on the day that is two days before the date fixed for the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the register of members after such times shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
vii CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
viii In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Irelands specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID number RA10 by 10 am on 8 July 2013.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
ix The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. x CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his or her CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
92 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Performance review Governance Financial statements Overview xi Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
xii You may not use any electronic address provided either in this notice of Annual General Meeting or any related documents including the form of proxy to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
xiii As at 28 May 2013 being the closest practical business day before the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital consisted of 628,043,905 ordinary shares carrying one vote each.
xiv Members satisfying the thresholds in Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a statement on its website setting out any matter relating to: a the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the meeting: or b any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the last Annual General Meeting, that the members propose to raise at the meeting.
The Company cannot require the members requesting the publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the website must also be sent to the Companys auditors no later than the time it makes its statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required to publish on its website.
xv Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if: a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
xvi A copy of this notice, and other information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.
com xvii The following documents are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours on each weekday public holidays excluded and at the place of the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting: a copies of the Executive Directors service contracts with the Company: and b copies of letters of appointment of Non-Executive Directors.
Annual report and accounts 2013 LondonMetric Property Plc 93
