134 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Parent Company accounting policies for the year ended 30 September 2013 Introduction G Derivatives and other financial instruments The significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage its separate financial statements of the Company are set out below: exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
Derivative instruments utilised include interest rate swaps, cross A Accounting convention and basis currency swaps and forward currency contracts.
The Company and Group policy is disclosed in the accounting policies to the of preparation consolidated financial statements.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP and H Dividends the Companies Act 2006 using the historical cost convention modified Dividends are recognised in the Companys financial statements for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
in the year in which they are approved in general meeting by These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern the Companys Shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised basis.
This is discussed in the Finance Directors statement on page 44. when paid.
B Exemptions I Deferred tax The Companys financial statements are included in the Compass Deferred tax is provided at the anticipated rates on timing Group PLC consolidated financial statements for the year ended differences arising from the inclusion of items of income and 30 September 2013.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act expenditure in tax computations in periods different from those 2006, the Company has not presented its own profit and loss account.
in which they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred The Company has also taken advantage of the exemption from tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more presenting a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 Cash Flow likely than not that they will be recovered.
The Company is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures from disclosing transactions with other J Share-based payments members of Compass Group.
The Group issues equity settled and cash settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity settled share-based payments The Compass Group PLC consolidated financial statements for are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non-market based the year ended 30 September 2013 contain financial instrument vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined disclosures which comply with FRS 29 Financial Instruments: at the grant date of the equity settled share-based payments is Disclosures.
Consequently, the Company has taken advantage expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based of the exemption in FRS 29 not to present separate financial instrument on the Groups estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and disclosures for the Company.
adjusted for the effect of non-market based vesting conditions.
C Change in accounting policies Fair value is measured using either the binomial distribution or The Company has not applied any accounting standards for the Black-Scholes pricing models as is most appropriate for each first time in the year ended 30 September 2013. scheme.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise D Investments in subsidiary undertakings restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Investments are stated at cost less provision for any impairment.
For cash settled share-based payments, a liability equal to the portion In the opinion of the Directors, the value of such investments is of the goods or services received is recognised at the current fair not less than shown at the balance sheet date.
value determined at each balance sheet date.
E Foreign currency The issue of share incentives by the Company to employees of its Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling subsidiaries represents additional capital contributions.
An addition to the Companys investment in Group undertakings is reported with at the rates of exchange ruling at the year end.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the profit and loss account a corresponding increase in Shareholders funds.
For details of the charge see note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
F Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost unless they are part of a fair value hedge accounting relationship.
Borrowings that are part of a fair value hedge accounting relationship are measured at amortised cost plus or minus the fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.
