142 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Shareholder information Notice of Annual General Meeting 7.
To re-elect Richard Cousins as a Director of the Company.
T o re-elect Gary Green as a Director of the Company.
This document is important and requires your immediate attention.
T o re-elect Andrew Martin as a Director of the Company.
If you are in any doubt as to the action 10.
To re-elect John Bason as a Director of the Company.
you should take, you should immediately 11.
To re-elect Susan Murray as a Director of the Company.
consult your stockbroker, bank manager, 12.
To re-elect Don Robert as a Director of the Company.
solicitor, accountant or other independent 13.
To re-elect Sir Ian Robinson as a Director of the Company.
financial advisor authorised under the 14.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys Auditor until the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred 15.
To authorise the Directors to agree the Auditors remuneration.
all your shares in Compass Group PLC, 16.
To authorise the Company and any company which is, or please send this Notice and the becomes, a subsidiary of the Company during the period to which accompanying documents to the this Resolution relates to: purchaser or transferee, or to the 16.1 make donations to political parties or independent election stockbroker, bank or other agent through candidates: 16.2 make donations to political organisations other than political whom the sale or transfer was effected for parties: and transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
16.3 incur political expenditure, during the period commencing on the date of this Resolution and ending on the date of the Companys next Annual General Meeting, provided that any such donations and expenditure Notice is hereby given that the thirteenth Annual General made by the Company, or by any such subsidiary, shall not Meeting of Compass Group PLC the Company will be held in exceed 100,000 per company and, together with those made the Churchill Auditorium at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference by any such subsidiary and the Company, shall not exceed in Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on aggregate 100,000.
Thursday, 6 February 2014 at 12 noon in order to transact the following business: Any terms used in this Resolution which are defined in Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006 shall bear the same meaning for the To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Resolutions, of purposes of this Resolution 16. which Resolutions 18 to 20 will be proposed as special resolutions and all other Resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
To renew the power conferred on the Directors by Article 12 of the Companys Articles of Association for a period expiring at the end 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Annual Report and Accounts of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the date and the Auditors Report thereon for the financial year ended on which this Resolution is passed or, if earlier, 5 May 2015: for 30 September 2013. that period the section 551 amount shall be 59,913,600 and, in 2.
T o receive and adopt the Remuneration Policy set out on pages addition, the section 551 amount shall be increased by 59,913,600, 57 to 64 of the Directors Remuneration Report contained within provided that the Directors power in respect of such latter the Annual Report and Accounts for the financial year ended amount shall only be used in connection with a rights issue: 30 September 2013, such Remuneration Policy to take effect 17.1 to holders of ordinary shares in proportion as nearly as from the date on which this Resolution is passed.
may be practicable to their existing holdings: and 3.
To receive and adopt the Directors Remuneration Report other 17.2 to holders of other equity securities as required by the rights than the Remuneration Policy referred to in Resolution 2 above of those securities or as the Board otherwise considers contained within the Annual Report and Accounts for the financial necessary, year ended 30 September 2013. and that the Directors may impose any limits or restrictions and 4.
T o declare a final dividend of 16 pence per ordinary share in make any arrangements which they consider necessary to deal respect of the financial year ended 30 September 2013. with fractional entitlements, legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of, any relevant regulatory body or 5.
T o elect Paul Walsh as a Director of the Company.
stock exchange, any territory, or any matter whatsoever.
To re-elect Dominic Blakemore as a Director of the Company.
See this Report and our full Corporate Responsibility Report online at www.
com ar13 Shareholder information Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Shareholder information 143 Special Resolutions Explanatory notes to the Resolutions 18.
To renew, subject to the passing of Resolution 17 above, the power Resolution 1 Annual Report and Accounts conferred on the Directors by Article 13 of the Companys Articles The Directors are required to present to the Annual General Meeting of Association, such authority to apply until the conclusion of the AGM the Meeting the audited accounts and the Directors and next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the date on Auditors Reports for the financial year ended 30 September 2013. which this Resolution is passed or, if earlier, 5 May 2015 and for that period the section 561 amount is 8,987,040.
Resolution 2 Remuneration Policy Shareholders are requested to approve the Remuneration Policy.
To generally and unconditionally authorise the Company, pursuant The Remuneration Policy is set out on pages 57 to 64 of the Directors to and in accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006, Remuneration Report contained within the 2013 Annual Report to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of and Accounts.
that Act of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company subject to the following conditions: In accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act the CA 2006, a new requirement has been introduced for a separate Resolution on 19.1 the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares hereby the Remuneration Policy part of the Directors Remuneration Report authorised to be purchased is 179,740,800: to be put to a vote by Shareholders.
The vote is binding which means 19.2 the minimum price excluding expenses which may be paid that payments cannot be made under the Policy until it has been for each ordinary share is 10 pence: approved by Shareholders.
19.3 the maximum price excluding expenses which may be paid for each ordinary share in respect of a share contracted to be The Policy Report must be put to Shareholders at least every three purchased on any day, does not exceed the higher of 1 an years, unless during that time it is to be changed.
The Company amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market currently intends to submit the Policy for approval by Shareholders quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London on an annual basis.
Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days Resolution 3 Directors Remuneration Report immediately preceding the day on which the purchase is In accordance with section 439 of the CA 2006, Shareholders are made and 2 the higher of the price of the last independent requested to approve the Directors Remuneration Report.
The trade and the highest current independent bid for an ordinary Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 55 to 70 of the share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading 2013 Annual Report and Accounts.
System: and 19.4 this authority shall expire, unless previously renewed, varied Resolution 4 Final Dividend or revoked by the Company, at the conclusion of the next The final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2013 will be paid Annual General Meeting of the Company or 5 August 2015, on 24 February 2014 to Shareholders on the register at the close of whichever is the earlier except in relation to the purchase of business on 24 January 2014, subject to Shareholder approval.
ordinary shares, the contract for which was concluded prior Resolutions 5 to 13 Election and Re-election of Directors to the expiry of this authority and which will or may be Biographical details of all the Directors standing for re-election appear executed wholly or partly after the expiry of this authority.
on pages 8 and 9 of the 2013 Annual Report.
T o authorise the Directors to call a general meeting of the Company, In line with the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, other than an Annual General Meeting, on not less than 14 clear Paul Walsh, who was appointed by the Board since the date of the days notice, provided that this authority shall expire at the last AGM, will submit himself for election by Shareholders.
Details of conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company Mr Walshs appointment are given on page 64. after the date of the passing of this Resolution.
The Companys Articles of Association require one third of the Voting on all Resolutions will be by way of a poll.
Directors to retire by rotation each year and no Director may serve By Order of the Board for more than three years without being re-elected by Shareholders.
however, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Mark J White the Code, all the Directors will submit themselves for annual General Counsel and Company Secretary re-election by Shareholders.
20 December 2013 having conducted an external evaluation during the year, it is the Registered Office: view of the Chairman that the performance of each of the Directors Compass house continues to be effective and that each Director demonstrates Guildford Street commitment to the role and has sufficient time to meet his or her Chertsey commitment to the Company.
Surrey KT16 9BQ Resolutions 14 and 15 Auditor Registered in England and Wales No.
4083914 The Auditor is appointed at every general meeting at which accounts are presented to Shareholders.
The current appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Companys Auditor will end at the conclusion of the AGM and it has advised of its willingness to stand for re-appointment.
It is normal practice for a companys directors to be authorised to agree how much the Auditor should be paid and Resolution 15 grants this authority to the Directors.
144 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Shareholder information Notice of Annual General Meeting Resolution 16 Donations to Political Parties This represents 89,870,400 ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the It is not Group policy to make donations to political parties.
however, capital of the Company, which is approximately 5% of the Companys it is possible that certain routine activities undertaken by the Company issued ordinary share capital as at 1 December 2013 being the last and its subsidiaries might unintentionally fall within the wide definition practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice.
The authority of matters constituting political donations and expenditure in the would, unless previously renewed, revoked or varied by Shareholders, CA 2006.
Any expenditure that is regulated under the CA 2006 must expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held in first be approved by Shareholders and will be disclosed in next years 2015 or on 5 May 2015, if earlier.
This Resolution, if passed, will renew the Directors Save for issues of shares in respect of various employee share authority until the AGM to be held in 2015 when the Directors intend schemes and any share dividend alternatives, the Directors have no to renew this authority to make donations and incur expenditure current plans to utilise either of the authorities sought by Resolutions which might otherwise be caught by the terms of the CA 2006, 17 and 18 although they consider their renewal appropriate in order to up to an aggregate amount of 100,000 for the Company and for retain maximum flexibility to take advantage of business opportunities subsidiary companies.
The financial limit has been reduced from as they arise.
In addition, and in line with best practice, the Company 125,000 last year.
has not issued more than 7.5% of its issued share capital on a Resolution 17 Directors Authority to Allot Shares non-pro rata basis over the last three years and the Board confirms The purpose of Resolution 17 is to renew the Directors power to its intention to follow best practice set out in the Pre-emption Groups allot shares.
Resolution 17.1 seeks to grant the Directors authority Statement of Principles which provides that usage of this authority to allot, pursuant to Article 12 of the Companys Articles of Association in excess of 7.5% of the Companys issued share capital in a rolling and section 551 of the CA 2006, relevant securities with a maximum three year period would not take place without prior consultation nominal amount of 59,913,600.
This represents 599,136,000 ordinary with Shareholders.
shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company, which is Resolution 19 Purchase of own Shares approximately one third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital This Resolution authorises the Directors to make limited on market as at 1 December 2013 being the last practicable date prior to the purchases of the Companys ordinary shares.
The power is limited publication of this Notice.
The Company does not currently hold to a maximum of 179,740,800 shares just under 10% of the issued any shares as treasury shares.
The authority would, unless previously ordinary share capital as at 1 December 2013, being the last renewed, revoked or varied by Shareholders, remain in force up to practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice and details the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held in 2015, or the minimum and maximum prices that can be paid, exclusive of 5 May 2015, whichever is earlier.
The authority conferred by this Resolution will expire at In accordance with the Association of British Insurers Allotment the conclusion of the Companys next AGM or 18 months from the passing of this Resolution, whichever is the earlier.
Guidelines the Guidelines, Resolution 17.2 seeks to grant the Directors authority to allot approximately a further one third of the Companys The CA 2006 permits the Company to hold shares repurchased as issued ordinary share capital in connection with a rights issue in favour treasury shares.
Treasury shares may be cancelled, sold for cash of ordinary Shareholders with a nominal value of up to 59,913,600 or used for the purpose of employee share schemes.
The authority representing 599,136,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
Such to be sought by this Resolution is intended to apply equally to shares additional authority will be valid for a period of one year or until the to be held by the Company as treasury shares.
No dividends will be conclusion of the next AGM, whichever is the sooner.
paid on shares which are held as treasury shares and no voting rights If the Company uses any of the additional one third authority permitted will be attached to them.
Shares held as treasury shares will be by the Guidelines, the Company will ensure that all Directors stand for treated as if cancelled.
The Companys current practice is that all Directors submit The Company expects its existing 400 million share repurchase themselves for re-election each year in accordance with the Code, programme to be completed by the end of December 2013.
On notwithstanding the provisions set out in the Guidelines.
27 November 2013, the Company announced its intention to The total authorisation sought by Resolution 17 is equal to approximately commence a further 500 million share repurchase programme, to be executed over the 12 month period to the end of December 2014. two thirds of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 1 December 2013, being the last practicable date prior to publication Beyond these programmes, the Directors have no present intention of exercising the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares of this Notice.
but they consider it desirable to provide maximum flexibility in the Resolutions 1 to 17 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and require management of the Companys capital resources.
The Directors that more than half of the votes cast must be in favour of would only purchase shares if, in their opinion, the expected effect a resolution for it to be passed.
would be to result in an increase in earnings per share and would Resolution 18 Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights benefit Shareholders generally.
If the Company issues new shares, or sells treasury shares, for cash As at 1 December 2013 being the last practicable date prior to the other than in connection with an employee share scheme, it must first publication of this Notice, there were options to subscribe for ordinary offer them to existing Shareholders in proportion to their existing shares issued by the Company outstanding over approximately holdings.
In accordance with investor guidelines, approval is sought 23,384,535 shares which represent 1.30% of the Companys issued by the Directors to issue a limited number of ordinary shares for cash ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares at that date.
If the without offering them to existing Shareholders.
authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares was exercised Resolution 18 seeks to renew the Directors authority to issue equity in full, these options would represent 1.45% of the Companys issued securities of the Company for cash without application of pre-emption ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares.
rights pursuant to Article 13 of the Companys Articles of Association and section 561 of the CA 2006.
Other than in connection with a rights, scrip dividend, or other similar issue, the authority contained in this Resolution would be limited to a maximum nominal amount of 8,987,040.
Shareholder information Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Shareholder information 145 Resolution 20 Notice of Meetings other than Annual cannot be sent through CREST on weekends, bank holidays or General Meetings after 8.00 p. m. on any other day.
For the purpose of this deadline, The Companys Articles of Association allow the Directors to call the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by general meetings other than Annual General Meetings on 14 clear the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications days notice.
however, under the Companies Shareholders Rights host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
Regulations 2009 the Regulations all general meetings must be held CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members on 21 days notice, unless Shareholders agree to a shorter notice and those CREST members that have appointed voting service period, and the Company has met the requirements for electronic provider s should contact their CREST sponsor or voting service voting under the Regulations.
This Resolution seeks to renew the provider s for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
authority granted by Shareholders at last years AGM which preserved For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and the Companys ability to call general meetings, other than AGMs, system timings, please refer to the CREST manual.
We may on 14 clear days notice, such authority to be effective until the treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the Companys next AGM, when a similar resolution will be proposed.
circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated The Directors confirm that the shorter notice period would not be Securities Regulations 2001, as amended.
used as a matter of routine, but only where flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and it is thought to be to the advantage of iii Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Shareholders as a whole.
An electronic voting facility will be made Regulations 2001 and section 360B 2 of the CA 2006, the available to all Shareholders for any meeting held on such notice.
Company specifies that only those Shareholders registered in the Register of Members of the Company as at 6.00 p. m. on Tuesday, Resolutions 18 to 20 will be proposed as special resolutions and require 4 February 2014 or, in the event that the Meeting is adjourned, that at least three quarters of the votes cast must be in favour of a in the Register of Members 48 hours before the time of any resolution for it to be passed.
adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend or vote at the Recommendation Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their The Directors consider that each of the Resolutions is in the name at the relevant time.
Changes to entries on the Register of best interests of the Company and the Shareholders as a whole Members after 6.00 p. m. on 4 February 2014 or, in the event that and, accordingly, recommend that all Shareholders vote in favour the Meeting is adjourned, less than 48 hours before the time of of all Resolutions, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the own holdings.
rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
Nominated Persons Important information Any person to whom a copy of this Notice is sent who is a person Proxies nominated under section 146 of the CA 2006 to enjoy information i A S hareholder entitled to attend and vote at the AGM may appoint rights Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him or a proxy or proxies who need not be a shareholder of the Company her and the Shareholder by whom he or she was nominated, have a to exercise all or any of his or her rights to attend, speak and vote right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy at the AGM.
Where more than one proxy is appointed, each proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment must be appointed for different shares.
right or does not wish to exercise it, he or she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the Shareholder as to Proxies may only be appointed by: the exercise of voting rights.
completing and returning the Form of Proxy enclosed with this The statement of the rights of Shareholders in relation to the Notice to PxS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU: appointment of proxies in note i above does not apply to Nominated going to www.
com and following the Persons.
The rights described in that note can only be exercised instructions for electronic submission provided there: or by Shareholders of the Company.
having an appropriate CREST message transmitted, if you are a user of the CREST system including CREST personal Shareholder rights and AGM business members.
Please refer to the CREST manual on the Euroclear Under sections 338 and section 338A of the CA 2006, Shareholders website www.
com CREST for further information.
meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company i to give to Shareholders of the Company Return of the Form of Proxy will not prevent a Shareholder entitled to receive notice of the AGM, notice of a resolution which may from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
however, if you properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the AGM and or do attend the Meeting, any proxy appointment will be treated ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the AGM any matter as revoked.
other than a proposed resolution which may be properly included The electronic addresses provided in this Notice are provided in the business.
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter solely for the purpose of enabling Shareholders to register the may properly be included in the business unless a in the case of a appointment of a proxy or proxies for the Meeting or to submit resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason their voting directions electronically.
you may not use any electronic of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution address provided in the Notice of this Meeting to communicate with or otherwise, b it is defamatory, or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
a request may be in hard copy or electronic form and must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in ii T o be effective the Form of Proxy must be completed in accordance the business, must be authorised by the person or persons making it, with the instructions and received by the Companys Registrar by must be received by the Company not later than 27 December 2013, 12 noon on Tuesday, 4 February 2014. being the date six clear weeks before the AGM, and in the case of a To appoint a proxy or to give an instruction to a previously matter to be included in the business only must be accompanied by appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST message must a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by 12 noon on Tuesday, 4 February 2014.
Please note, however, that proxy messages Great College Street Queen Annes Gate.
Old Queen Street 146 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Shareholder information Notice of Annual General Meeting Right to ask questions shares are entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of the Under section 319A of the CA 2006, Shareholders have the right Company.
On a vote by show of hands, every ordinary Shareholder to ask questions at the AGM relating to the business of the Meeting and who is present has one vote and every proxy present who has been for these to be answered, unless such answer would interfere unduly duly appointed by a Shareholder entitled to vote has one vote.
On a with the business of the Meeting, involve the disclosure of confidential vote by poll every ordinary Shareholder who is present in person or by information, if the answer has already been published on the proxy has one vote for every ordinary share held.
It is proposed that all Companys website or if it is not in the interests of the Company votes on the Resolutions at the AGM will be taken by way of a poll.
or the good order of the Meeting that the question be answered.
The total voting rights in the Company as at 1 December 2013 Website publication of audit concerns were 1,797,408,211.
Under section 527 of the CA 2006, Shareholders have a right to request Information available on website publication of any concerns that they propose to raise at the AGM The following information is available on the Companys website at relating to the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors www.
com: Report and the conduct of the audit that are to be submitted to the Meeting or any circumstances connected to the Companys Auditor i T he matters set out in this Notice of Meeting: who ceased to hold office since the last AGM.
The Company will ii T he total voting rights and number of shares of each class in publish the statement if sufficient requests have been received in respect of which Shareholders are entitled to exercise voting accordance with section 527 2 of the CA 2006 which, broadly, requires rights at the AGM: a minimum of 100 Shareholders holding an average of 1,000 ordinary iii Shareholders rights to include business to be dealt with at the shares each or Shareholders holding at least 5% of the Companys AGM: and issued ordinary share capital to make the request.
The Company may iv Shareholders statements, resolutions and matters of business not require the members requesting any such website publication to received by the Company after 20 December 2013. pay its expenses in complying with such request.
Where a statement is The AGM published, the Company will forward the statement to the Companys The doors of The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre will be open Auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on at 10.30 a. m. and the AGM will start promptly at 12 noon.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 If you are planning to attend the AGM, The Queen Elizabeth II of the CA 2006 to publish on its website.
Conference Centre is located in the City of Westminster.
Details of how to get to the venue may be found at Documents available for inspection www.
Copies of the service agreements of the Executive Directors, the letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors, the Directors deeds Attending the AGM of indemnity and the Register of Directors Interests will be available for If you are coming to the AGM, please bring your attendance card with inspection during normal business hours from the date of dispatch of you.
It authenticates your right to attend, speak and vote at the AGM this Notice until the date of the AGM Saturdays, Sundays and public and will speed your admission.
you may also find it useful to bring this holidays excepted at the registered office of the Company, Compass Notice of AGM and the Annual Report 2013 so that you can refer to house, Guildford Street, Chertsey KT16 9BQ, and will also be made them at the AGM.
All joint Shareholders may attend and speak at the available at the Meeting for a period of 15 minutes prior to and during AGM.
however, only the first Shareholder listed on the Register of the continuance of the Meeting.
Members is entitled to vote.
At the discretion of the Company, and subject to sufficient seating capacity, a Shareholder may enter with Total voting rights one guest, provided that the Shareholder and their guest register to As at 1 December 2013 being the last practicable date prior to enter the AGM at the same time.
the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital comprised 1,797,408,211 ordinary shares.
The holders of ordinary St. Jamess Park Queen Elizabeth II Westminster Main entrance Conference Centre Birdcage Walk Parliament Square Lewisham Street St. Margarets Houses of Parliament Westminster Abbey St. Jamess Park New Scotland Yard Old Pye Street King Charles Street Great George Street Westminster Bridge Parker St. Tothill Street Broadway Broad Sanctuary To Victoria Station Victoria Street Broadway Dartmouth Street Horse Guards Rd.
Matthew Great Smith Street Storeys Gate Tufton Street St. Margaret Street Parliament Street Victoria Embankment Abingdon Street Shareholder information Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Shareholder information 147 Questions Shareholder enquiries All Shareholders or their proxies will have the opportunity to ask Capita Asset Services maintain the Companys share register.
When invited by the Chairman, if you wish If you have any enquiries about the AGM or about your shareholding, to ask a question, please wait for a Company representative to bring you should contact Capita Asset Services, The Registry, you a microphone.
It would be helpful if you could state your name 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
before you ask your question.
A question may not be answered at American Depositary Receipt enquiries the Meeting if it is not considered to be in the interests of the Company BNy Mellon maintains the Companys American Depositary or the good order of the Meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of Receipt register.
If you have any enquiries about your holding sensitive information.
The Chairman may also nominate a representative of Compass American Depositary shares, you should contact to answer a specific question after the Meeting or refer the question BNy Mellon, Shareowner Services, PO Box 358516, Pittsburgh, to the Companys website.
Voting at the AGM Data protection statement The Company proposes that all Resolutions to be proposed at the your personal data includes all data provided by you, or on your AGM will be put to the vote on a poll.
This will result in a more accurate behalf, which relates to you as a Shareholder, including your name reflection of the views of all of the Companys Shareholders by ensuring and contact details, the votes you cast and your Reference Number that every vote is recognised, including the votes of Shareholders who attributed to you by the Company.
The Company determines the are unable to attend the Meeting but who have appointed a proxy purposes for which and the manner in which your personal data for the Meeting.
On a poll, each Shareholder has one vote for each is to be processed.
The Company and any third party to which it share held.
discloses the data including the Companys Registrar may process After each Resolution is put to the Meeting, you will be asked to cast your personal data for the purposes of compiling and updating the your vote.
All of the votes of the Shareholders present will be counted, Companys records, fulfilling its legal obligations and processing and added to those received by proxy, and the provisional final votes the Shareholder rights you exercise.
will be displayed at the Meeting.
Published information The voting results, which will include all votes cast for and against each If you would like to receive this Notice and or a copy of the Annual Resolution at the Meeting, and all proxies lodged prior to the Meeting, Report 2013 in an appropriate alternative format, such as large print, will be announced at the Meeting and published on the Companys Braille or an audio version on CD, please contact the Group Company website as soon as practicable after the Meeting.
The Company will Secretariat at Compass Group PLC, Compass house, Guildford also disclose the number of votes withheld.
If you have already voted by proxy, you will still be able to vote at the Our 2013 Annual Report is available at www.
Meeting and your vote on the day will replace your previously lodged The full Report and individual sections, including this Notice, can be proxy vote.
Whomever you appoint as a proxy can vote or abstain from voting as he or she decides on any other business, which may validly come before the AGM.
This includes proxies appointed using the CREST service.
Details of how to complete the appointment of a proxy either electronically or on paper are given in the notes to this Notice.
Venue arrangements For your personal safety and security, all hand baggage may be subject to examination.
Please note that electronic devices such as cameras and recording equipment may not be brought into the AGM.
A cloakroom will be available to deposit coats and bulky items.
A sign language interpreter will attend the AGM and a sound amplification hearing loop will be available in the meeting room.
Anyone accompanying a Shareholder in need of assistance will be admitted to the AGM.
If any Shareholder with a disability has any question regarding attendance at the AGM, please contact the Group Company Secretariat at Compass Group PLC, Compass house, Guildford Street, Chertsey, Surrey KT16 9BQ by 31 January 2014.
Security staff will be on duty to assist Shareholders.
The Company will not permit behaviour that may interfere with another persons security, safety or the good order of the AGM.
Please ensure that mobile phones are switched off throughout the AGM.
Tea and coffee will be available before the Meeting and light refreshments will be served afterwards.
148 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Shareholder information Forward looking statements Certain information included in this Annual Report and Accounts is forward looking and involves risks, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward looking statements.
Forward looking statements cover all matters which are not historical facts and include, without limitation, projections relating to results of operations and financial conditions and the Companys plans and objectives for future operations, including, without limitation, discussions of expected future revenues, financing plans, expected expenditures and divestments, risks associated with changes in economic conditions, the strength of the food and support services markets in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates, fluctuations in food and other product costs and prices and changes in exchange and interest rates.
Forward looking statements can be identified by the use of forward looking terminology, including terms such as believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, forecasts, intends, plans, projects, goal, target, aim, may, will, would, could or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
Forward looking statements in this Annual Report and Accounts are not guarantees of future performance.
All forward looking statements in this Annual Report and Accounts are based upon information known to the Company on the date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any particular expectation will be met and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward looking statements, which speak only at their respective dates.
Additionally, forward looking statements regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue in the future.
Other than in accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations including under the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts shall exclude any liability under applicable laws that cannot be excluded in accordance with such laws.
13 00,000m 12 00,000m 11 00,000m This Report is printed on a combination of Revive 100 Printed in the UK by Pureprint Group using vegetable White Silk and Revive 100 Premium White Uncoated.
inks and their and printing Revive 100 White Silk is produced using 100% recycled technology.
Pureprint Group is ISO 9001:2000, waste, the pulp is bleached using a Totally Chlorine ISO 14001, EMAS and FSC certified.
Revive 100 Premium White Uncoated is produced using 100% post-consumer The images in this document are representative of the waste, the pulp is bleached using an Elemental services provided by Compass Group PLC and its Chlorine Free ECF process.
Both materials are Forest subsidiaries and partners.
Stewardship Council FSC certified and are produced at mills that hold the ISO 14001 environmental Designed and produced by management standard.
Compass Group PLC Compass House Guildford Street Chertsey Surrey KT16 9BQ United Kingdom Registered in England and Wales No.
