50 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance Governance and Directors Report and available provider, the external Auditor should be excluded from Our standards providing the Company with general consultancy and all other nonThe Company remains committed to the highest standards of business audit and non-tax related services.
Engagements for non-audit services conduct and expects all of its employees to act accordingly.
The that are not prohibited are subject to formal approval by the Audit Groups Speak Up policy an extension of the Code of Ethics now Committee based on the level of fees involved.
Non-audit services incorporated within the Groups Code of Business Conduct which that are pre-approved are either routine in nature with a fee that is was launched in 40 languages during 2011 and is available on the not significant in the context of the audit or are audit related services.
Companys website sets out arrangements for the receipt, in Within the constraints of applicable UK rules, the external Auditor confidence, of complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal controls, undertakes some due diligence reviews and provides assistance on auditing issues and related matters which would, as appropriate, tax matters, given its in-depth knowledge of the Groups business, be reported to the Audit Committee, and Speak Up is a standard review although assistance on these matters is also obtained from other firms.
item on all internal work programmes.
Copies of the Codes of Business The provision of non-audit services within such constraints and the Conduct and Ethics are available on the Companys website at agreed policy is assessed on a case by case basis so that the best www.
The Audit Committee also receives regular placed advisor is retained.
Principal non-audit services approved by the updates on bribery and fraud trends and activity in the business, if Audit Committee during the year ended 30 September 2013 comprised any, at least twice each year with individual updates being given to the provision of assistance on tax matters, IT consultancy services and the Committee, as needed, in more serious cases of alleged bribery, due diligence advice in respect of potential acquisitions.
The Groups anti-fraud policies are a subset of the Code of Business Conduct which does not tolerate any activity During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed Deloitte LLPs fees, involving fraud, dishonesty or deception.
These policies, for which the effectiveness and whether the agreed audit plan had been fulfilled Audit Committee retains overall responsibility, set out how allegations and the reasons for any variation from the plan.
The review included a of fraud or bribery are dealt with, such as by the local human resources formal evaluation together with the use of questionnaires completed by or finance team, and the frequency of local reporting that feeds into finance teams around the Group.
The Audit Committee also considered the regular updates, which are presented to the Audit Committee.
its robustness and the degree to which Deloitte LLP was able to Reporting of these matters to the Audit Committee is managed and assess key accounting and audit judgements and the content of the overseen by internal audit.
The Speak Up policy operates when the management letter issued by the external Auditor.
The Audit Committee complaint is received through the whistleblowing channel and that concluded that both the audit and the audit process were effective.
policy will redirect the alleged fraud or bribery for investigation at the Deloitte LLP also audits significant subsidiaries of the Group.
most appropriate level of the organisation which may, for example, be by a member of the local human resources team or, on occasion, The total fees paid to Deloitte LLP in the year ended 30 September the Audit Committee itself.
2013 were 7.8 million 2012: 6.8 million of which 3.5 million 2012: 2.4 million related to non-audit work.
Further disclosure of the Each year the Audit Committee critically reviews its own performance non-audit fees paid during the year ended 30 September 2013 can be and considers where improvements can be made.
found in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements on page 90.
Internal audit To ensure objectivity, key members of the audit team rotate off the The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit Companys audit.
To safeguard the independence of the Companys function and its relationship with the external Auditor, including internal external Auditor and the integrity of the audit process, the recruitment audit resources, plans and performance as well as the degree to which of senior employees from the Companys Auditor is not permitted for the function is free of management restrictions.
Throughout the year, a period of at least two years after they cease to be involved in the the Audit Committee reviewed the internal audit functions plans and its provision of services to the Company.
The Audit Committee considered the results of the audits undertaken by the internal audit function and Appointment of Auditor considered the adequacy of managements response to matters raised, Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue as Auditor including the time taken to resolve any such matters.
Separate Resolutions proposing its reappointment and determination of its remuneration will be proposed at the AGM Internal control to be held on 6 February 2014.
The Audit Committee also reviews the integrity of material financial Deloitte LLP was appointed as Auditor to the Company on its statements made by the Company.
The Audit Committee monitors incorporation, and is subject to annual reappointment by Shareholders.
and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, Whilst the Company has kept under review the relationship and accounting policies and practices and compliance controls as well as effectiveness of the external Auditor, no formal tender of the audit the Companys statements on internal control before they are agreed process has been carried out since Deloitte LLPs appointment.
The by the Board for each years Annual Report.
The Board retains overall Audit Committee is mindful of the requirements under the Code that responsibility for internal control and the identification and management the Audit should be put out to tender every 10 years and, as confirmed of business risk.
The internal audit function is involved in the assessment in last years Annual Report, it is the Audit Committees intention of the quality of risk management and internal control and helps to to retender the audit during the year ending 30 September 2014. promote and further develop effective risk management within the During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed and approved the business.
Certain internal audit assignments such as those requiring proposed retender process, which commenced during the year ended specialist expertise continue to be outsourced by the Director of Group 30 September 2013.
At the date of this Report extensive due diligence Internal Audit to KPMG LLP as appropriate.
The Audit Committee had been undertaken and a further timetable and step plan to achieve reviews internal audit reports and considers the effectiveness of the completion of the retender exercise by 30 September 2014 had the function.
In a Group where local management have considerable autonomy to run and develop their businesses, a well designed system of internal Disclosure of relevant audit information control is necessary to safeguard Shareholders investments and the The Directors confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no Companys assets.
The Directors acknowledge that they have overall relevant audit information of which Deloitte LLP is unaware and each responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and for Director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a reviewing the effectiveness of those controls.
In accordance with the Director to be aware of any relevant audit information and to establish guidance set out in the Turnbull Report, Internal Control: Guidance for that Deloitte LLP is aware of that information.
Directors on the Combined Code, and in the Code itself, an ongoing
