Consolidated financial statements Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Financial statements 131 36 Details of principal subsidiary companies All companies listed below are wholly owned by the Group, except where otherwise indicated.
All interests are in the ordinary share capital.
All companies operate principally in their country of incorporation.
A full list of the Groups operating subsidiary undertakings are annexed to the annual return each year.
Country of Principal subsidiaries incorporation Principal activities North America Compass Group Canada Ltd Canada Food and support services Bon Apptit Management Co USA Food service Compass Group USA Investments Inc USA holding company Compass Group USA, Inc USA Food and support services Crothall Services Group USA Support services to the healthcare market Flik International Corp USA Fine dining facilities Foodbuy LLC USA Purchasing services in North America Levy Restaurants LP USA Fine dining and food service at sports and entertainment facilities Morrison Management Specialists, Inc USA Food service to the healthcare and senior living market Restaurant Associates Corp USA Fine dining facilities Wolfgang Puck Catering & Events, LLC 90% USA Fine dining facilities Europe & Japan Compass Contract Services UK Ltd England & Wales Food and support services Compass Group holdings PLC England & Wales holding company and corporate activities Compass Group, UK & Ireland Ltd England & Wales holding company Compass Group Procurement Ltd England & Wales Purchasing services throughout the world Compass Purchasing Ltd England & Wales Purchasing services in the UK and Ireland Compass Services UK Ltd England & Wales Food and support services 1 hospitality holdings Ltd England & Wales Intermediate holding company Letheby & Christopher Ltd England & Wales Food service for the UK sports and events market Scolarest Ltd England & Wales Food service for the UK education market vSG Group Ltd England & Wales Security and support services Compass Group France holdings SAS France holding company Compass Group France SAS France Food and support services Compass Group Deutschland Gmbh Germany holding company Medirest Gmbh & Co OhG Germany Food service to the healthcare and senior living market Eurest Deutschland Gmbh Germany Food service to business and industry Eurest Services Gmbh Germany Support services to business and industry Eurest Sports & Food Gmbh Germany Food service to the sports and leisure market Compass Group Italia S. P. A Italy Food service, support services and prepaid meal vouchers Seiyo Food Compass Group, Inc Japan Food and support services Compass Group International Bv Netherlands holding company Compass Group Nederland Bv Netherlands Food and support services Compass Group Nederland holding Bv Netherlands holding company Eurest Services Bv Netherlands Food and support services Compass Group holdings Spain, S. L. Spain holding company Eurest Colectividades S. L. Spain Food and support services Compass Group Schweiz AG Switzerland Food and support services Restorama AG Switzerland Food service Fast Growing & Emerging Compass Group Australia Pty Ltd Australia Food and support services GR SA Brazil Food and support services Compass Group Southern Africa Pty Ltd 97.5% South Africa Food and support services Supercare Services Group Proprietary Limited 97.5% South Africa Support services Sofra yemek retim five hizmet A. S. Turkey Food and support services 1 held directly by the Parent Company.
