Consolidated financial statements Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Financial statements 81 Accounting policies for the year ended 30 September 2013 IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities requires enhanced Introduction disclosures of the nature, risks and financial effects associated with The significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the the Groups interests in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
Groups financial statements are set out below.
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement explains how to measure fair value A Accounting convention and basis of preparation and aims to enhance fair value disclosures.
The standard does not change the measurement of fair value but codifies it in one place.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Amendments to IAS 19 Employee benefits changes a number of Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations disclosure requirements for post-employment arrangements and as adopted by the European Union that are effective for the year restricts the options currently available on how to account for defined ended 30 September 2013.
They have been prepared under the benefit pension plans.
The most significant change that will impact the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain Group is that the amendment requires expected returns on pension financial instruments.
plan assets, currently calculated based on managements expectation of expected returns, to be replaced by a credit on the pension plan The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern assets calculated at the liability discount rate.
This is discussed in the Finance Directors statement on expect that this change will have a material impact on either finance page 44. costs or the Groups net assets.
These amendments will be effective There have been only minor improvements to existing International for the Group in the year ending 30 September 2014.
Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations that are effective IAS 27 revised Separate financial statements for the first time in the current financial year which have been adopted by the Group with no impact on its consolidated results or financial IAS 28 revised Associates and joint ventures position.
In the current financial year, the Group has adopted Amendments to IAS 32 Financial instruments Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements presentation of items of Other Comprehensive Income and Amendments to IAS 12 Amendments to IAS 36 Impairment of assets Income taxes: Deferred tax recovery of underlying assets.
Amendments to IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition Accounting standards, amendments and interpretations and measurement Novation of derivatives and continuation to existing standards that are not yet effective of hedgeaccounting Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations of existing Amendments to IFRS 7 Offsetting financial assets and liabilities standards have been published that, once they have been endorsed by the European Union, will be mandatory for the Groups accounting Improvements to IFRS 2009-2011 Cycle period beginning on 1 October 2013 or for later periods.
The Group has not yet adopted these pronouncements and does not currently believe B Critical accounting policies and use of assumptions that the adoption of these standards, amendments or interpretations and estimates would have a material effect on the consolidated results or financial The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires position of the Group unless stated otherwise.
management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that IFRS 9 Financial instruments not yet endorsed by the European affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and Union removes the multiple classification and measurement models liabilities, income and expenses.
These estimates and assumptions for financial assets required by IAS 39 and introduces a model that are based on historical experience and other factors that are believed has only two classification categories: amortised cost and fair value.
to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ Classification is driven by the business model for managing the from these estimates.
The estimates and assumptions that have a financial assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics of those significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value assets.
The accounting and presentation for financial liabilities and of assets and liabilities in the next financial year are discussed below.
for derecognising financial instruments is relocated from IAS 39 Income taxes without any significant changes.
The Group is currently assessing The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
the impact this standard would have on its consolidated results and Significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide financial position.
provision for income taxes as there are many transactions and IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements replaces the guidance calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain of control and consolidation in IAS 27 Consolidated and separate during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises financial statements and SIC 12 Consolidation special purpose liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
The core principle that a consolidated entity presents a Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the parent and its subsidiaries as if they were a single entity remains amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact unchanged, as do the mechanics of consolidation.
the results for the year and the respective income tax and deferred tax provisions in the year in which such determination is made.
IFRS 11 Joint arrangements requires joint arrangements to be accounted for as a joint operation or as a joint venture depending Goodwill upon the rights and obligations of each party to the arrangement.
The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any Proportionate consolidation for joint ventures will be eliminated impairment in accordance with the accounting policy set out in and equity accounting will be compulsory.
It is anticipated that the section M. The recoverable amounts of cash generating units application of the standard which is expected to be effective for the CGU have been determined based on value in use calculations.
Group in the year ending 30 September 2015 will result in a decrease to Group revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities but will have no impact on the Groups net profit or net assets.
Details of the Groups joint venture arrangements are set out in note 15.
82 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Accounting policies for the year ended 30 September 2013 These calculations require the use of estimates and assumptions E Acquisitions consistent with the most up to date budgets and plans that have been The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase formally approved by management.
The key assumptions used for the method.
The cost of acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the value in use calculations are set out in note 10 to the financial statements.
fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred Post-employment benefits or assumed, and equity instruments issued.
Defined benefit schemes are reappraised annually by independent Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities actuaries based on actuarial assumptions.
Significant judgement assumed are recognised at the fair values at the acquisition date, is required in determining these actuarial assumptions.
The principal except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified assumptions used are described in note 23 to the financial statements.
as held for sale which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
C Basis of consolidation The cost of the acquisition in excess of the Groups interest in the The consolidated financial statements consist of the financial net fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as statements of the Company, entities controlled by the Company goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the its subsidiaries and the Groups share of interests in joint ventures and net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised associates made up to 30 September each year.
directly in the income statement.
D Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures F Foreign currency Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements are prepared in Sterling, Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern which is the functional currency of the Company.
the financial and operating policies.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered In preparing the financial statements of individual companies within when assessing control.
the Group, transactions in currencies other than pounds Sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange on the dates of the transaction.
Associates At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are Associates are undertakings that are not subsidiaries or joint ventures denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates on over which the Group has significant influence and can participate the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation in financial and operating policy decisions.
Investments in associated are included in the income statement for the period, except for where undertakings are accounted for using the equity method.
The they arise on items taken directly to other comprehensive income, consolidated income statement includes the Groups share of the profit in which case they are also recognised in the consolidated statement after tax of the associated undertakings.
Investments in associates of comprehensive income.
include goodwill identified on acquisition and are carried in the Group balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in value.
the Group enters into forward currency contracts see section Q for the Groups accounting policies in respect of derivative Joint ventures financialinstruments.
Joint ventures are entities in which the Group holds an interest on a long term basis and which are jointly controlled by the Group and On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas other venturers under a contractual agreement.
The Groups share operations expressed in their functional currencies, being the is accounted for using the proportionate consolidation method.
currency of the primary economic environment in which each entity The consolidated income statement and balance sheet include the operates are translated at the exchange rates on the balance sheet Groups share of the income, expenses, assets and liabilities.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, if any, Adjustments are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to bring the accounting or expense in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
policies used in line with those used by the Group.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of Acquisitions and disposals a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign The results of subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures acquired or entity and translated at the closing rate.
disposed of during the period are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective G Revenue date of disposal, as appropriate.
Revenue is recognised in the period in which services are provided Intra-group transactions in accordance with the terms of the contractual relationships with All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are third parties.
Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration eliminated on consolidation.
Where a Group subsidiary transacts received or receivable for goods and services provided in the normal with a joint venture of the Group, profits or losses are eliminated course of business, excluding trade discounts, value added tax and to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant joint venture.
Management fee contracts Revenue from management fee contracts comprises the total of sales made to consumers, the subsidy charged to clients, together with the management fee charged to clients.
Consolidated financial statements Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Financial statements 83 Fixed price contracts Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary Revenue from fixed price contracts is recognised in proportion differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, to the volume of services that the Group is contracted to supply and interest in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control in each period.
the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Inter-segmental transactions There is little or no intra-group trading between the reported business The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each segments.
Where such trading does take place it is on similar terms balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer and conditions to those available to third parties.
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
H Rebates and other amounts received Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply from suppliers in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised.
Rebates and other amounts received from suppliers include agreed Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when discounts from suppliers list prices, and value and volume-related rebates.
they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction and the Income from value and volume-related rebates is recognised based on Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on actual purchases in the period as a proportion of total purchases made a net basis.
or forecast to be made over the rebate period.
M Intangible assets Agreed discounts relating to inventories are credited to the income Goodwill statement as the goods are consumed.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost Rebates relating to items purchased but still held at the balance sheet of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable date are deducted from the carrying value of these items so that the assets and liabilities of the acquired subsidiary, associate or joint venture cost of inventories is recorded net of applicable rebates.
at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and is carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Rebates received in respect of plant and equipment are deducted from the costs capitalised.
Goodwill is allocated to each CGU for the purpose of impairment testing.
A CGU is identified at the lowest aggregation of assets that I Borrowing costs generate largely independent cash inflows, and that which is looked Borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the acquisition, at by management for monitoring and managing the business.
This is construction or production of a qualifying asset are capitalised as generally the total business for a country.
however, in some instances part of the cost of that asset.
where there are distinct, separately managed business activities within a country, particularly if they fall within different secondary business J Operating profit segments, the CGU is identified at this lower level.
Operating profit is stated before the share of results of associates, If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying investment revenue and finance costs.
amount, an impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other K Exceptional items assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each Exceptional items are disclosed and described separately in the asset in the unit.
Any impairment is immediately recognised in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further income statement and an impairment loss recognised for goodwill understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
They are is not subsequently reversed.
material items of income or expense that have been shown separately On disposal, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the due to the significance of their nature or amount.
determination of the gain or loss on disposal.
L Tax Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject recognised in the income statement except where it relates to items to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to taken directly to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated or equity, in which case it is recognised in the consolidated statement and is not included in determining any subsequent gain or loss of comprehensive income or equity as appropriate.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for Other intangible assets the period, using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost or, if enacted by the balance sheet date.
acquired as part of a business combination, are capitalised at fair value as at the date of the acquisition.
Internally generated intangible Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, assets are not capitalised.
Amortisation is charged on a straight-line providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of basis over the expected useful lives of the assets.
assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for tax purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
84 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Accounting policies for the year ended 30 September 2013 The following rates applied for the Group: Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at the proceeds received, net of contract-related intangible assets: the life of the contract direct issue costs.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised computer software: 6% to 33% per annum cost: any difference between the proceeds net of direct issue costs The typical life of contract related intangibles is 2 to 20 years.
and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method, Contract-related intangible assets arising on acquisition of a business unless included in a fair value hedge.
are recognised at fair value and amortised over the life of the contract.
Underlying operating profit and underlying earnings per share exclude Equity instruments the amortisation of contract related intangible assets arising on Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the acquisition of a business as it is not considered to be relevant to proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
the underlying trading performance of the Group.
Liabilities in respect of option agreements Option agreements that allow minority Shareholders to require the N Property, plant and equipment Group to purchase the minority interest are treated as derivatives All tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment when there are over equity instruments.
These are recorded in the balance sheet indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Freehold at fair value which is re-evaluated at each period end.
Fair value land is not depreciated.
All other property, plant and equipment assets is based on the present value of expected cash outflows.
The are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised movement in fair value is recognised as income or expense within impairment in value.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the anticipated Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting useful lives of the assets.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge the risks The following rates applied for the Group: associated with changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
freehold buildings and long term leasehold property: 2% per annum Such derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value short term leasehold property: the life of the lease on the contract date and are remeasured to fair value at subsequent plant and machinery: 8% to 33% per annum reporting dates.
fixtures and fittings: 8% to 33% per annum The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies When assets are sold, the difference between sales proceeds and the approved by the Board of Directors that provide written principles carrying amount of the assets is dealt with in the income statement.
on the use of financial derivatives consistent with the Groups risk management strategy.
The Group does not use derivative financial O Assets held for sale instruments for speculative purposes.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference if the carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is determined by only when the sale is highly probable, management is committed to reference to market values for similar instruments.
a sale plan, the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition and the sale is expected to be completed within one year For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either from the date of classification.
These assets are measured at the fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
fair value of a recognised asset or liability: or cash flow hedges where they hedge the exposure to variability in cash flows that is either P Inventories attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost or liability or a forecasted transaction.
is calculated using either the weighted average price or the first in, first In relation to fair value hedges interest rate swaps which meet the out method as appropriate to the circumstances.
Net realisable value is conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from remeasuring the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately in the applicable variable selling expenses.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the Q Financial instruments hedged item and recognised in the income statement.
Where the Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups adjustment is to the carrying amount of a hedged interest-bearing balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual financial instrument, the adjustment is amortised to the net profit provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets and liabilities, including and loss such that it is fully amortised by maturity.
derivative financial instruments, denominated in foreign currencies are When fair value hedge accounting is discontinued, any adjustment translated into Sterling at period end exchange rates.
Gains and losses to the carrying amount of the hedged item for the designated risk are dealt with through the income statement, unless hedge accounting for interest-bearing financial instruments is amortised to profit or loss, treatment is available.
with amortisation commencing no later than when the hedged item Cash and cash equivalents ceases to be adjusted.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and The Groups policy is to convert a proportion of its floating rate debt short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
to fixed rates, using floating to fixed interest rate swaps.
The Group designates these as cash flow hedges of interest rate risk.
Consolidated financial statements Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Financial statements 85 In relation to cash flow hedges forward currency contracts to hedge For defined benefit pension schemes, the cost of providing benefits firm commitments which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity and the gains and losses are recognised immediately in the consolidated ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
When the hedged firm commitment results in the recognition of an Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the asset or liability, then at the time the asset or liability is recognised, benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straightthe associated gains or losses that had previously been recognised line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
in equity are included in the initial measurement of the acquisition The pension obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents cost and carrying amount of the asset or liability.
For all other cash flow the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value to the income statement in the same period in which the hedged firm of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited commitment affects the net profit and loss, for example, when the to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and future sale actually occurs.
reductions in future contributions to the plan.
For derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge Other post-employment obligations accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value Some Group companies provide other post-employment benefits.
are taken directly to the income statement in the period.
The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument of employment using a similar basis to that used for defined benefit expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for pension schemes.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on immediately in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity until the Share-based payments forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer The Group issues equity settled and cash settled share-based expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity payments to certain employees.
In accordance with the requirements is transferred to the income statement in the period.
of IFRS 2 Share-based payment, the Group has applied IFRS 2 to all equity-settled share options granted after 7 November 2002 that R Leases vested before 1 January 2005.
Equity-settled share-based payments Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non market-based lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value, determined the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments, is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the on the Groups estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as Fair value is measured using either the binomial distribution or a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between Black-Scholes pricing models as is most appropriate for each finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve scheme.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
based on managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to income on For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability equal to the portion a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Any incentives to enter of the goods or services received is recognised at the current fair into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the value determined at each balance sheet date.
Holiday pay S Provisions Paid holidays and similar entitlements are regarded as an employee benefit and are charged to the income statement as the benefits are Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation earned.
An accrual is made at the balance sheet date to reflect the fair as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be value of holidays earned but not taken.
required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the cost of settling these liabilities and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
T Employee benefits Pension obligations Payments made to defined contribution pension schemes are charged as an expense when they fall due.
Payments made to state-managed schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the Groups obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution pension scheme.
