Corporate governance Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance 61 Closed incentive plans Share ownership guidelines The LTIP described in the table on pages 59 and 60 is the primary In order that their interests are linked with those of Shareholders, form of equity incentive for Executive Directors.
Some share incentive Directors are expected to build up and maintain a personal Awards remain extant which were awarded to Executive Directors prior shareholding in the Company.
to 2010 under the Compass Group Long Term Incentive Plan the Under the guidelines, the Group Chief Executive is required to former LTIP.
Under the former LTIP, Executives received a conditional hold a personal shareholding equal to the value of twice his base Award of shares of up to an annual maximum of 200% of base salary salary.
Other Executive Directors are required to hold a personal which would vest after a single three year performance period, subject shareholding equal to the value of one and a half times their base to the achievement of stretching performance conditions.
50% of any salary, and members of the Executive Board equal to the value of Award made under the former LTIP was based on Adjusted FCF and their base salary.
Non-Executive Directors are required to hold a 50% on the Companys TSR.
Further details of the former LTIP may personal shareholding equal to the value of their base fee.
be found in the 2010 Annual Report.
Details of the number of existing Awards held by Executive Directors under the former LTIP are included For Executive Directors, the guideline shareholding may be in the table on page 68. achieved by retaining shares received as a result of participating in the Companys share plans.
The guidance specifically excludes the need to make a personal investment should Awards not vest.
Dilution limits Non-Executive Directors are expected to purchase shares equating All of the Companys equity based incentive plans incorporate the to a minimum value of one third of their net of tax fee each year until current ABI Guidelines on headroom which provide that overall dilution the guideline is met.
The required level of shareholding is expected under all plans should not exceed 10% over a 10 year period in relation to be achieved within a four year period, commencing on 1 October to the Companys issued share capital or reissue of treasury shares, 2010 or on date of appointment, if later.
with a further limitation of 5% in any 10 year period for Executive plans.
If the guideline is not met within this timeframe, then the Committee The Committee regularly monitors the position and prior to the making will discuss with the Director a plan to ensure that the guideline of any Award considers the effect of potential vesting of options or is met over an acceptable timeframe.
The granting of future LTIP share Awards to ensure that the Company remains within these limits.
Awards to an Executive Director will be conditional upon reaching Any Awards which are required to be satisfied by market purchased the appropriate threshold in the required timeframe.
shares are excluded from such calculations.
No treasury shares were Details of the interests of Directors in shares and equity incentives held or utilised in the year ended 30 September 2013. are set out on page 69 together with the extent to which each of the As at 30 September 2013, the Companys headroom position, Directors has complied with the guidelines as at 30 September 2013. which remains within current ABI Guidelines, was as shown in the charts below: 10% in 10 years 5% in 10 years 3 4 1 1 3 2 2 1 4.69% headroom 1 1.75% headroom 2 2.39% Discretionary options 2 2.39% Discretionary options 3 0.86% LTIP 3 0.86% LTIP 4 2.06% All-employee
