Corporate governance Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance 51 process has been established for identifying, managing and evaluating comments on the control environment within their operations.
The the risks faced by the Group.
This process has been in place for the Group Finance Director summarises these submissions for the Audit full financial year and up to the date on which the financial statements Committee and the Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the were approved.
Board on any matters that have arisen from the Audit Committees review of the way in which risk management and internal control The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the processes have been applied.
risk of failure to achieve the Groups strategic objectives, safeguard the Groups assets against material loss, fairly report the Groups The Board has formal procedures in place for approval of client performance and position and to ensure compliance with relevant contracts, capital investment and acquisition projects, with clearly legislation, regulation and best practice including that related to social, designated levels of authority, supported by post investment review environmental and ethical matters.
The systems provide reasonable, processes for selected acquisitions and major capital expenditure.
but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board considers social, environmental and ethical matters Such systems are reviewed by the Board to deal with changing in relation to the Groups business and assesses these when circumstances.
reviewing the risks faced by the Group: further information regarding environmental and ethical matters is available on pages 20 to 25.
The A summary of the key financial risks inherent in the Groups business Board is conscious of the effect such matters may have on the short is given on pages 38 and 39.
Risk assessment and evaluation are an and long term value of the Company.
The external Auditor of the integral part of the annual planning cycle.
Each business documents Company and the Director of Group Internal Audit attend Audit the strategic objectives and the effectiveness of the Groups systems Committee meetings and receive its papers.
The Report of the Audit of internal control.
As part of the review, each significant business and Committee is set out on pages 49 and 50 and the Audit Committee function has been required to identify and document each substantial members meet regularly with the Director of Group Internal Audit and risk, together with the mitigating actions implemented to manage, the external Auditor without the presence of executive management.
monitor and report to management on the effectiveness of these controls.
Senior managers are also required to sign biannual There were no changes to the Companys internal control over confirmations of compliance with key procedures and to report any financial reporting that occurred during the year ended 30 September breakdowns in, or exceptions to, these procedures.
Summarised 2013 that have affected materially, or are reasonably likely to affect results have been presented to senior management including to the materially, the Companys internal control over financial reporting.
Executive Board and to the Board.
These processes have been in Communicating with Shareholders place throughout the financial year ended 30 September 2013 and have continued to the date of this Report.
The Board has reviewed The Company places considerable importance on communication the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for the year with its Shareholders, including its private Shareholders.
The Group under review and a summary of the principal control structures and Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director are closely involved in processes in place across the Group is set out in this Report.
investor relations and a Senior Executive has day-to-day responsibility for such matters.
The views of the Companys major Shareholders are Control environment reported to the Board by the Group Chief Executive and the Group Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of Finance Director as well as by the Chairman who remains in contact internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, it has delegated with the 10 largest Shareholders and are discussed at its meetings.
responsibility for the operation of the internal control and risk There is regular dialogue with institutional Shareholders and this has management programme to the Executive Board.
The detailed review been extended to include private Shareholders through the AGM of internal control has been delegated to the Audit Committee.
The and meetings with the United Kingdom Shareholders Association.
management of each business is responsible for internal control and Contact with institutional Shareholders and with financial analysts, risk management within its own business and for ensuring compliance brokers and the media is controlled by written guidelines to ensure with the Groups policies and procedures.
Each business has the protection of share price sensitive information that has not already appointed a risk champion whose primary role in such capacity is been made generally available to the Companys Shareholders.
to ensure compliance by local management with the Groups risk Contact is also maintained, when appropriate, with Shareholders management and internal control programme.
The internal and the to discuss overall remuneration plans and policies.
external independent auditors have reviewed the overall approach adopted by the Group towards its risk management activities so as The primary method of communication with Shareholders is by to reinforce these internal control requirements.
electronic means, helping to make the Company more environmentally friendly by reducing waste and pollution associated with the printing Control procedures and posting of its Annual Report.
The Annual Report and Accounts is available to all Shareholders and can be accessed via the The Board reviews its strategic plans and objectives on an annual basis Companys website at www.
The Groups and approves Group budgets and strategies in light of these.
Control annual and interim results are also published on the Companys is exercised at Group, regional and business level through the Groups website, together with all other announcements and documents Management and Performance MAP framework and monthly issued to the market, such as trading updates, interim management monitoring of performance by comparison with budgets, forecasts and statements, interviews and presentations by the Group Chief cash targets, and by regular visits to Group businesses by the Group Executive and Group Finance Director.
Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
The Notice of AGM is circulated to all Shareholders at least 20 working This is underpinned by a formal major risk assessment process which days prior to such meeting and it is Company policy not to combine is an integral part of the annual business cycle.
Each of the Groups resolutions to be proposed at general meetings.
All Shareholders are businesses is required to identify and document major risks facing their invited to the Companys AGM at which they have the opportunity to business and appropriate mitigating activities and controls, and monitor put questions to the Board and it is standard practice to have the and report to management on the effectiveness of these controls on a Chairmen of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Nomination and biannual basis.
These reports, together with reports on internal control Remuneration Committees available to answer questions.
The results and departures, if any, from established Group procedures prepared of proxy voting for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions, by both the internal and external auditors, are reviewed by the Group are announced to the London Stock Exchange and are published on Finance Director and the Audit Committee.
Group companies also the Companys website shortly after the meeting.
Further Shareholder submit biannual risk and internal control assurance letters to the Group information is available on pages 139 to 148.
Finance Director on internal control and risk management issues, with
