140 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Shareholder information Shareholder information Registrar Cash dividends All matters relating to the administration of shareholdings in the The Company normally pays a dividend twice each year.
Company should be directed to Capita Asset Services, The Registry, We encourage UK resident ordinary Shareholders to elect to 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU: telephone within the have their dividends paid directly into their bank or building society UK: Freephone 0800 280 2545 and from overseas: 44 20 7763 0041: account.
This is a more secure method of payment and avoids email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
delays or the cheques being lost.
Ordinary Shareholders resident outside the UK can also have any dividends in excess of 10 paid Shareholders can register online to view their Compass Group PLC into their bank account directly via Capita Asset Services global shareholding details using the Share Portal, a service offered by payments service.
Details and terms and conditions may be viewed Capita Asset Services the Registrar, at www.
Shareholders registering for the Share Portal will require their investor code which is shown on share certificates.
The service enables Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP Shareholders to: A DRIP service is provided by Capita IRG Trustees Limited.
check their shareholdings in Compass Group PLC 24 hours a day The DRIP allows eligible Shareholders to use the whole of their gain easy access to a range of shareholder information including cash dividend to buy additional shares in the Company, thereby indicative valuation and payment instruction details increasing their shareholding.
Additional information, including use the Internet to appoint a proxy to attend general meetings of details of how to sign up, can be obtained from the Companys Compass Group PLC website at www.
com and from Capita IRG Trustees Limited, telephone within the UK: Freephone 0800 280 2545 and from Electronic communications overseas: 44 20 7763 0041: email: shares@capitaregistrars.
The Companys Annual Report and all other shareholder The latest date for receipt of new applications to participate communications can be found on our website.
The Company can, in respect of the 2013 final dividend is 30 January 2014. at Shareholders request, send Shareholders an email notification each time a new shareholder report or other shareholder communication Share price information is placed on our website.
This enables Shareholders to read and or The current price of the Companys shares is available on the download the information at their leisure.
There are no particular Companys website at www.
This is supplied software requirements to view these documents, other than those with a 15 minute delay to real time.
The provision of a facility to communicate with Shareholders Share dealing electronically does not discriminate between registered Shareholders The Companys shares can be traded through most banks, building of the same class.
The facility is available to all registered Shareholders societies, stockbrokers or share shops.
In addition, the Companys on equal terms and participation is made as simple as possible.
Please Registrar, Capita Asset Services, offers online and telephone dealing note that it is the Shareholders responsibility to notify the Registrar services to buy or sell Compass Group PLC shares.
The service is through www.
com or by post of any change only available to private Shareholders aged 18 or over, resident in to their email address.
Before electing for electronic communication, the UK, EEA, Channel Islands or the Isle of Man.
Full details can be Shareholders should ensure that they have the appropriate computer obtained from www.
com or by telephoning within the UK: capabilities.
The Company takes all reasonable precautions to ensure Freephone 0800 280 2545. no viruses are present in any communication it sends out, but cannot accept any responsibility for loss or damage arising from the opening ShareGift or use of any email or attachments from the Company and recommends ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme, is a free service for that Shareholders subject all messages to virus checking procedures Shareholders wishing to give shares to charitable causes.
Please note that any electronic communication sent by a particularly useful for those Shareholders who may wish to dispose Shareholder to the Company or the Registrar containing a computer of a small quantity of shares where the market value makes it virus will not be accepted.
uneconomic to sell on a commission basis.
Further information can be obtained from ShareGifts website at www.
org, telephone The Companys obligation is satisfied when it transmits an electronic message.
It cannot be held responsible for a failure in transmission within the UK: 020 7930 3737 and from overseas: 44 20 7930 3737, or from the Registrar.
In the event that the Company becomes aware that an electronic transmission is not successful, a paper notification will American Depositary Receipts be sent to the Shareholder at their registered address.
Shareholders wishing to continue to receive shareholder information in the traditional BNy Mellon BNy maintains the Companys American Depositary paper format should confirm this via www.
If you have any enquiries about your holding write to Capita Asset Services.
of Compass American Depositary shares, you should contact BNy Mellon, Shareowner Services, PO Box 358516, Pittsburgh, Published information PA 15252-8516, USA.
Further information can be found on BNys If you would like to receive a hard copy of this Report or a copy in an website at www.
com using the symbol CMPGy and on the Companys website at www.
alternative format such as large print, Braille or an audio version on CD, please contact the Group Company Secretariat at the Companys Unsolicited mail registered office.
A copy can also be downloaded from our website at www.
We are legally obliged to make our register of members available to the public, subject to a proper purpose test.
As a consequence of this some Shareholders might receive unsolicited mail.
Shareholders wishing to limit the amount of such mail should write to the Mailing Preference Service, FREEPOST 29 LON20771, London W1E 0ZT.
Shareholders can also register online at www.
uk or request an application form by calling from within the UK: 0845 703 4599 or by email to mps@dma.
Shareholder information Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Shareholder information 141 If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Identity theft Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
Advice on protecting your Compass Group PLC shares: Financial calendar Keep all Compass correspondence in a safe place, or destroy correspondence by shredding Ex-dividend date for 2013 final dividend When changing address, inform the Registrar, Capita Asset 22 January 2014 Services.
If a letter from Capita Asset Services is received Record date for 2013 final dividend regarding a change of address and you have not moved, contact 24 January 2014 the Registrar immediately Consider having your dividends paid directly into your bank or 2014 Annual General Meeting building society account.
This will reduce the risk of the cheque 6 February 2014 being intercepted or lost in the post.
you can complete a 2013 final dividend payment Request for Payment of Interest or Dividends Form available 24 February 2014 from www.
com and send it to the Registrar or register online at www.
com shareholders using Half year financial results the Share Portal service.
Additional information can be obtained 14 May 2014 from the Registrar Ex-dividend date for 2014 interim dividend On changing your bank or building society account, inform the 25 June 2014 Registrar of the details of the new account and respond to any letters Capita Asset Services send you about this Record date for 2014 interim dividend When buying or selling shares deal only with brokers registered 27 June 2014 in your country of residence or the UK 2014 interim dividend payment 28 July 2014 Warning about share fraud Provisional dates Fraudsters use persuasive and high pressure tactics to lure investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an upfront payment.
Whilst high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way, you will probably lose your money.
Around 5,000 people contact the Financial Conduct Authority FCA about share fraud each year, with victims losing an average of 20,000.
Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to contact you out of the blue with an offer to buy or sell shares.
Do not get into a conversation.
Note the name of the person and firm contacting you and then end the call.
Check the Financial Services Register at www.
uk to see if the person and firm contacting you is authorised by the FCA.
Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, copying its website or giving you false contact details.
Use the firms contact details listed on the Register if you want to call it back.
Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have contact details on the Register or if you are told they are out of date.
Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at www.
Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised firm you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Think about getting independent financial and professional advice before you hand over any money.
Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
Report a scam If you are approached by fraudsters, please tell the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams, where you can find out more about investment scams, or call the FCA Consumer helpline on 0800 111 6768.
