Corporate governance Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance 55 Directors Remuneration Report Annual statement Introduction Perspective On behalf of your Board, I am pleased to present our Directors In retrospect and looking ahead, the Companys Remuneration Policy Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2013. has been and will continue to be uncomplicated, performance related Shareholders will be invited to approve both our Remuneration Policy and retention focused.
for the year ending 30 September 2014 and beyond which will be a Our objective is to ensure that there is stability in our Remuneration binding vote and the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year Policy and that it is aligned with the business strategy.
Our policy has ended 30 September 2013 which will be a non-binding advisory vote, remained fundamentally unchanged since last year and it is envisaged which together comprise the Directors Remuneration Report, at the that the remuneration elements for Executive Directors for the year Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 6 February 2014. ending 30 September 2014 will be very similar to those in place for The two sections of the Report cover the following matters: the financial year ended 30 September 2013. the Companys intended Executive Remuneration Strategy and The Company has delivered another strong financial performance Policy from 6 February 2014 until 30 September 2014 and beyond, this year driven by the Executive Directors and the senior including each of the components of Directors remuneration management team against the backdrop of a challenging economic the Policy Report environment in some of the Groups geographies.
The delivery of how the Policy has been implemented in the year ended an underlying operating margin of over 7% for the first time reflects 30 September 2013 the Annual Remuneration Report managements focus on growing revenue in a sustainable and profitable manner, mirrored in the use of revenue and profit as key This Directors Remuneration Report has been prepared on behalf measures in our annual bonus plan.
This strong financial performance of the Board by the Remuneration Committee the Committee in of the Group is reflected in the variable pay awarded to the Executive accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Directors, none of whom received any increase in their base pay and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts during the year, recognising the tough economic environment.
and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 Regulations.
Save for the total shareholder return graph, Group Chief Executives remuneration Cash flow generation is critical to the success of our business in terms history and remuneration percentage change tables, spend on pay of both returns to Shareholders and investments for growth and table, statement of Shareholder voting and details of advice provided consequently is included as a performance measure in both our long to the Committee, the information set out on pages 55 to 70 of this and short term incentive plans.
We have been able to reward both Directors Remuneration Report represents the auditable disclosures Shareholders and our Executive Directors for the excellent referred to in the Auditors report on pages 73 and 74 as specified by performance in this area during the last 12 months.
We were delighted the UK Listing Authority and the Regulations.
at Shareholders strong endorsement of the inclusion of Return on Capital Employed ROCE in The Compass Group PLC Long Term The Committee Incentive Plan 2010 LTIP as this has brought more alignment in our incentive plans on the reinvestment of cash to help the business grow The Board sets the Companys Remuneration Policy and the and for infill acquisitions.
In addition, the inclusion of health, Safety Committee is responsible, within the authority delegated by the Board, and Environment hSE measures in our annual bonus plan for all our for determining specific remuneration packages and the terms and leadership team globally has highlighted the importance of this key conditions of employment for the members of the Executive Board, business metric.
which comprises the Executive Directors and other Senior Executives.
The Committee ensures that the members of the Executive Board Overall, we believe that our policy is structured so that the Executive are provided with the appropriate incentives to enhance the Groups Directors are fairly rewarded, with the aim to keep reward at or around performance and to reward them for their personal contribution median, in line with appropriate benchmarks for the markets in which to the success of the business.
The Committee reviews the Compass operates.
This approach to remuneration has served remuneration arrangements for Group employees whose salaries Shareholders well, as whilst we have been able to attract, retain and exceed a specified level and administers the Companys share incentive motivate the best people in a competitive marketplace, at the same plans.
The Committee also determines the Chairmans remuneration, time we have delivered a total return to our Shareholders of 455% although the Board itself determines the level of fees paid to the since 2005, well above the 66% for the FTSE 100 as a whole.
No Directors are involved in determining their own remuneration.
The Committee maintains an active dialogue with Shareholder representatives and its full Terms of Reference are set out on the Companys website at www.
56 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance Directors Remuneration Report Summary of activity during the year Membership of the Committee The key activities of the Committee during the year ended The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive 30 September 2013 were: Directors, as defined in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
On 9 April 2013 James Crosby stepped down from the annual review of remuneration philosophy Board and ceased to be the Chairman of the Committee.
On 10 April annual review of the Companys remuneration practice to ensure 2013 Sir Ian Robinson succeeded James Crosby as Chairman of the that the overall remuneration structure continues to promote the Committee.
During the year the Committee comprised the following Companys business strategy Non-Executive Directors: determination of the remuneration packages for the Executive Directors and the current Chairman as well as for the incoming John Bason Chairman James Crosby Chairman, Senior Independent Director to 9 April 2013 determination of the extent to which the performance measures for Susan Murray the long term incentive and bonus plans were achieved including Don Robert the treatment of the exceptional costs of the European restructuring Sir Ian Robinson Chairman, Senior Independent Director from programme as well as the agreement of the changed performance 10 April 2013 criteria for the LTIP, following consultation with and approval by Biographical details of the current members of the Committee are set Shareholders out on pages 8 and 9.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary Each year the Committee reviews the ongoing remuneration philosophy acts as the Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee met on four and trends for all employees across the Group.
The current Chairmans occasions during the year and attendance details are shown in the pay and benefits and the Executive Directors reward packages were table on page 47. reviewed.
In addition, the fees of the incoming Chairman were also Details of advisors to the Committee can be found on page 70. carefully considered and determined.
The performance targets of the Companys bonus and share incentive plans were considered and, Engagement as a consequence, the personal performance element of the annual The voting outcome at the 7 February 2013 AGM in respect of the bonus was removed for the year ended 30 September 2013 and a new Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September hSE improvement target put in place, representing 5% of the bonus 2012 is set out on page 70 and reflected very strong individual and opportunity.
Further details are given in the Policy Report on pages 57 institutional Shareholder support of the Companys Remuneration to 64.
Shareholder approval was sought and obtained at the AGM on Policy and its implementation.
7 February 2013 to amend the performance targets under the LTIP.
Details of the mechanics of the LTIP and the amended performance The Committee will continue to be mindful of the concerns of targets are given in the Policy Report on pages 59 and 60 and are in Shareholders and other stakeholders, and welcomes Shareholder line with the proposals noted in last years Report.
The Committee also feedback on any issue related to Executive remuneration.
considered the headroom available in issued share capital before the In conclusion, we believe that our Remuneration Policy continues making of equity incentive awards, approved the vesting of awards, to be aligned with our strategic goal of delivering Shareholder value.
considered the extent to which the Directors had complied with the Companys share ownership guidelines as set out on page 69, reviewed and discussed developments in best practice and engaged with Shareholder representatives and advisory bodies including consultation on the format of this Directors Remuneration Report.
The proportion of time spent by the Committee on key items during the year ended 30 September 2013 is summarised in the charts below: Sir Ian Robinson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Agenda activity Agenda activity by items 27 November 2013 6 1 2 5 1 4 2 3 1 67% Regular items 1 Determination of the remuneration packages for Executive Directors and Chairman 2 Review and operation of the Groups equity incentive plans 3 Review of Group wide remuneration philosophy validation and audit of Directors share ownership guidelines compliance 4 Determination of remuneration packages for the incoming Chairman and other senior executives below the Board 2 33% Other items 5 Consideration of new BIS remuneration regulations and review and approval of Directors Remuneration Report 6 Any other business
