OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION 19 REDUCING NET DEBT AND INTRODUCING THIRD PARTY CAPITAL Group net debt fell by 631 million, or 30 per cent, during 2013 to 1,459 million at 31 December while look-through net debt, incorporating our share of debt in joint ventures, was 499 million lower at 1,889 million.
achieve this through selling assets and from capital value uplifts from development and active management of standing assets.
JUSTIN READ We will balance our objective to reduce gearing at the GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR right time in the cycle with the desire to take advantage of attractive growth opportunities that might arise.
Where such opportunities arise before disposals, our The creation of SELP represents LTVratio may rise temporarily.
After the year-end, we exchanged contracts to acquire a animportant milestone in our 472 million portfolio of Continental European bigbox objective of using third party capital logistics assets and land within SELP.
SEGROs 50 per cent share of the equity and debt will increase our tonance growth and improve our look-through LTV by around 2.5 percentage points.
Funding an acquisition of this size ourselves would have been difficult to justify from a balance sheet perspective, so it is a good example of how we can partner with third The reduction in net debt was achieved through net party capital to build critical mass in our core markets divestments disposals less acquisitions and development without placing excessive strain on our capital structure.
expenditure of 342 million, and through the creation of the SEGRO European Logistics Partnership SELP.
We provide more details of the creation of SELP on page28.
SELP represents an important milestone in our objective of restructuring our capital base by attracting third party capital.
On completion of the joint venture, we received 429 million of net cash proceeds and deferred an additional 131 million for up to two years at an annual coupon of 7 per cent to mitigate part of the dilutive earnings impact from the creation of the joint venture.
The combination of the net divestment, the SELP transaction and the value uplift of our properties reduced our look-through LTV ratio including our share of joint ventures net debt and the deferred consideration to 42 per cent at 31 December 2013 from 51 per cent a year earlier.
The reduction of our LTV ratio to around 40 per cent remains our longer term target, because we continue to believe that REITs with lower leverage offer a lower-risk investment proposition for shareholders.
We expect to SAINSBURYS, GREENFORD
