102 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS OF PREPARATION The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with EU Endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, IFRIC Interpretations, and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore the Groups financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
In addition, the Group has also followed best practice recommendations issued by the European Public Real Estate Association EPRA as appropriate.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
This is discussed in the Financial Review on page 54.
The Directors have taken advantage of the exemption offered by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present a separate income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the Company.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of properties, available-for-sale investments and certain financial assets and liabilities including derivatives.
These financial statements are presented in sterling since that is the currency in which the majority of the Groups transactions are denominated.
In the current financial year the Group has adopted the amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income, IAS 19 revised Employment Benefits and IFRS13 Fair Value Measurement.
The amendments to IAS 1 require items of other comprehensive income to be grouped by those items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss and those that will never be reclassified as well as their associated income tax.
The amendments have been applied retrospectively, and hence the presentation of items of comprehensive income has been re-grouped to reflect the change.
IAS 19 revised 2011 and the related consequential amendments have impacted the accounting for the Groups defined benefit scheme, by replacing the interest cost and expected return on plan assets with a net interest charge on the net defined liability.
For the current period the profit was 0.6 million lower and other comprehensive income was 0.6 million higher than it would have been prior to the adoption of IAS 19.
As the Group has always recognised actuarial gains losses immediately, there has been no effect on the prior year defined benefit obligation.
The comparative period has not been restated as the impact of adopting IAS 19 revised 2011 is not considered material.
IFRS 13 has impacted the measurement criteria of fair value for certain assets and liabilities and also introduced new disclosures as set out in Note 15.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements: IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements: IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities: IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements: IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures: IFRIC 21 Levies: Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Investment entities: Amendments to IAS 19 Nov 2013 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions: Amendments to IAS 32 Dec 2011 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities: Amendments to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets: and Amendments to IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting.
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the Standards listed above will have a significant impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods, other than IFRS 9 which will likely impact both the measurement and disclosures of financial instruments.
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these new and amended Standards until a detailed review has been completed.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and the Group, plus the Groups share of the results and net assets of the joint ventures.
The Company holds investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
A joint venture is a contract under which the Group and other parties undertake an activity or invest in an entity, under joint control.
The Group uses equity accounting for such entities, carrying its investment at cost plus the movement in the Groups share of net assets after acquisition, less impairment.
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition related costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | www.
