94 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SEGRO PLC OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF SEGRO PLC In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 32.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
GOING CONCERN As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors Statement contained on page 93 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk SEGRO plc owns and manages a portfolio of modern We assessed managements process for reviewing and challenging the work of the warehousing, light industrial and data centre properties.
The valuation of the portfolio is underpinned by a number We met with the external valuers of the portfolio to discuss and challenge the valuation of judgements and assumptions.
process, performance of the portfolio and significant assumptions and critical judgement The Group uses professionally qualified external valuers to areas, including occupancy rates, yields and development milestones.
fair value the Groups portfolio at six-monthly intervals.
The We benchmarked and challenged the key assumptions to external industry data and portfolio excluding development properties is valued by comparable property transactions, in particular the yield.
the investment method of valuation with development We assessed the competence, independence and integrity of the external valuer: and properties valued by the same methodology with a We performed audit procedures to assess the integrity of information provided to the deduction for all costs necessary to complete the independent relating to rental income, purchasers costs and occupancy.
development together with a remaining allowance for Please see note 15 of the Financial Statements.
Accounting for the creation of the SEGRO European We audited the calculation of the gain on disposal of the portfolio into the SEGRO Logistics Partnership joint venture, including the European Logistics Partnership, focusing on and challenging the fair value assessment of the deferred consideration.
determination of the gain on disposal of the portfolio into the venture and the assessment of the nature of the jointly We have reviewed the shareholders agreement for the SEGRO European Logistics controlled entity.
Partnership to verify the underlying accounting treatment as a joint venture, including decision making agreements and deadlock.
Please see note 7 of the Financial Statements.
Revenue recognition, focusing on the accounting treatment As part of our audit of revenue, we focused on any unusual and complex adjustments for unusual or more complex items including lease to revenue, agreeing all items to the underlying leases and recalculating the revenue incentives.
recognised in relation to lease incentives: Please see note 4 of the Financial Statements.
Accounting for significant financing transactions and We audited each significant financing transaction, agreeing the terms of the repayments complex financial instruments, in particular the valuation of and drawdowns to loan agreements.
We used our financial instrument specialists to complex financial instruments.
recalculate the valuation of complex financial instruments using market interest rates.
Please see note 21 of the Financial Statements.
SEGRO plc has undertaken a number of material We confirmed key transaction terms to sale and purchase agreements for all significant acquisitions and disposals in the year, in particular the acquisitions and disposals to verify that key terms were appropriately reflected in any disposals of IQ Winnersh, Equinix and Neckermann.
calculation of profit or loss on disposal.
We considered the date at which the transaction completes based on the acquisition or disposal agreements.
We checked that the transactions are properly reflected and disclosed in the accounts.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | www.
