OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION 147 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION USEFUL HISTORICAL INFORMATION DIVIDENDS A requirement of the REIT regime is that a REIT must distribute to Share history of the company shareholders by way of dividend at least 90 per cent of its profits from On 20 August 2007, the ordinary share capital was consolidated 1 its tax-exempt UK property rental business calculated under UK tax on the basis of 12 new ordinary shares of 27 pence for every 12 principles after the deduction of interest and capital allowances and 13 ordinary shares of 25 pence held on the 17 August 2007. excluding chargeable gains.
Such distributions are referred to as A special dividend of 53 pence per share was paid in connection Property Income Distributions, or PIDs.
Any further distributions may be with the consolidation on 31 August 2007. paid as ordinary dividends or PIDs, which are derived from profits earned On 4 March 2009, a rights issue was announced on the basis of by its UK, non-REIT taxable business, as well as the Groups overseas 12 new ordinary shares for every existing share held on 17 March 1 operations.
2009 at a subscription price of 10 pence per share.
Each 27 pence 12 ordinary share in issue was subdivided and re-classified into one 1 DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN ordinary share of one pence each and one deferred share of 26 12 SEGRO operates a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP in respect pence each.
The deferred shares were created for technical reasons of PIDs and ordinary cash dividends.
You can join the DRIP online at in order to maintain the aggregate nominal value of the Companys www.
co. uk products pages applyforadrip.
aspx where you share capital upon sub-division of its ordinary shares.
The very can also view the DRIP terms and conditions or by completing a DRIP limited rights attached to the deferred shares rendered them mandate form.
If you wish to receive a hard copy of the DRIP terms effectively valueless and they were cancelled on 8 May 2009. and conditions or the DRIP mandate form please contact Equiniti In relation to the acquisition of Brixton, on 24 August 2009, SEGRO see shareholder enquiries.
The DRIP costs and charges are detailed plc undertook a share consolidation, open offer and private placing.
in the DRIP terms and conditions.
On 31 July 2009, every 10 ordinary shares of one pence each were consolidated into one ordinary share of ten pence each and, 0.10484 open offer shares of ten pence each were offered to every WITHHOLDING TAX shareholder of SEGRO plc who, on 13 July 2009, held ten ordinary SEGRO is required to withhold tax at source from its PIDs at the basic tax rate 20 per cent.
UK shareholders need take no immediate action shares of one pence each.
The acquisition of Brixton was conducted by a scheme of arrangement.
Brixton shareholders were offered unless they qualify for exemption as described below and will receive with each dividend payment a tax deduction certificate stating the 0.175 consideration shares of ten pence each in SEGRO plc for each amount of tax deducted.
UK shareholders who fall into one of the classes of shareholder able SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES to claim an exemption from withholding tax may be able to receive a If you have any questions about your shareholding or if you require gross PID payment if they have submitted a valid relevant Exemption further guidance e. g. to notify a change of address please contact Declaration form, either as a beneficial owner of the shares, or as an Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex intermediary if the shares are not registered in the name of the beneficial BN99 6DA, telephone 44 0 871 384 2186.
Alternatively, you can owner, to Equiniti.
The Exemption Declaration form is available at check your shareholding and access dividend information by registering www.
com under Investors Shareholder Information REIT.
co. uk, or you can securely send queries via the website A valid declaration form, once submitted, will continue to apply to by visiting https: help.
future payments of PIDs until rescinded, and so it is a shareholders responsibility to notify SEGRO if their circumstances change and they are no longer able to claim an exemption from withholding tax.
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS Shareholders now have the opportunity to elect to receive shareholder Shareholders resident outside the UK may be able to claim a partial communications electronically, e. g. Annual Reports, Interim Reports, refund either as an individual or as a company from HMRC, subject to Notice of the Annual General Meeting and Proxy Forms.
You can elect the terms of a double tax treaty, if any, between the UK and the country to receive email notifications of shareholder communications by in which the shareholder is resident.
co. uk where you can also set up a bank mandate to receive dividends directly to your bank account and to submit proxy votes for shareholder meetings.
Receiving the Companys communications electronically allows the Company to communicate with its shareholders in a more environmentally friendly, cost effective and timely manner.
AGM The 2014 AGM will be held on 30 April 2014 at RSA House, 8 John Adam Street, London WC2N 6EZ.
SHAREGIFT ShareGift is a charity registered under the name The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, registered charity number 1052686 which specialises in accepting donations of small numbers of shares which are uneconomic to sell on their own.
Shares which have been donated to ShareGift are aggregated and sold when practicable, with the proceeds passed onto a wide range of UK charities.
ShareGift can also help with larger donations of shares.
Further details about ShareGift can be obtained from its website at www.
org or by writing to ShareGift at 17 Carlton House Terrace, London, SW1Y 5AH, telephone: 44 0 207 930 3737.
