148 GLOSSARY OF TERMS APP NET INITIAL YIELD Airport Property Partnership, a 50-50 joint venture between SEGRO and Annualised current passing rent less non-recoverable property expenses Aviva Investors.
such as empty rates, divided by the property valuation plus notional purchasers costs.
This is in accordance with EPRAs Best Practices COMPLETED PORTFOLIO Recommendations.
The completed investment and trading properties and the Groups share of joint ventures completed investment and trading properties.
NET RENTAL INCOME Gross Rental Income less ground rents paid, net service charge expenses DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE and property operating expenses.
The Groups current programme of developments authorised or in the course of construction at the balance sheet date, together with potential PASSING RENT schemes not yet commenced on land owned or controlled by the Group.
The annual rental income currently receivable on a property as at the balance sheet date which may be more or less than the ERV.
Excludes EPRA rental income where a rent free period is in operation.
Excludes service The European Public Real Estate Association, a real estate industry body, charge income which is netted off against service charge expenses.
who have issued Best Practices Recommendations in order to provide consistency and transparency in real estate reporting across Europe.
PRE-LET A lease signed with an occupier prior to completion of a development.
ESTIMATED COST TO COMPLETION Costs still to be expended on a development or redevelopment to REIT practical completion not to complete lettings, including attributable A qualifying entity which has elected to be treated as a Real Estate interest.
Investment Trust for tax purposes.
In the UK, such entities must be listed on a recognised stock exchange, must be predominantly engaged in ESTIMATED RENTAL VALUE ERV property investment activities and must meet certain ongoing The estimated annual market rental value of lettable space as determined qualifications.
SEGRO plc and its UK subsidiaries achieved REIT status biannually by the Companys valuers.
This will normally be different from with effect from 1 January 2007. the rent being paid.
SELP GEARING SEGRO European Logistics Partnership, a 50-50 joint venture between Net borrowings divided by total shareholders equity excluding intangible SEGRO and Public Sector Pension Investment Board PSP Investments.
assets and deferred tax provision.
SIIC GROSS RENTAL INCOME Socits dinvestissements Immobiliers Cotes are the French equivalent Contracted rental income recognised in the period, including surrender of UK Real Estate Investment Trusts see REIT.
premiums and interest receivable on finance leases.
Lease incentives, initial costs and any contracted future rental increases are amortised on a SPECULATIVE DEVELOPMENT straight line basis over the lease term.
Where a development has commenced prior to a lease agreement being signed in relation to that development.
HECTARES HA The area of land measurement used in this analysis.
The conversion SPPICAV factor used, where appropriate, is 1 hectare 2.471 acres.
A Socit fide Placement Prpondrance Immobilire Capital Variable is an alternative corporate means of owning real estate assets in France.
INVESTMENT PROPERTY Completed land and buildings held for rental income return and or RENT ROLL capital appreciation.
IPD SQUARE METRES SQ M Investment Property Databank is a provider of real estate performance The area of buildings measurements used in this analysis.
The conversion and risk analysis.
factor used, where appropriate, is 1 square metre 10.7639 square feet.
JOINT VENTURE TAKEBACK An entity in which the Group holds an interest and which is jointly Rental income lost due to lease expiry, exercise of break option, controlled by the Group and one or more partners under a contractual surrender or insolvency.
arrangement whereby decisions on financial and operating policies TOPPED UP NET INITIAL YIELD essential to the operation, performance and financial position of the Net Initial Yield adjusted to include notional rent in respect of let venture require each partners consent.
properties which are subject to a rent free period at the valuation date.
LOAN TO VALUE LTV This is in accordance with EPRAs Best Practices Recommendations.
Net borrowings divided by the carrying value of total property assets TOTAL PROPERTY RETURN TPR investment, owner occupied and trading properties.
This is measured A measure of the ungeared return for the portfolio and is calculated as either on a look-through basis including joint ventures at share or the change in capital value, less any capital expenditure incurred, plus net wholly owned which excludes joint ventures.
income, expressed as a percentage of capital employed over the period LPP concerned, as calculated by IPD and excluding land.
Logistics Property Partnership, a 50-50 joint venture between SEGRO TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN TSR and Moorfield Real Estate Fund II MREF II.
A measure of return based upon share price movement over the period NET TRUE EQUIVALENT YIELD and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
The internal rate of return from an investment property, based on the TRADING PROPERTY value of the property assuming the current passing rent reverts to ERV Property being developed for sale or one which is being held for sale and assuming the property becomes fully occupied over time.
It assumes after development is complete.
that rent is received quarterly in advance.
YIELD ON COST Yield on cost is the expected gross yield based on the estimated current market rental value ERV of the developments when fully let, divided by the book value of the developments at the balance sheet date plus future development costs and estimated finance costs to completion.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | www.
com The printer and paper mill are both accredited with ISO14001 Registered ofce Environmental Management System and are both Forest SEGRO plc Stewardship Council certied.
Cunard House CPI Colour is a Carbon Neutral printing company.
15 Regent Street London SW1Y 4LR Designed and produced by www.
com Registered in England and Wales Registered ofce number 167591 GO ONLINE To keep up to date with SEGRO, you can source facts and gures about the Group through the various sections on our website and sign up for email alerts for fast communication ofbreaking news.
Financial reports, shareholder information and property analysis are frequently updated and our current share price isalways displayed on the Home Page.
As well as featuring detailed information about available property throughout the portfolio, www.
com now also includes a dedicated property search function making it easy for potential customers, or their agents, to nd business space that ts their requirement exactly.
SEGROs performance in areas such as sustainability and customer care are also featured on the site.
com OTHER PUBLICATIONS Additional disclosures on our property portfolio can be found in the 2013 Property Analysis Booklet.
com for this document and further information on Sustainability.
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report contains certain forward looking statements with respect to SEGROs expectations and plans, strategy, management objectives, future developments and performance, costs, revenues and other trend information.
These statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend upon circumstances that may occur in the future.
There are a number of factors which could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward looking statements and forecasts.
Certain statements have been made with reference to forecast process changes, economic conditions and the current regulatory environment.
Any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of SEGRO speak only as of the date they are made.
SEGRO does not undertake to update forward looking statements to reect any changes inevents, conditions or circumstances on which any such statements based.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as aprot forecast.
Past share performance cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.
