OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION 71 CHART 1: 2013 SIGNIFICANT MATTERS SIGNIFICANT MATTER THE ACTION TAKEN Valuation is central to the business The Board, with the Committee members present, met with the valuers of the whollyand is a significant area of judgement.
owned and joint-venture assets to review the valuation process, understand any particular The Committee is responsible for the issues encountered in the valuation and challenge the processes of the valuers.
assurance of the valuation process On the basis of the above, the Committee concluded that the valuations were suitable for and for assessing the independence of inclusion in the financial statements.
Accounting for the creation and ongoing The Committee reviewed reports from management and agreed the treatment of the activities of SELP at half and full year.
It agreed the accounting judgement that the transaction should be treated as a disposal of assets rather than of a business.
It also considered and agreed managements proposed treatment of the gain on sale and the tax effect of the disposal.
At half year, given the degree of conditionality attaching to completion of the transaction, assets expected to be ceded to the joint venture were shown as held for sale.
For the full year, the transaction having completed, the Committee concurred with managements view that SELP should be treated as a joint venture and the Committee satisfied itself that the net results for SELP were appropriately recognised.
See pages 28 and 29 for further details on SELP.
Accounting for other significant The Committee considered the accounting treatment of various transactions including acquisitions, disposals and investments.
the Zeran Park II acquisition, the IQ Winnersh and the Neckermann Campus disposals.
These disposals were noted in the half-year financial statements as being held for sale as completion had not taken place.
Both disposals completed prior to the year end.
The Committee challenged management in respect of the application of policy and internal controls relating to revenue recognition and reviewed reports from the internal auditors in respect of these areas.
The Committee also agreed managements treatment of the surrender premium receivable in respect of a lease on a Group asset, along with the appropriate cut-off for inclusion in the financial statements of a number of transactions.
Accounting for valuation of complex At year end, financial instruments had a total net fair value of 78 million excluding joint financial instruments.
A change in accounting standards potentially required adjustments in valuation of these instruments in respect of the Companys credit risk.
Managements assessment was that this did not have a significant impact on values.
Following challenge of this assessment, the Committee satisfied itself that the proposed approach was appropriate.
See pages 52 and 53 of the Finance Review.
Management submitted a report to the Committee which, amongst other matters, set out the Groups liquidity position, covenant headroom, cash ow forecasts, and sensitivity analyses.
Following review, the Committee regards the current risks associated with going concern as low.
See page 36 Principal Risks and page 53 of the Finance Review.
72 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT FURTHER WORK UNDERTAKEN INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK EXTERNAL AUDIT EFFECTIVENESS BYTHE COMMITTEE The Committee, on behalf of the Board, is The Committee assesses the effectiveness In addition to issues directly affecting responsible for reviewing the internal control of the external audit on an annual basis.
the financial statements, the scope of the framework.
This review is consistent with During the year, the Committee engaged an Committees work also encompassed the Code and covers all material areas of the independent rm, Audit Review, to conduct many aspects of the project to put SELP Group, including risk management see pages a review of the audit process.
The Committee considered the 32 and 33 Principal Risks and compliance were that the 2012 audit was appropriately tax risks associated with this transaction, with controls.
The Committee also monitors scoped and was well planned and executed.
including those of the asset restructuring the effectiveness of the framework through A number of actions were agreed with and the transfer of certain subsidiary reports from the Group Finance Director Deloitte, including increasing efficiency of the companies into the joint venture.
PwC LLP and the internal and external auditors on audit, by improving co-ordination with both was engaged by the Company to provide progress with internal control activities.
the internal auditor and finance managers tax advice on the project.
The Head of Tax The Committee maintains a schedule which across the Groups various jurisdictions, and Corporate Finance Manager reported lists all outstanding control points, notes and also reviewing the impact of the new to the Committee and confirmed that the the priority attaching to them and progress accounting system being introduced in 2013 proposals in respect of the asset restructuring against agreed timeframes for resolution.
and subsidiary company transfer were in line The Committee confirms that it has not been The review of the 2013 external audit was with the Companys low-risk tax strategy.
advised of any failings or weaknesses which it conducted internally.
A framework was The Committee also received a report on regards to be significant.
established to assess the effectiveness of the the potential financial reporting impact of The Company has a whistleblowing policy audit process and the Committee considered tax and regulatory changes being proposed and a service provided by an external the rigour and level of scrutiny applied in certain countries in which the Group company whereby employees or third parties during the audit and also the interaction operates.
Having considered managements can raise concerns by email or telephone, of the external auditor with both the views, the Committee concurred with its whether in relation to financial reporting, Committee and management.
or other matters, in confidence.
A report is review, the Committee was satisfied that The 2013 results were the first to be reported made to each meeting of the Committee and Deloitte continued to perform effectively using the newly implemented Group-wide any matters reported under the policy are as the external auditor.
The Committee accounting and management information promptly and fully investigated, with external also assessed managements role in the system, MRI.
In addition to managements support where necessary.
effectiveness of the external audit process, own project controls, the Committee retained principally focusing on the early identication oversight of this project and both KPMG of relevant issues and the quality and and Deloitte monitored and reported on the timeliness of papers highlighting significant system implementation.
The Committee also reviewed the cyber risks facing the Group and National Computing Centre was engaged to conduct a vulnerability review of the Groups information systems.
A number of minor improvements were noted and the Committee approved a plan to address these points.
During the year, the Committee amended and approved the external auditors proposal on the materiality threshold for the purposes of the audit, together with the threshold applying to audit testing procedures.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | www.
