102 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS OF PREPARATION The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with EU Endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, IFRIC Interpretations, and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore the Groups financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
In addition, the Group has also followed best practice recommendations issued by the European Public Real Estate Association EPRA as appropriate.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
This is discussed in the Financial Review on page 54.
The Directors have taken advantage of the exemption offered by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present a separate income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the Company.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of properties, available-for-sale investments and certain financial assets and liabilities including derivatives.
These financial statements are presented in sterling since that is the currency in which the majority of the Groups transactions are denominated.
In the current financial year the Group has adopted the amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income, IAS 19 revised Employment Benefits and IFRS13 Fair Value Measurement.
The amendments to IAS 1 require items of other comprehensive income to be grouped by those items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss and those that will never be reclassified as well as their associated income tax.
The amendments have been applied retrospectively, and hence the presentation of items of comprehensive income has been re-grouped to reflect the change.
IAS 19 revised 2011 and the related consequential amendments have impacted the accounting for the Groups defined benefit scheme, by replacing the interest cost and expected return on plan assets with a net interest charge on the net defined liability.
For the current period the profit was 0.6 million lower and other comprehensive income was 0.6 million higher than it would have been prior to the adoption of IAS 19.
As the Group has always recognised actuarial gains losses immediately, there has been no effect on the prior year defined benefit obligation.
The comparative period has not been restated as the impact of adopting IAS 19 revised 2011 is not considered material.
IFRS 13 has impacted the measurement criteria of fair value for certain assets and liabilities and also introduced new disclosures as set out in Note 15.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements: IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements: IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities: IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements: IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures: IFRIC 21 Levies: Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Investment entities: Amendments to IAS 19 Nov 2013 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions: Amendments to IAS 32 Dec 2011 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities: Amendments to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets: and Amendments to IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting.
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the Standards listed above will have a significant impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods, other than IFRS 9 which will likely impact both the measurement and disclosures of financial instruments.
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these new and amended Standards until a detailed review has been completed.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and the Group, plus the Groups share of the results and net assets of the joint ventures.
The Company holds investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
A joint venture is a contract under which the Group and other parties undertake an activity or invest in an entity, under joint control.
The Group uses equity accounting for such entities, carrying its investment at cost plus the movement in the Groups share of net assets after acquisition, less impairment.
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition related costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION 103 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The interest of non-controlling interest shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at their proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSACTIONS Foreign currency transactions are translated into sterling at the exchange rates ruling on the transaction date.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from settling these, or from retranslating monetary assets and liabilities held in foreign currencies, are booked in the Group income statement.
The exception is for foreign currency loans and derivatives that hedge investments in foreign subsidiaries, where exchange differences are booked in equity until the investment is realised.
CONSOLIDATION OF FOREIGN ENTITIES Assets and liabilities of foreign entities are translated into sterling at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Their income, expenses and cash flows are translated at the average rate for the period or at spot rate for significant items.
Resultant exchange differences are booked in reserves and recognised in the income statement when the operation is sold.
The principal exchange rates used to translate foreign currency denominated amounts in 2013 are: Balance sheet: 1 1.20 31 December 2012: 1 1.23 Income statement: 1 1.18 2012: 1 1.23 INVESTMENT PROPERTIES These properties include completed properties that are generating rent or are available for rent and development properties that are under development or available for development.
Investment properties comprise freehold and leasehold properties and are first measured at cost including transaction costs, then revalued to market value at each reporting date by professional valuers.
Leasehold properties are shown gross of the leasehold payables which are accounted for as finance lease obligations.
Valuation gains and losses in a period are taken to the income statement.
As the Group uses the fair value model as per IAS 40 Investment Properties, no depreciation is provided.
TRADING PROPERTIES These are properties being developed for sale or being held for sale after development is complete, and are shown at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes direct expenditure and capitalised interest.
Trading properties are transferred to investment properties when there is a change in use evidenced by the commencement of an operating lease to another party, together with the intention to hold the property to generate rent, or for capital appreciation, or for both.
PROPERTY ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS Properties are treated as acquired at the point when the Group assumes the significant risks and rewards of ownership and as disposed when these are transferred to the buyer.
Generally this would occur on completion of contract.
LEASES Leases where substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the lessee are classified as finance leases.
All others are deemed operating leases.
Under operating leases, properties leased to tenants are accounted for as investment properties.
In cases where only the buildings part of a property lease qualifies as a finance lease, the land is shown as an investment property.
REVENUE Revenue includes gross rental income, joint venture management fee income, income from service charges and proceeds from the sale of trading properties.
Joint venture management fee income is recognised as income when earned.
Rental income Rental income from properties let as operating leases are recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives and initial costs to arrange leases are capitalised, then amortised on a straight-line basis over the lease term rent averaging.
For properties let as finance leases, minimum lease receipts are apportioned between finance income and principal repayment, but receipts that were not fixed at lease inception e. g. rent review rises, are recognised as income when earned.
Surrender premiums received in the period are included in rental income.
Service charges and other recoveries from tenants These include income in relation to service charges, directly recoverable expenditure and management fees.
Revenue from services is recognised by reference to the state of completion of the relevant services provided at the reporting date.
Service charge income is netted against property operating expenses.
104 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between the amount initially recognised and the redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings, using the effective interest rate method.
Gross borrowing costs relating to direct expenditure on properties under development or undergoing major refurbishment are capitalised.
The interest capitalised is calculated using the Groups weighted average cost of borrowing for the relevant currency.
Interest is capitalised as from the commencement of the development work until the date of practical completion.
The capitalisation of finance costs is suspended if there are prolonged periods when development activity is interrupted.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivatives principally interest rate swaps, currency swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts in managing interest rate risk and currency risk, and does not use them for trading.
They are recorded, and subsequently revalued, at fair value, with revaluation gains or losses being immediately taken to the income statement.
The exception is for derivatives qualifying as hedges, when the treatment of the gain loss depends upon the item being hedged, and may go to other comprehensive income.
Derivatives with a maturity of less than twelve months or that expect to be settled within twelve months of the balance sheet date are presented as current assets or liabilities.
Other derivatives are presented as non-current assets or liabilities.
Trade and other receivables and payables Trade and other receivables are booked at fair value.
An impairment provision is created where there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect in full.
Trade and other payables are stated at cost, since cost is a reasonable approximation of fair value.
Available-for-sale AFS investments AFS investments are initially measured at cost, and then revalued to fair value based on quarterly reports received from the fund manager, or other market evidence where publicly traded.
Gains and losses arising from valuation are taken to equity, and then recycled through the income statement on realisation.
If there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, any cumulative loss recognised in equity is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement within other investment income.
PENSIONS DEFINED BENEFIT SCHEMES The schemes assets are measured at fair value, their obligations are calculated at discounted present value, and any net surplus or deficit is recognised in the balance sheet.
Operating and financing costs are charged to the income statement, with service costs spread systematically over employees working lives, and financing costs expensed in the period in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Where the actuarial valuation of the scheme demonstrates that the scheme is in surplus, the recognisable asset is limited to that for which the Group can benefit in the future.
Professional actuaries are used in relation to defined benefit schemes and the assumptions made are outlined in note 22.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The cost of granting share options and other share-based remuneration is recognised in the income statement at their fair value at grant date.
They are expensed straight-line over the vesting period, based on estimates of the shares or options that will eventually vest.
Charges are reversed if it appears that non-market based performance conditions will not be met.
INCOME TAX Income tax on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the tax payable on the taxable income for the year and any adjustment in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided in full using the balance sheet liability method on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date and are expected to apply when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
No provision is made for temporary differences i arising on the initial recognition of assets or liabilities, other than a business combination, that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit and ii relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that suitable taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION AND UNCERTAINTY Management believes that the judgements, estimates and associated assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements are reasonable, however actual results may differ from these estimates.
Critical judgements, where made, are disclosed within the relevant section of the financial statements in which such judgements have been applied.
The critical estimate and assumption relates to the property valuations applied by the Groups property valuers.
In addition to property valuations, key judgements and assumptions drive the accounting for significant transactions including the creation of the SELP joint venture, revenue recognition and the valuation of financial instruments.
Other less significant judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty relate to provisioning, the actuarial assumptions used in calculating the Groups retirement benefit obligations and compliance with the REIT and SIIC regimes.
These are described in more detail in the accounting policy notes above, or the applicable note to the financial statements.
