20 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW DRIVING OUR OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE We have made good progress in several areas and we are well placed to benefit from improving occupier demand from economic recovery and a number of structural drivers.
However, as anticipated at the start of the year, the loss of Neckermann as a tenant early in 2013, the loss of rent from properties sold during the year and the creation of SELP meant that some of our operational metrics for the year declined compared with 2012.
STRENGTHENING OCCUPIER MARKETS The UK and Continental European markets are slowly emerging from the malaise in the wake of the global financial crisis although the strength of occupier demand varies geographically.
The growth of online retailing is beginning to drive demand for more modern, efficient and often larger warehouses by retailers and third party logistics providers and for urban logistics warehousing on the edge of towns and cities to facilitate the distribution of goods to their final destination last mile delivery rapidly and cost-effectively.
Such warehouses, particularly Grade A stock, are often unavailable as speculative development was curtailed during the downturn and industrial uses compete with higher value uses, particularly residential, for available land.
This has resulted in an improvement in occupier demand for less modern space and we are pleased to have made some progress in letting vacant space in some of our older DB SCHENKER estates, for example in Basingstoke and Heston.
There is also continued demand for data centre capacity, particularly in Slough due to its connectivity, proximity to London and power availability.
Trends in occupier demand are discussed further on pages 24 to 27, and we provide further detail on last mile ANDY GULLIFORD delivery solutions on page 30.
CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER The rapid growth of internet retailing is driving demand for large, centrally located warehouses and for smaller edge of town urban logistics facilities.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION 21 STRONG LEASING AND LOWER RENT AT RISK FROM INSOLVENCIES PRE-LETTING ACTIVITY SEGRO, and its joint ventures, service 1,250 customers During 2013, we secured 196 new leases across the across multiple sectors and actively monitor their Group, totalling 300,500 sq m, which generated credit-worthiness and any rent at risk from insolvency.
26.8 million of new annualised rental income At 31 December 2013, we had 2.3 million 0.9 per cent 2012: 35.3 million.
The main difference compared of annualised gross passing rent relating to customers to last year is in the level of take-up from completed in administration 31 December 2012: 13.3 million, developments which was 7.7 million in 2013 and 12.2 million of which related to Neckermann.
Take-back levels were in line with 2.1 million of this related to Mory Ducros, the French last year at 21.0 million 2012: 20.7 million and were third party logistics provider, which entered administration more than offset by new lettings.
Rent lost from insolvency this year Like-for-like net rental income fell 1.5percent due to totalled 13.8 million, of which Neckermann was the 1.9 million of net take-backs of existing space and a bad largest single contributor, prior to the asset being sold debt expense related to Mory Ducros discussed opposite.
Excluding Neckermann, rent lost to insolvency was 1.6 million.
The rent at risk from lease breaks or expiries in 2013 was41.0 million and, during the year, we retained Despite the generally improving economic environment, 69percent of these leases, slightly above the level there are some Continental European economies where achieved in the prior year of 65 per cent.
The rent at conditions remain challenging, and we remain vigilant to risk in 2014 islower than in 2013 at 28.2 million, the risk of tenant insolvency.
We seek to mitigate this risk albeitconcentrated in the first half of the year.
through due diligence on the financial strength of potential customers as well as on-going discourse with existing Headline rental levels achieved on new leases and lease customers throughout their lease.
renewals were 5.2 per cent above the valuers December 2012 estimated rental values ERVs on average.
The level GROWING PORTFOLIO VALUATION of lease incentives given on new lettings during the year European property market returns improved in 2013 as rose to 11.0 per cent on average, compared to 8.2 per investor confidence grew that interest rates would remain cent in 2012.
In part, this rise is due to regional ofce at their historic lows for the medium term.
Investors are lettings early in 2013. being attracted into prime and, increasingly, well-located Information on leasing activity in our main markets secondary logistics assets by the combination of economic isprovided on pages 24 to 27. recovery, the impacts of online retailing, supply shortages, a relatively attractive yield prole and relatively stable, VACANCY IMPACTED BY DISPOSAL low-risk, income-oriented returns.
Investors risk appetite PROGRAMME also appears to be improving, although demand remains The vacancy rate at 31 December 2013 increased to focused on the strongest European sub-markets.
8.5per cent compared with 8.2 per cent a year ago and The weight of money seeking exposure to the asset class, 9.5 per cent at 30 June 2013.
If we remove space let on particularly in the UK, means that prime logistics yields a short-term basis, the vacancy rate rises to 10.0 per cent, have fallen and we have also seen strong institutional from 9.8 per cent a year ago.
demand for multi-let, light industrial assets, especially Asset disposals with an average vacancy rate of in South East England.
Although investor interest in 7percent and the creation of SELP 6 per cent average Continental Europe is strong for the best assets, weakness vacancy were an important driver of the increase in in some occupier markets, particularly in France, is causing vacancy.
The properties transferred into SELP, as well investor demand for anything other than prime assets to as IQWinnersh were within our core portfolio before remain muted.
disposal, so the core vacancy rate rose to 8.2 per cent These trends are reected in the valuation of our from7.6 per cent last year, whilst the non-core vacancy portfolio at 31 December 2013.
The total value of the rate remained at at 11.1 per cent.
Groups property portfolio, comprising completed The portfolios weighted average lease length properties including our share of joint venture assets, improvedto 6.7 years to first break 8.9 years to expiry land and development increased by 133 million at31 December 2013, compared with 6.4 years 2012: 309 million decline.
This mainly reects a 8.4yearstoexpiry at 31 December 2012.
4.1 per cent increase on a like-for-like basis of our completed properties.
22 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Our completed UK portfolio increased in value by In Continental Europe, the completed portfolio value 7.0percent on a like-for-like basis, out-performing the declined by 31.6 million, or 3.1per cent, reecting a IPD UK Industrial Quarterly Index which increased by poor performance from the non-core assets, which fell 5.7percent in 2013.
The capital return on our UK portfolio 25.8 million, or 8.6 per cent, compared to a 5.8 million was driven by a reduction in the true equivalent yield decline, or 0.8 per cent, in the core portfolio.
to 7.2per cent 31 December 2012: 7.6 per cent, while Our Central Europe portfolio increased in value by valuers estimated rental values ERV were at overall.
4.5percent, reecting development gains and improving The strongest performer in the UK was our Greater London investor demand.
By contrast, weakness in the French portfolio, which increased by 7.3 per cent, reecting a market was the driver of a 7.1 per cent decline in our decline in equivalent yield to 7.0 per cent from 7.4 per cent Southern Europe portfolio.
Our German portfolio fell in a year earlier and a 0.9 per cent increase in valuers ERVs.
value by 0.3 per cent reecting a 4.2 per cent rise in the core assets, offset by a 6.0 per cent decline in non-core assets, but continued weakness in Belgium and the Netherlands meant that our Northern Europe portfolio posted a 3.1 percent decline overall.
PHIL REDDING CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER Our portfolio increased in value by 4.1percent on a like-for-like basis, reectinggrowing investor interest forwell-located warehouse assets.
2 In relation to the completed properties only.
3 Vacancy rate excluding short term lettings for the Group at 31 December 2013 is 10.0%.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION 23 ROYAL MAIL, BIRMINGHAM OUTLOOK During the past two years we have substantially repositioned our business such that we now have a higher Although the European macro-economic environment quality property portfolio, a more conservative financial is starting to improve, challenges remain for many structure, a more efficient cost base and a stronger businesses and the improvement in general occupier platform from which to deliver attractive income-led total demand is likely to be gradual.
Nevertheless, the structural property returns and to achieve growth.
Our portfolio changes in retailing towards online sales and convenience is largely focused on the locations likely to benefit most shopping are providing a catalyst for a wave of demand for from the improving demand outlook and the structural warehouse space from a range of occupiers.
These trends drivers referred to above.
Furthermore, our well-located along with the relatively high income yields still available, land bank also provides the opportunity to accelerate our are also attracting the interest of real estate investors, highly profitable, largely fide-risked through pre-lettings causing values of both prime and, increasingly, secondary development programme in 2014 and beyond.
These themes are still evolving and we expect that both occupational demand and investor Whilst investment market conditions are likely to become appetite for such assets should be sustained in the increasingly competitive in the year ahead, we are medium term.
confident in our ability to continue sourcing attractive acquisition opportunities over time to offset the loss of Operationally, we have delivered a good underlying income associated with the disposal of the remaining performance in 2013 in what has been a challenging non-core assets.
As anticipated, SEGROs headline earnings have been impacted by the execution of our There is more work to be done, but we look to the future strategy, some of which will continue to be felt in 2014. confident in our ability to become the best owner-manager However, our focus has now turned more rmly towards and developer of warehouse and industrial properties and exploiting opportunities which are accretive to earnings a leading income-focused REIT.
The Strategic Report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by DAVID SLEATH CHIEF EXECUTIVE
