116 Shareholders and corporate information ANALYSiS oF SHAREHoLDERS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2013 REGiSTRAR Equiniti Limited maintains the Groups Register of Members.
NUMBER They may be contacted at: oF SHARES % oF NUMBER oF HELD SHARES Equiniti Limited ACCoUNTS 000 HELD Aspect House Spencer Road Banks and Nominees 466 243,584 96 Lancing Limited and Plc 127 1,098 1 West Sussex, BN99 6DA Other organisations 32 1,720 1 Telephone 0871 384 2294 International 44 121 415 7047.
Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline plus network Individuals 246 5,912 2 extras.
Lines open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday.
871 252,314 100 Shareholder accounts may be accessed online through www.
This gives secure access to account information and permits shareholders to amend address information and payment instructions.
There is also a Shareview dealing service which is a NUMBER oF SHARES % oF simple and convenient way to buy or sell shares in the Group.
NUMBER oF HELD SHARES NUMBER oF SHARES ACCoUNTS 000 HELD EFFECT oF REiT STATUS oN PAYMENT oF DiViDENDS 1-100,000 675 8,395 As a REIT, we do not pay UK corporation tax in respect of rental profits 3 and chargeable gains relating to our property rental business.
100,001-500,000 107 25,169 10 However, we are required to distribute at least 90% of the qualifying 500,001-1,000,000 30 19,901 8 income broadly calculated using the UK tax rules as a PID.
Certain categories of shareholder may be able to receive the PID 1,000,001 or over 59 198,849 79 element of their dividends gross, without deduction of withholding tax.
871 252,314 100 Categories which may claim this exemption include: UK companies, charities, local authorities, UK pension schemes and managers of PEPs, ISAs and Child Trust Funds.
CoRPoRATE TiMETABLE Further information and the forms for completion to apply for PIDs to Financial calendar be paid gross are available on the Groups website or from the Annual General Meeting 7 February 2014 registrar.
The deadline for completed forms to be with the registrar for payment of the 2013 final dividend is 24 January 2014.
Interim Management Statement first half 7 February 2014 Where the Group pays an ordinary dividend, in addition to the PID, this 2014 Half Year Results to be announced May 2014 will be treated in the same way as dividends from non-REIT Interim Management Statement second half July August 2014 companies.
SHAREGiFT DiViDENDS AND DEBENTURE iNTEREST The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a voluntary charity share donation scheme for retail shareholders who wish to dispose of small Proposed 2013 final dividend: numbers of shares whose value makes it uneconomical to sell them.
Ex-dividend 22 January 2014 Details are available from www.
Record date 24 January 2014 Payment date 14 February 2014 2014 interim dividend to be paid July 2014 Debenture stock interest to be paid 31 March 2014 and 30 September 2014 Shaftesbury annual report 2013 oTHER INFoRMATIoN Glossary of terms 117 Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Gearing Method BREEAM Nominal value of Group borrowings expressed as a percentage of BREEAM sets the standard for best practice in sustainable building EPRA net assets.
Buildings are assessed on a broad Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB range of environmental factors and can be given ratings ranging from Organisation which assess the sustainability of real estate portfolios pass to outstanding.
Capital value return initial yield The valuation movement and realised surpluses or deficits arising The initial yield is the net initial income at the date of valuation from the Groups investment portfolio expressed as a percentage expressed as a percentage of the gross valuation.
Yields reflect net return on the valuation at the beginning of the year adjusted for income after deduction of any ground rents, head rents, rent charges acquisitions and capital expenditure.
Compound Annual Growth Rate CAGR interest cover The year-on-year growth rate of an investment over a specified period The interest cover is a measure of the number of times the Group can of time.
make interest payments with its operating profit before investment Conservation area property disposals and valuation movements.
A conservation area is an area of special architectural interest, the investment Property Databank iPD character or appearance of which it is desirable to preserve or IPD is an independent provider of real estate performance analysis enhance.
In dealing with development in conservation areas, the publishing detailed information on real estate market returns.
general aim of authorities is to ensure that the quality of townscape is Like-for-like portfolio preserved or enhanced, though legislation gives protection to The like-for-like portfolio includes all properties that have been held individual buildings considered to be of particular heritage, for the whole period of account.
significance and value to an area.
Loan-to-value Dow Jones Sustainability indices DJSi Nominal value of borrowings expressed as a percentage of the fair A global benchmark for investors who integrate sustainability into value of property assets.
London Benchmarking Group LBG EPRA adjustments LBG is a global network of 150 companies using the LBG Model to Standard adjustments to calculate EPS and NAV as set out by EPRA in improve the management, measurement and reporting of corporate its Best Practice and Policy Recommendations.
EPRA EPS Long Term incentive Plan LTiP EPRA EPS is the level of recurring income arising from core An arrangement under which an employee is awarded options in the operational activities.
It excludes all items which are not relevant to Company at nil cost, subject to a period of continued employment and the underlying and recurring portfolio performance.
the attainment of NAV and TSR targets over a three-year vesting EPRA NAV period.
EPRA NAV aims to provide a consistent long-term performance Net asset value NAV measure, by adjusting reported net assets for items that are not Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of ordinary shares at expected to crystallise in normal circumstances, such as the fair value the balance sheet date.
of derivative financial instruments and deferred tax on property valuation surpluses.
EPRA NAV includes the potentially dilutive effect Net asset value return of outstanding options granted over ordinary shares.
The change in EPRA NAV per ordinary share plus dividends paid per ordinary share expressed as a percentage of the EPRA NAV per share EPRA net assets at the beginning of the year.
Net assets used in the EPRA NAV calculation, excluding additional equity if all vested share options were exercised.
operational Energy kg Co2 m2 This is the carbon dioxide produced in supplying energy for the EPRA triple net asset value day-to-day operation of a building.
EPRA NAV incorporating the fair value of debt which is not included in the reported net assets.
Property income Distribution PiD A PID is a distribution by a REIT to its shareholders paid out of EPRA vacancy qualifying profits.
A REIT is required to distribute at least 90% of its The rental value of vacant property available expressed as a qualifying profits as a PID to its shareholders.
percentage of ERV of the total portfolio.
Real Estate investment Trust REiT Equivalent yield A REIT is a tax designation for an entity or group investing in real Equivalent yield is the internal rate of return from an investment estate that reduces or eliminates corporation tax providing certain property, based on the gross outlays for the purchase of a property criteria obligations set out in tax legislation are met.
including purchase costs, reflecting reversions to current market rent, and such items as voids and non-recoverable expenditure but Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent tCo2e disregarding potential changes in market rents.
Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent, which is a measure that allows the comparison of emissions from other greenhouse gases relative to European Public Real Estate Association EPRA one unit of CO2.
It is calculated by multiplying the greenhouse gas EPRA develops policies for standards of reporting disclosure, ethics emissions by its 100-year global warming potential.
Total property return Estimated rental value ERV Net property income and the valuation movement and realised ERV is the market rental value of properties owned by the Group, surpluses or deficits arising from the portfolio for the year expressed estimated by the Groups valuers.
as percentage return on the valuation at the beginning of the year Fair value adjusted for acquisitions and capital expenditure.
The amount at which an asset or liability could be exchanged between Total Shareholder Return TSR two knowledgeable willing unconnected parties in an arms length The change in the market price of an ordinary share plus dividends transaction at the valuation date.
reinvested expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning of the year.
Shaftesbury annual report 2013 oTHER INFoRMATIoN 118 Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is EMAS certified: its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001 and it is a CarbonNeutral company.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on munken polar, a paper containing virgin fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC certified forests.
The pulp is bleached using both Elemental Chlorine Free ECF and Totally Chlorine Free TCF processes.
co. uk} Print: Park Communication {www.
co. uk} Shaftesbury annual report 2013 oTHER INFoRMATIoN SHAFTESBURY PLC PEGASUS HOUSE 37 43 SACKVILLE STREET LONDON W1S 3DL T: 020 7333 8118 F: 020 7333 0660
