Review of operations 01-26 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Governance 27-61 TO THE MEMBERS OF WORKSPACE GROUP PLC Financial statements 62-95 PARENT COMPANy Shareholder information 96-100 We have audited the Parent Company financial statements OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE of Workspace Group PLC for the year ended 31 March COMPANIES ACT 2006 2013 which comprise the Parent Company Balance Sheet In our opinion: and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework t he part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law audited has been properly prepared in accordance and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United with the Companies Act 2006: and Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
t he information given in the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the Parent Company RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND financial statements are prepared is consistent with AUDITORS the Parent Company financial statements.
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 61, the Directors are MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT responsible for the preparation of the Parent Company BY EXCEPTION financial statements and for being satisfied that they give We have nothing to report in respect of the following a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to express an opinion on the Parent Company financial report to you if, in our opinion: statements in accordance with applicable law and a dequate accounting records have not been kept by International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing have not been received from branches not visited by Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part This report, including the opinions, has been prepared of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited for and only for the Companys members as a body in are not in agreement with the accounting records and accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies returns: or Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving c ertain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any by law are not made: or other purpose or to any other person to whom this report w e have not received all the information and is shown or into whose hands it may come save where explanations we require for our audit.
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
OTHER MATTER SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL We have reported separately on the Group financial STATEMENTS statements of Workspace Group PLC for the year ended An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 31 March 2013. and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of BOWkER ANDREWS significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: SEnIOR STATUTORy AUDITOR and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
for and on behalf of  LLP In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors information in the Annual Report and Accounts to London identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 11 June 2013 statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: g ive a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2013: h ave been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and h ave been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 91
