Notes to the Group Accounts 20.
Borrowings, other financial liabilities and other financial assets continued Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, as well as maintaining an optimal capital structure to reduce overall cost of capital.
In order to maintain this optimal structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid, issue new shares, return capital to shareholders or dispose of assets to reduce net debt.
Given the Groups strong balance sheet and sustained trading growth, the Group announced a new dividend policy in 2011 of paying a dividend of between 40% and 50% of sustainable earnings.
Further details can be found in the Chairmans statement on pages 2 and 3.
Underlying growth coupled to Return on Invested Capital ROIC is the key perceived driver of shareholder value within the Group.
The acquisition of Uniqema in 2006 reduced the ROIC, but also reduced Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC since the deal was predominantly financed through debt.
The Groups ROIC has grown steadily since the acquisition and now stands at 23.8% against a post-tax WACC of 6.3%, thus hitting the Groups target of maintaining ROIC at a higher level than the WACC.
In addition, the Group employs two widely used ratios to measure our ability to service our debt.
Both net debt EBITDA and EBITDA interest cover were well ahead of target in 2013.
The Group was in compliance with its covenant requirements throughout the year.
Additional information on progress against Key Performance Indicators can be found pages 21 to 23.
ROIC Group profit after tax before exceptional items average invested capital.
WACC weighted average cost of servicing the Groups net debt and its equity share capital Average invested capital average net assets of the Group as at the start and end of the year adjusted to add back net debt, retirement benefit liabilities, tax balances and provisions.
Provisions Environmental Restructuring Other Total m m m m At 1 January 2013 16.9 2.9 5.4 25.2 Exchange differences 0.1 - - 0.1 Released to income statement - - 1.0 1.0 Cash paid against provisions 3.1 1.8 0.3 5.2 At 31 December 2013 13.9 1.1 4.1 19.1 Analysis of total provisions 2013 2012 m m Current 6.8 7.9 Non-current 12.3 17.3 19.1 25.2 Provisions are made where a constructive or legal obligation has arisen from a past event, can be quantified and where the timing of the transfer of economic benefits relating to the provisions cannot be ascertained with any degree of certainty.
The environmental provision relates to soil and potential ground water contamination on a number of sites, both currently in use and previously occupied, in Europe and the Americas.
In relation to the environmental provision, the Directors consider that the balance will be utilised within 10 years, with the bulk of the spend in the next five years.
Provisions for remediation costs are made when there is a present obiligation, it is probable that expenditures for remediation work will be required and the cost can be estimated within a reasonable range of possible outcomes.
The costs are based on currently available facts and prior experience.
Environmental liabilities are recorded at the estimated amount at which the liability could be settled at the balance sheet date.
Remediation of environmental damage typically takes a long time to complete due to the substantial amount of planning and regulatory approvals normally required before remediation activities can begin.
In addition, increases in or releases of environmental provisions may be necessary whenever new developments occur or additional information becomes available.
Consequently, environmental provisions can change significantly.
The level of environmental provision is based on managements best estimate of the most likely outcome for each individual exposure.
Management has also assessed the worst possible case for each exposure and is confident that the Groups financial position would not be significantly affected if each case were to require this worst case settlement.
The Group has also considered the impact of discounting on its provisions and has concluded that, as a consequence of the significant utilisation expected in a relatively short timescale, the impact is not material.
