STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Group Independent Auditors Report Group Consolidated Statements Group Accounting Policies Notes to the Group Accounts Company Independent Auditors Report Company Balance Sheet Company Accounting Policies Notes to the Company Accounts 11.
Directors remuneration Detailed information concerning Directors remuneration, interests and options is shown in the parts of the Directors Remuneration Report subject to audit on pages 53 to 73 which form part of the annual report and accounts.
Retirement benefit liabilities The table below summarises the Groups net year end post-employment liabilities and activity for the year.
2013 2012 m m restated Balance sheet obligations for: Defined pension benefits 124.3 151.9 Post-employment medical benefits 11.5 13.9 135.8 165.8 Income statement charge included in profit before tax for: Defined pension benefits 16.3 18.2 Post-employment medical benefits 0.9 0.9 17.2 19.1 Remeasurements included in other comprehensive expense income for: Defined pension benefits 9.1 15.0 Post-employment medical benefits 2.7 1.1 6.4 13.9 Defined benefit schemes The Group operates defined benefit pension schemes in the UK, US and several other territories under broadly similar regulatory frameworks.
The Groups main schemes are of the final salary pension type, which provide benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life.
The level of benefits provided depends on members length of service and their salary in the final years leading up to retirement.
In the UK plans, pensions in payment are generally updated in line with the retail price index, whereas in the US plans, pensions generally do not receive inflationary increases once in payment.
With the exception of this inflationary risk in the UK, the plans face broadly similar risks, as described on pages 102 and 103.
The majority of benefit payments are from trustee administered funds: however there are also a number of unfunded plans where the relevant Group company meets the benefit payment obligation as it falls due.
Plan assets held in trusts are governed by local regulations and practice in each country, as is the nature of the relationship between the Group and the trustees or equivalent and their composition.
Responsibility for governance of the schemes including investment decisions and contribution schedules lies jointly with the relevant Group company and the particular schemes board of trustees.
The board of trustees must be composed of representatives in accordance with each schemes regulations.
