e l n p o o i t e a How We Operate Like our customers, we are driven by the desires of the consumer and our aim is to identify, anticipate and satisfy their unmet needs.
We do this by working intimately with our customers and by focusing on constant, sustainable innovation.
From our technologies and processes, to our locations around the world, Geography our business is built around our customers.
Working in close partnership Understanding comes from close customer collaborations, and it is a simple with them, we not only anticipate, understand and satisfy their needs, but fact that we can develop better relationships and be more responsive to our also provide the inspiration that can help them achieve even greater success.
customers when we are located nearby.
We achieve this customer intimacy through: This combination of having an intimate understanding of our customers and Understanding the right people in the right place ensures that we can deliver the innovations Using our in-depth knowledge of our customers needs, we can deliver that will enable our customers to build strong brands, which in turn drives our targeted innovation and create value, helping them to build strong brands.
Delivering Sustainable Innovation with Our Customers Understanding customer, market and consumer needs Acting on Connecting needs customer and with product market feedback functionality Customer Intimacy Clearly Connecting communicating functionality with performance our ingredients benefits to our and technologies customers Delivering sustainable, market-leading innovations 08 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 P v o r n n u I O y S t i u il s b t a a n i i n a a t s b i u l i S t y STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Chairmans Statement Chief Executives Statement Who We Are & What We Do How We Operate Where We Operate Our Market Place Our Business Model Our Strategy Our Executive Team How We Performed Our Risks Our Sustainability Agenda P14 Business Model P28 Sustainability Our People Delivering Innovation Across the World Being close to our customers during the creative process strengthens our relationship and gives us the edge over the competition.
It also allows us to: 3,545 34 1 react more quickly to market requirements: People Countries Team improve the efficiency and value creation of our innovation processes: work in partnership with customers on specific new product developments: Our business depends upon the expertise and dedication of our better educate our customers in the benefits of working with Croda.
At every point, our people are central to our intimate In 2013, to bring our customers closer to our innovations we have made relationships, working with customers both directly and indirectly to significant investment into our facilities including: meet their needs.
This is why we work hard to recruit the best and to New R&D Centre, So Paulo, Brazil source the specialist knowledge we require.
New R&D Centre with New Claims Testing hub, Singapore Once we have found the right people we want to keep them, which New R&D Centre, Shanghai, China means investing in our workforce, providing them with the right balance of remuneration, benefits, and opportunities to develop and New Customer Training Centre, Singapore grow their careers with us.
New Customer Training Centre, So Paulo, Brazil.
We enjoy great diversity in our workforce, which can lead to new, better ways of working and thinking, driving ideas and innovations.
It also allows us to better represent the diversity of the communities in Delivering Innovative Ingredients which we operate.
Inter final Innovation: R&D Innovation Our primary route where we invest the most in our people and technologies to: globalise our R&D to ensure that each innovation achieves maximum Creating new intellectual property and know how, whilst maximising market impact: the potential of existing patents is the lifeblood of our business.
Innovation plays a critical role across our operations from the way we move closer to our customers by investing in new and expanded R&D run our business, to how we work with our customers to deliver facilities.
It is all about differentiating ourselves from the 2.
It is how we protect our current and future sales and Seeking partnerships with: how we improve Group margins.
customers in order to develop desired solutions: Sustainability world-leading academic institutions to remain at the cutting edge: developers of emerging technologies from small and medium enterprises Whether driven by our own business ethics, consumer demand or SMEs.
government policy, sustainability spans every area of our business.
Exter final Innovation: Acquisitions We are fully committed to: using renewable raw materials and environmentally sensitive processes: producing ingredients that help Identify and invest to: improve the sustainable credentials of end products: looking after our find new opportunities through our Technology Investment Group TIG : people and the communities in which we operate.
acquire sustainable and specialist technologies.
This makes us a business that our customers want to work with, with the assurance that we have a strong future ahead.
Number of employees as at 31 December 2013.
