Where We Operate Croda is a global company with locations around the world, specifically chosen to facilitate close customer working.
We are constantly investing in our existing markets and expanding into emerging markets to give our customers around the world the best, most responsive service.
Global trends, including a growing, ageing population, emerging markets, climate change and a shift in peoples expectations and behaviours, give Leading the World in Plant Cell Culture us a golden opportunity over the next decade for growth.
To take Italian based Istituto di Ricerche Biotechnologiche IRB is the advantage of this opportunity we have to focus more than ever on taking world leader in plant cell culture, a key new sustainable our business to where our potential new customers are.
As you can see technology with an important role to play in Crodas future.
we continue to invest heavily in bespoke facilities, expertise and our global Following their integration into our speciality active ingredients teams to align our business more closely than ever with our customers.
brand, Sederma, we can use our knowledge, expertise and global positioning to bring IRB technology to all of our customers.
Western Europe Employees Total Revenue 55% of Group Total 38% of Group Total 1,933 414.8m Solar Power at Atlas Point 10 Manufacturing Sites 9 Sales Offices A $2.3m investment generating 5% of the sites electricity.
Eastern Europe, Middle East & Africa Employees Total Revenue 2% of Group Total 7% of Group Total 71 74.4m 0 Manufacturing Sites 6 Sales Offices North America Total Revenue Employees 26% of Group Total 13% of Group Total 474 277.3m 2 Manufacturing Sites 3 Sales Offices Latin America Employees Total Revenue Improving Customer Service in 6% of Group Total 11% of Group Total Latin America Last year we opened a number of 206 115.9m Customer Training Centres, including one in So Paulo, Brazil.
1 Manufacturing Sites 7 Sales Offices Close to the head offices of several Asia Pacific of our key global and regional accounts, this new facility will help Employees Total Revenue us to increase customer contact to 24% of Group Total 18% of Group Total strengthen relationships and better educate customers about our products.
861 194.6m 5 Manufacturing Sites 10 Sales Offices 10 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Chairmans Statement Chief Executives Statement Who We Are & What We Do How We Operate Where We Operate Our Market Place Our Business Model Our Strategy Our Executive Team How We Performed Our Risks Our Sustainability Agenda Investing in our First Manufacturing Site in China In 2013, we underlined our commitment to the critical Asian Sipos manufacturing capabilities region by acquiring a 65% stake in Sipo in Sichuan Province, together with our marketing China.
Sipo specialises in producing ingredients using expertise and sales force naturally derived, renewable raw materials.
The acquisition infrastructure are an exciting brings with it new technology that will expand our portfolio combination.
We will have a stronger across a number of core sectors, including Polymer Additives, platform in niche markets and which serves the plastics and packaging market, and renewable technologies which will Lubricants.
It moves us closer to our Asian customers and allow us to develop our customer allows local production for faster growth.
base and drive sales growth in Asia.
Steve Foots Group Chief Executive Supporting Growth in Asia Pacific Located on the Singapore mainland, close to the head offices of several of our key global and regional customers and suppliers, our new facilities will help us to achieve even greater customer intimacy.
The operation includes a hair and skincare salon, an expanded Product Validation Claim Support Laboratory and a large training area for our people and our customers.
Key: Head Office New Customer Training Centres Manufacturing Sites New R&D Centres Sales Offices Number of employees as at 31 December 2013.
