Company Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Croda International Plc Report on the Parent Company Financial Statements Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Our Opinion In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: Adequacy of accounting records and information and Give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Companys affairs explanations received as at 31 December 2013: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom in our opinion: Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and We have not received all the information and explanations we require Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the for our audit: or Companies Act 2006.
Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder from branches not visited by us: or of this report.
The Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors What we have audited Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the The Parent Company financial statements, which are prepared by Croda accounting records and returns.
International plc, comprise: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
The Parent Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2013: The notes to the Parent Company financial statements, which Directors Remuneration include a summary of significant accounting policies and other Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our explanatory information.
opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law have not been made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their this responsibility.
preparation comprises applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our In applying the financial reporting framework, the Directors have made a opinion, information in the Annual Report is: number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates.
In making such estimates, they have made Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Parent assumptions and considered future events.
Company financial statements: or Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have with, our knowledge of the Parent Company acquired in the course of been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts the performing our audit: or Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
What an audit of financial statements involves Responsibilities for the Financial Statements We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining and the audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements Our responsibilities and those of the Directors sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
on pages 76 and 77, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of This includes an assessment of: the Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent give a true and fair view.
Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent adequately disclosed: Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the the Directors: and Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
The overall presentation of the financial statements.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Parent of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving Company financial statements and to identify any information that is these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Croda Opinions on matters prescribed by the International Plc for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Parent Company financial Ian Morrison Senior Statutory Auditor statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent Company for and on behalf of  LLP financial statements.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors, Leeds The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
5 March 2014 122 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013
