STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our Board Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Other Disclosures Bonus Plan and LTIP Policy Choice of performance measures and approach to target setting The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan, PSP and all-employee The performance metrics that are used for annual bonus and long-term plans according to their respective rules and in accordance with the Listing incentive plans are a subset of the Groups KPIs.
Rules and HMRC rules where relevant.
The Committee retains discretion, Under the annual bonus plan, an underlying profit-based objective such as consistent with market practice, in a number of regards to the operation income growth will be used as the primary performance metric.
Such a and administration of these plans.
These include the following albeit with measure will be used as it looks to reward two KPIs that are used within quantum and performance targets restricted to the descriptions detailed in the business, namely the growth in underlying profitability and the efficient the preceding policy table : use of working capital.
Other metrics based on the Groups KPIs may be Who participates in the plans: used in the future where it is felt that they provide clear alignment with the evolving strategy of the Group.
In any event, the achievement of profitable The timing of grant of award and or payment: growth whilst ensuring that efficient management of capital is fully The size of an award and or payment: encouraged and will be central to the Committees deliberations.
The determination of vesting: In terms of long-term performance targets, PSP awards vest subject to Dealing with a change of control e. g. the timing of testing performance i challenging EPS growth targets that are aligned with the long-term levels targets or restructuring of the Group: of earnings growth targeted by the Group and ii relative TSR targets which Determination of a good bad leaver for incentive plan purposes based provide clear alignment of interests between shareholders and executives.
on the rules of each plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: Targets are set based on sliding scales that take account of internal Adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, planning and external market expectations for the Group.
Only modest corporate restructuring and special dividends : and rewards are available for delivering threshold performance levels with The annual review of performance conditions for the annual bonus plan maximum rewards requiring substantial out-performance of the and PSP from year to year.
challenging plans approved at the start of each year.
The Committee also retains the ability to adjust the targets and or set No performance targets are applied to the all-employee plans which are different measures and alter weightings for the annual bonus plan and to aimed at encouraging broad based equity ownership.
adjust targets for the LTIP if events occur e. g. material divestment of a Further details of the annual bonus metrics to be used for 2014 are set out Group business which cause it to determine that the conditions are no in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The targets for awards to be longer appropriate and the amendment is required so that the conditions granted under the PSP in 2014 are consistent with the policy set out above achieve their original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
and are also set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
All historic awards that were granted but remain outstanding detailed on How Executive Directors Remuneration Policy relates to the wider Group page 69 of the Annual Report on Remuneration, remain eligible to vest The Remuneration Policy provides an overview of the structure that based on their original award terms.
operates for the Group Executive Directors and those senior Executives Shareholding guidelines forming the Group Executive Committee noting, however, that there are The Committee operates share ownership guidelines which apply to all some differences in PSP participation and levels of quantum within this Executive Directors and members of the Group Executive Committee.
A key conclusion of the review of Executive remuneration undertaken in The Committee is made aware of pay structures across the wider Group 2013 was that the current share ownership guidelines should be increased when setting the remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
The key to further align the interests of Executives with shareholders.
As a result, the difference is that, overall, the remuneration policy for Executive Directors is Group Chief Executive will in future be subject to a share ownership more heavily weighted towards variable pay than for other employees.
guideline of 200% of salary previously 100% of salary and other Executive Base salaries are operated under the same policy as detailed in the Directors of 150% of salary also previously 100% of salary.
Remuneration Policy table with any comparator groups used as a It is expected that the revised guideline will be met within a five-year time reference point being country and or industry specific.
The Committee period from its adoption or date of joining for new appointments through considers the general basic salary increase for the broader Group and, in a combination of share purchases and the retention of incentive shares.
particular, the UK based employees when determining the annual salary On the exercise of Sharesave options or the vesting of awards from the review for the Executive Directors.
Companys long-term incentive plans, Executives are required to retain The performance related bonus scheme operates on a tiered basis from shares awarded representing 50% of the net of tax gain until the 125% of salary down to 30% of salary across the most senior global grades.
ownership target is met or exceeded.
