Group Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Croda International Plc Report on the Group Financial Statements Our opinion Overview of our Audit Approach In our opinion the Group financial statements, defined below: Materiality Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect year then ended: of misstatements.
We also took into account that matters below these thresholds may still be considered material for qualitative reasons.
Have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 12.5 million, being 5% of the Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Groups consolidated profit before tax.
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder misstatements identified during our audit above 0.5 million as well as of this report.
misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for What we have audited qualitative reasons.
The Group financial statements, which are prepared by Croda Overview of the scope of our audit International Plc, comprise: The Group is structured along three business segments, being Consumer The Group balance sheet as at 31 December 2013: Care, Performance Technologies and Industrial Chemicals.
Within these The Group income statement and statement of comprehensive income segments are 40 individual trading units, which, together with 8 central for the year then ended: units that comprise the Groups centralised functions, are consolidated in the preparation of the Group financial statements.
The Group statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended: and In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed by us, as the Group engagement The notes to the Group financial statements, which include a summary team, or component auditors from other PwC network firms operating of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those European Union.
reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes financial statements as a whole.
These are cross-referenced from the financial Accordingly, of the Groups 40 trading units, we identified eight that, in our statements and are identified as audited.
view, required an audit of their complete financial information, either due to What an audit of financial statements involves their size or their risk characteristics.
Specified audit procedures over certain We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on balances were performed at a further two trading units, while further Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining testing was performed at the Group level in particular in the areas of evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements pensions, provisions, intangible assets and taxation.
As a result, audit sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements procedures were performed over reporting units comprising 84% of the are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Groups consolidated profit before tax.
This, gave us the evidence we This includes an assessment of: needed to express our opinion on the Group financial statements as a Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups whole.
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately Areas of particular audit focus disclosed: In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made a number of The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting directors: and estimates.
This required them to make assumptions and consider future The overall presentation of the financial statements.
events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in forming our own independent judgements, and evaluating the disclosures the Groups Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the in the financial statements.
audited Group financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
