Company Accounting Policies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year, unless otherwise stated.
Accounting basis The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, in compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards.
Whilst the consolidated accounts have been prepared under IFRS, as required by European law, the Companys accounts continue to be prepared under UK GAAP as permitted.
Land and buildings In the past the Companys principal properties have been valued periodically by professional valuers on an open market, existing use basis.
Following the Companys adoption of FRS 15 in 2001, no further revaluations will be carried out and previous book values will be retained.
Notwithstanding the requirements of FRS 15 all fixed assets are written down to their recoverable amount in the event that any impairment review carried out in accordance with FRS 11 indicates that the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value.
The profit or loss on the disposal of land and buildings included in the profit and loss account represents the difference between the net proceeds of sale and the net book amount.
Depreciation Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost or valuation less depreciation, where cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write down the cost of all tangible fixed assets, except freehold land, over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis.
The estimated average life for each major asset category is: Land and buildings 15 to 40 years Plant and equipment 3 to 15 years Leased assets The cost of operating leases is charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Pensions The defined benefit pension obligations of the Company are financed by contributions a separate fund.
As the Company is unable to reliably and consistently measure its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the fund, the Company accounts as though the fund was a defined contribution fund and charges contributions paid directly to the profit and loss account.
Currency translations Monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the end of the financial period.
Exchange profits or losses on trading transactions are included in the profit and loss account.
Other exchange differences arising from non-trading items are dealt with through reserves.
Financial instruments The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rates and short-term currency rate fluctuations.
Derivative financial instruments are recorded initially at cost.
Subsequent measurement depends on the designation of the instrument as either: i a hedge of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge : or ii a hedge of highly probable forecast transactions cash flow hedge : i Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of derivatives, for example interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts, that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the profit and loss account, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
ii Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the profit and loss account in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss for instance when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset for example, inventory or a liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the profit and loss account.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the profit and loss account.
Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
124 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Group Independent Auditors Report Group Consolidated Statements Group Accounting Policies Notes to the Group Accounts Company Independent Auditors Report Company Balance Sheet Company Accounting Policies Notes to the Company Accounts Employee Share Ownership Trusts Shares acquired by the Trustees, funded by the Company and held for the continuing benefit of the Company are shown as a reduction in shareholders funds.
Movements in the year arising from additional purchases by the Trustees of shares or the receipt of funds due to the exercise of options by employees are accounted for within reserves and shown as a movement in shareholders funds in the year.
Administration expenses of the trusts are charged to the Companys profit and loss account as incurred.
Share based payments Share based incentive schemes are accounted for in accordance with FRS20 Share-based Payments, which requires an expense to be recognised in the profit and loss account over the vesting period of the options.
The expense is based on the fair value of each instrument which is calculated using the BlackScholes or binomial model as appropriate.
Any expense is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of options vesting, as market-based performance criteria are not used.
Dividends All dividends, including preference dividends, are recognised as a liability when the liability is irrevocable.
Accordingly, final dividends are recognised when approved by shareholders and interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and other accounting purposes.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of profits and losses in the accounts in different periods from which they are recognised in tax assessments and primarily arise as a result of the difference between tax allowances on tangible fixed assets and the corresponding depreciation charge, and upon the pension fund deficit.
Full provision is made for the tax effects of these differences.
No provision is made for unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries where there is no commitment to remit such earnings.
Similarly, no provision is made for timing differences relating to investments in subsidiaries since realisation of such differences can be controlled and is not probable in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the timing differences can be utilised.
All taxation is calculated on the basis of the tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the profit and loss account over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Trade and other debtors Trade and other debtors are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method, less impairment losses.
Investments Shares in subsidiary undertakings Shares in subsidiary undertakings are initially stated at cost.
Provision is made where, in the opinion of the Directors, a permanent diminution in value has occurred.
Unquoted securities Investments in unquoted securities are carried at fair value unless such value cannot be reliably measured, in which case the investments are carried at cost.
Financial risk factors The Group accounting policy for financial risk factors is also relevant to the preparation of the Company financial statements and is disclosed on pages 111 and 112.
