Notes to the Group Accounts 28. Business combinations On 23 May 2013, the Group acquired the assets of the Specialty Products business of US-based Arizona Chemical for a cash consideration of $12m.
The acquisition brings a portfolio of class leading oil gelling polymers which are already used in a variety of core industries and are applicable to many more.
It also strengthens Crodas position as leaders in speciality chemicals from renewable resources.
The technologies of the acquired business are naturally derived polyamides with high bio-renewable content.
The major market at present is Personal Care where the patented SYLVACLEAR, SYLVASOL and UNICLEAR polymers offer a broad range of functionality.
The purchase also includes SYLVAGEL polymers which have found success within the Air Care segment of Home Care as well as other industries.
On 6 August 2013, the Group acquired 65% of the share capital of Sichuan Sipo Chemical Co. Ltd Sipo, a non-listed natural speciality chemicals manufacturer based in Mianyang City, Sichuan Province, China.
The majority stake was acquired from Sichuan Forever Holding Co. Ltd and certain individual shareholders for a total consideration of RMB286m.
Sichuan Forever Holding Co. Ltd will continue as the minority shareholder retaining a 35% equity interest in Sipo.
Sipo was established in 1993 and has approximately 300 employees.
Sipo makes speciality derivatives from natural raw materials and its products include primary amides, novel fatty acids and speciality esters.
A state of the art, well invested production facility, custom built in 2011, will provide additional capacity from the outset and increase Crodas proximity to customers in the region, strengthening its existing operations across China and the Groups overall position in Asia.
Sipo will also consolidate Crodas global leadership in fatty acid amides and add new technology that will enable the Group to expand its portfolio across a number of its core markets.
The following table summarises the consideration paid in respect of the above acquisitions, the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
For Sipo, the figures quoted for assets and liabilities acquired represent the Groups share of 65% for the purposes of illustrating the calculation of goodwill.
Thus the next debt figure below differs from that included in the cash flow notes on page 86 as the latter recognises 100% of Sipos opening net debt as recognised in the consolidated balance sheet.
Arizona Chemical Sipo m m Consideration 7.8 30.3 Fair value of assets and liabilities acquired Property, plant and equipment - 14.4 Intangible assets 0.7 1.4 Inventories 0.5 9.7 Trade and other receivables - 4.5 Net debt - 11.0 Trade and other payables - 6.1 Total identifiable net assets 1.2 12.9 Goodwill 6.6 17.4 Acquisition-related costs of 1.0m 2012: 0.2m have been charged to administration expenses in the Group income statement for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Included in the Group income statement in respect of the above acquisitions was 11.3m of post-acquisition revenue and 0.8m of post-acquisition pre-tax profit.
If the acquisitions had been consolidated from 1 January 2013, the Group income statement would show pro-forma revenue of 1,091.5m and pre-tax profit of 250.8m.
During 2013, the Group completed its review of the 2012 acquisition of the assets of Innovachem LLC.
This review identified 0.2m of separately identifiable intangible assets relating to Innovachems unique process technology and this amount has been reclassified from goodwill to other intangibles in 2013.
The Group also completed its review of the intangible assets acquired with IRB, another 2012 acquisition.
No separately identifiable intangible assets were identified over and above those already identified in 2012 and accordingly the goodwill balance remains unchanged.
The goodwill arising on the acquisitions completed in 2013 is attributable to the synergies expected to arise from the combination of the acquired technologies and Crodas global sales and marketing network.
In the case of Sipo, an element of the goodwill also relates to the value of establishing a presence in China.
The Group expects that the benefits of the acquisition will take a number of years to fully accrue.
