CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Exchange rates The following table sets out, for the periods and dates indicated, the period end, average, high and low exchange rates for pounds sterling expressed in uS dollars per 1.00.
Major shareholders Information regarding our major shareholders is disclosed on page 88.
None of the holders of CSR ordinary shares has voting rights that differ from those of other shareholders.
JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. as custodian of the Companys ADR programme, held approximately 1.42% of the Companys ordinary shares of 0.1p each at 10 March 2014 as nominee.
The total number of ADRs outstanding at 10 March 2014 were 2,366,572.
As of 10 March 2014, there were 191 shareholders with a uS address on the register of shareholders, representing approximately 1.65% of CSRs outstanding share capital.
Because many of our ordinary shares are held by brokers and nominees, the number of recorded shareholders in the united States may not be representative of the number of beneficial shareholders in the united States.
CSR is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by any government, person or other legal entity.
There are no arrangements known to CSR that could result in a change of control of CSR.
Agent in the United States The Companys agent for service in the united States is National Registered Agents, Inc, 160 Greentree Drive, Suite 101, Dover, Delaware 19904.
Documents on display under the Exchange Act, we are required to file reports and other information with the SEC.
Copies of these reports and other information, when so filed, including documents referred to in this Annual Report, may be inspected without charge and may be obtained at prescribed rates at the public reference facilities maintained by the SEC at Judiciary Plaza, 100 F Street, N. E. Washington, D. C. 20549.
For further information regarding the operation of the public reference room and the copy charges, please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
The SEC maintains a website at www.
gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding registrants that make electronic filings with the SEC using its EDGAR system.
As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from the rules of the Exchange Act prescribing the filing and content of quarterly reports and proxy statements, and our executive officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
This Annual Report is also available, free of charge, at www.
You may also obtain copies of this Report, free of charge, by mail by requesting a copy from the Company Secretary.
The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report.
Memorandum and Articles of Association The following summarises certain provisions of the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association and applicable English law, as currently in effect.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the united Kingdom or by writing to the Company Secretary.
The Companys Articles of Association of CSR plc were filed with the u. S. Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 6-K on 24 January 24 2011.
Copies of the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, as currently in force, are available from the u. S. Securities and Exchange Commission website at www.
gov Objects and purposes CSR plc was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 26 March, 2001 with the name Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings Limited, as a private company limited by shares under the Companies Act 2006.
On 10 July, 2001, CSR was re-registered as a public company limited by shares with the name Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings plc: on 25 October, 2002, CSR was reregistered as a private company limited by shares with the name Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings Limited: and on 19 February, 2004, it was re-registered as a public company limited by shares with the name CSR plc registered number 04187346.
Directors The business of the Company is conducted under the supervision of the Board.
