Corporate and share information History and development CSR plc is the holding company of an international group of companies, the principal activities of which are the design and development of semiconductor integrated circuits, including platforms, and software that are used by many of the worlds leading technology and consumer-focused companies in a wide range of end markets.
For more information on CSRs business and strategy, please see pages 8 to 15 of the Strategic Report.
CSR is domiciled in England and Wales, and its registered office and principal place of business is at Churchill House, Cambridge Business Park, Cowley Road, Cambridge, CB4 0WZ.
CSR was established in Cambridge in April 1999 by an engineering and marketing team that previously worked at Cambridge Consultants Limited, a technology and consulting firm based in Cambridge, that transferred certain assets, including the assignment and license on a non-exclusive royalty free basis of intellectual property rights, to CSR in exchange for ordinary shares.
CSR plc the holding company was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 26 March 2001 with the name Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings Limited registered number 04187346, as a private company limited by shares under the Companies Act 1985.
On 10 July 2001, the company was re-registered as a public company limited by shares with the name Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings plc.
On 25 October 2002, it was re-registered as a private company limited by shares with the name Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings Limited: and on, 19 February 2004, it was re-registered as a public company limited by shares with the name CSR plc.
CSR ordinary shares were admitted to the Official List of the uK Listing Authority and to trading on the main market of the London Stock Exchange in March 2004.
CSRs shares are listed on the premium segment of the Official List maintained by the uK Listing Authority.
In connection with the acquisition of SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc. SiRF, CSR registered its ordinary shares in 2009 pursuant to Section 12 g of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and became an SEC reporting company.
In connection with the acquisition of Zoran Corporation Zoran in August 2011, ordinary shares issued by CSR in the form of American Depositary Shares ADSs, each ADS representing four ordinary shares in CSR plc were listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market and commenced trading on the NASDAQ Global Select market.
In the last four years, we have sought to broaden our technological base and product range through a series of acquisitions, of which the most material were: In June 2009, we acquired SiRF, for a consideration of $281.5 million satisfied by the issue of ordinary shares in CSR plc to holders as at 26 June 2009 of SiRF common stock, at a ratio of 0.741 of a CSR ordinary share for each SiRF share of common stock.
In July 2010, we acquired APT Licensing Limited, a leading ultra-high-quality codec developer, for a consideration of $4.25 million.
In August 2011, we acquired Zoran, a leading provider of digital solutions for the digital entertainment and digital imaging markets, for a consideration of $440.5 million, satisfied by: i the payment of $316.4 million in cash being a payment of $6.26 in cash for each share of Zoran common stock held : and ii the issue of ordinary shares in CSR plc in the form of ADSs at a ratio of 0.589 ordinary shares for each Zoran share of common stock, to holders of Zoran Corporation common stock as at 31 August 2011.
In October 2012, we disposed of our handset connectivity and handset location developments operations to Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd Samsung for $310 million in cash.
Along with the disposal, we also transferred 311 people to Samsung.
The cash consideration is subject to a maximum adjustment of a $5 million increase or decrease in certain circumstances, linked to the progress made in finalising the development of a Wi-Fi Bluetooth combination connectivity chip, to which both CSR and Samsung will have rights to exploit in their respective end markets.
Please refer to the Strategic Report on page 22 for further information.
upon completion of this transaction, Samsung Electronics Europe Holding Coperatief u.
A. invested $34.4 million in return for CSR ordinary shares.
On 15 January 2014, Samsung disposed of their entire holding of ordinary shares in the Company.
Research and development We devote a substantial portion of our resources to identifying, evaluating, and developing ideas that we can bring to market as innovative technologies and products for our customers.
We employ 1,352 people in research and development, across 17 R&D centres in 7 different countries.
Our R&D expenditure was approximately $273.1 million in 2013 compared to $290.4 million in 2012 and $241.8 million in 2011.
For more information on our business and the products and technologies in which we are investing see pages 8 to 15.
For more information on our financial results and investment in R&D see page 25 of the Strategic Report.
Sales and marketing Our sales and marketing function is centered in Cambridge, united Kingdom and San Jose, united States with sales and liaison offices in Boston and Plano, Texas, united States: Haifa, Israel: Taipei, Taiwan: Seoul, South Korea: Tokyo, Japan: Singapore: Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen, China.
We market to original equipment manufacturers and original design manufacturers, principally through our direct sales force and, in North America, through sales representatives.
CSR also markets its products through a global network of distributors.
Our marketing efforts are supported by a team of applications engineers that provide technical support and assistance to existing and potential customers in designing, testing and qualifying systems that incorporate our products.
This support is generally provided without charge to customers who have the potential to purchase large volumes of products.
An important part of our marketing efforts involves providing technical support to product developers to encourage them to design products using our chips.
For this purpose, we provide a range of development kits and tools.
Manufacturing We are a fabless semiconductor company, which means we subcontract all aspects associated with the manufacture wafer fabrication, packaging and testing of our products prior to shipping to our customers.
TSMC and ASE remain the primary vendors for the volume of manufacturing, which is carried out at a number of locations across the world, primarily comprising Taiwan, South Korea, China, the united States and Singapore.
We do not have long-term contracts with any of these third parties, and thus have no contractual assurance as to their long-term availability or the costs associated with the supply of products and services.
154 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
