CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Additional information Glossary accelerometer: an electromechanical device that measures acceleration forces.
It can be used for example to measure a paths gradient in relation to ones movement along that path ADR: negotiable certificate issued by a uS bank representing a specified number of shares or one share in a foreign stock that is traded on a uS exchange.
ADRs are denominated in uS dollars, with the underlying security held by a uS financial institution overseas.
ADRs help to reduce administration and duty costs that would otherwise be levied on each transaction ADS: a uS dollar-denominated equity share of a foreign-based company available for purchase on an American stock exchange.
American Depositary Shares ADSs are issued by depository banks in the uS under agreement with the issuing foreign company: the entire issuance is called an American Depositary Receipt ADR and the individual shares are referred to as ADSs algorithm: a term describing a formula or set of steps for solving a particular problem application processor: a computer or computer chip that processes data in contrast with one that performs control functions attach rate: represents the rate of adoption of additional products or technologies on to the primary or hosting product baseband: describing that part of a radio telecommunication system in which information is processed before modulating on to, or after demodulating off, a radio frequency RF carrier wave beacon: an indoor proximity positioning tool, typically Bluetooth Smart powered, that can notify nearby devices such as smartphones of its presence BiCMOS or Bi-polar CMOS: is a process which combines bipolar junction transistors on CMOS technology.
The combination utilises the high speed, high gain and low output characteristics of the bipolar technology with the high density logic gates of the CMOS technology.
It has advantages for RF performance, reduced power consumption and low noise circuits bipolar: bipolar refers to the enhancement of the conduction of current within a transistor that enables the control of a larger electrical current thereby providing an amplified signal bill of materials: a list of the individual parts or material which comprise a finished product and the cost of each of those individual parts Bluetooth: is an open wireless protocol for exchanging data over short distances from fixed and mobile devices Bluetooth Smart formerly known as Bluetooth low energy or BTLE : is designed to work side-by-side with and complement Bluetooth.
It operates in 2.4 GHz ISM band.
Devices using ultra low power Bluetooth will be smaller and more energy-efficient than their Bluetooth counterparts cellular: derives from cellphone and means a mobile phone or other device which communicates through a network of radio cells CES: Consumer Electronics Show: an international exhibition held annually, owned and produced by the Consumer Electronics Association, the technology trade association representing the uS consumer electronics industry CMOS: Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor technology: a semiconductor process technology that uses planar transistors to make chips that consume relatively low power and permit a high level of integration chip: short for a microchip: semiconductor device or integrated circuit cloud: in common usage, the term the cloud is essentially a metaphor for the Internet: the phrase in the cloud can refer software, platforms and infrastructure that are sold as a service, i. e. remotely through the Internet.
codec: short for compressor decompressor, a codec is any technology for compressing and decompressing data.
Codecs can be implemented in software, hardware or a combination of both.
Some popular codecs for computer video include MPEG and Indeo.
In telecommunications it is short for coder decoder, a device that encodes or decodes a signal.
For example, telephone companies use codecs to convert binary signals transmitted on their digital networks to analog signals converted on their analog networks co-exist co-existence: means the ability of two systems to operate in parallel without interfering with the other compass: a compass is a device for showing your relative position to due north, adopted within electronic devices to provide a GPS fix connectivity: enabling two electronic devices to communicate with each other and transfer data voice audio music picture word files using radio waves Connectivity Centre: a term first promulgated by CSR in its application to wireless connectivity solutions: the Connectivity Centre brings together many aspects of short range wireless connectivity products with excellent co-existence capable of operating concurrently without degradation in optimum performance of each of the individual functions Console: a computer game console is a device that outputs a video signal to display a video game: it can be a machine designed for consumers to use for playing video games on a television, or home computer, or it can be in the form of a handheld game console CSP: Chip-Scale Package: a semiconductor package which is as small as the semiconductor chip and is used for small form factor applications such as mobile phones, PDAs and wireless devices CSR Group: CSR plc and its subsidiaries design win: CSR records a design win when a product using one of its ICs becomes qualified die: another word for chip: often used to refer to the chips whilst they are still an integral part of the silicon wafer or where they have been cut from the wafer but are, as yet, unpackaged www.
indb 171 11 03 2014 21:17 Additional information continued digital: the representation of data by a series of bits or discrete values such as 0s and 1s dye-sub: a dye-sublimation printer or dye-sub printer is a computer printer which employs a printing process that uses heat to transfer dye onto materials such as a plastic, card, paper, or fabric ERP System: Enterprise Resource Planning System is a company wide computer software system used to manage and co-ordinate internal and external resources.
The system facilitates the flow and management of information to improve data sharing and decision making using a computer network FM or FM Radio: is a radio wave broadcast technology that conveys sound voice and music using a carrier wave which varies its frequency during transmission, producing high quality audio clarity and tone fabless: short for fabricationless, a business model used in the semiconductor industry, where the manufacture or fabrication of ICs is subcontracted to a foundry fabless semiconductor company: company that uses a third party semiconductor fabrication service to manufacture silicon chips as opposed to fabrication facilities owned directly feature phone: a mobile phone which has added functionality over and above a base model designed specifically to meet the requirements of a particular market segment.
Typically these features can include a digital camera, Bluetooth connectivity, FM radio or MP3 player.
These phones are intended to occupy the mid-market segment foundry: a semiconductor manufacturing site that makes integrated circuits gaming: a term describing the playing a video, internet or computer game GNSS: A satellite navigation system system of satellites that provide autonomous geo-spatial positioning with global coverage.
It allows small electronic receivers to determine their location longitude, latitude, and altitude to high precision within a few metres using time signals transmitted along a line of sight by radio from satellites: the signals also allow the electronic receivers to calculate the current local time to high precision, which allows time synchronisation with global coverage may be termed a global navigation satellite system or GNSS GPS: Global Positioning Systems: a satellite based radio navigation system that allows receiving devices to take an accurate location fix of the device on the surface of the earth.
Positions are derived by measuring the time of arrival of signals broadcast from the constellation of satellites, and knowledge of the instantaneous positions of the satellites.
The information required to calculate this being broadcast at a very low data rate by the satellites themselves, and is known as almanac and ephemeris data gyro: gyroscope is a device for measuring or maintaining orientation in relation to another reference point HID: Human Interface Device: a computer device that interacts directly with and often takes input from humans and may deliver data to humans IC or integrated circuit: a semiconductor device consisting of many thousands or millions of interconnected transistors and other components indoor location: positioning and navigation in locations such as shopping centres, airports, convention centres, and other pedestrian areas Infotainment: term and popular buzzword for a media device or service that delivers a combination of information and entertainment.
The content delivered via infotainment is designed to be informative yet entertaining enough to attract and maintain the consumers interest IoT: Internet of Things: a computing concept that describes a future where everyday physical objects will be connected to the internet and be able to identify themselves to other devices ISO: International Standards Organisation: the international organisation responsible for developing and maintaining worldwide standards for manufacturing, environmental management systems, computers, data communications, and many other fields ISO 14000: a series of standards related to environmental management that exists to help organizations a minimize how their operations processes etc.
negatively affect the environment i. e. cause adverse changes to air, water, or land : b comply with applicable laws, regulations, and other environmentally oriented requirements, and c continually improve in the aforementioned matters ISO 9000: a series of international standards for quality assurance in business practices, ratified by the ISO beginning in 1987.
Certification of ISO 9000 compliance is important for selling many types of goods and services including data-communications equipment and services low latency: low latency concerns the management of delays that occur between an input and a corresponding output that reduces them to such an extent as to render them unnoticeable to the human eye or ear.
In respect of CSRs new audio coding technology it reduces the delay, or latency, of stereo audio signals over Bluetooth connectivity, effectively enabling consumers to watch video while listening to synchronised wireless audio MEMS:  systems: the technology of very small mechanical devices driven by electricity memory: any device that can store data in machine-readable format which may include RAM, ROM and Flash MP3: a file format which compresses or shrinks voice and music files for transfer between one electronic device to another whilst retaining CD quality audio NFC or Near Field Communication: is a short-range high frequency wireless communication technology which enables the exchange of data between devices over a distance of about four centimetres.
Its application includes secure payment transactions using the customers mobile phone or transfer of files for example photo images from a digital camera to a PC ODM: or Original Design Manufacturer: a manufacturer that designs and manufactures equipment for another company who will, in turn sell this to the end-user 172 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
indb 172 11 03 2014 21:17 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information OEM: or Original Equipment Manufacturer: a manufacturer that sells equipment to retail and wholesale outlets OHAS 18001: is a British Standard for occupational health and safety management systems: it exists to help organisations put in place demonstrably sound occupational health and safety performance: it is widely seen as the worlds most recognised occupational health and safety management systems standard OSAT: Outsourced Semiconductor Assembly and Test PC: personal computer PDA: personal digital assistant: a pocket-sized personal computer Personal Navigation Device or PND: is a portable electronic product which combines a positioning capability such as GPS and navigation functions and enables the user to find out where they are located and get directions to move from one place to another package: the package of a semiconductor is the physical and electrical interface between the chip and the system in which it operates platform: a set of hardware and software that provides the core functionality of an end product or a subsystem within the end product e. g. an auto navigation platform consists of an Embedded Processor OS with visualization capabilities GPS combined with navigation algorithms and necessary peripherals: a smartphone platform consists of an Apps Processor OS Modem combined with voice, visualization & data communication protocols and necessary peripherals: a wireless audio platform consists of an audio DSP Bluetooth or another wireless link combined with audio algorithms and necessary peripherals playback: the characteristic of a device to be able to play selected music or video tracks which are stored on that device product qualification: the approval of a product or process for use by an ODM or OEM protocol: a method by which two dissimilar systems can communicate RF: radio frequency: frequencies of electromagnetic waves between approximately 3 kHz and 300 GHz ROM: read only memory SA 8000: is an auditable certification standard that encourages organizations to develop, maintain, and apply socially acceptable practices in the workplace.
Samsung Group: Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. and its subsidiaries Samsung Transaction: disposal by CSR plc of its handset connectivity and handset location development operations to Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. for $310 million in cash, along with the transfer of 311 people, which completed on 4 October 2012: the consideration was subject to a maximum adjustment of $5 million increase or decrease in certain circumstances, linked to the progress made in finalising the development of a WiFi Bluetooth combination connectivity chip, to which both CSR and Samsung will have the rights to exploit in their respective end markets SDK: software development kit semiconductor: a material, typically crystalline, that can be altered to allow electrical current to flow or not flow in a pattern: common semiconductors are silicon, germanium and gallium-arsenide and the term is also used to apply to ICs made from these materials silicon: a semiconducting material used to make wafers, widely used in the semiconductor industry as the basic material for integrated circuits single lens reflex camera: a camera that typically uses a mirror and prism system hence reflex, from the mirrors reflection that permits the photographer to view through the lens and see exactly what will be captured, contrary to viewfinder cameras where the image could be significantly different from what will be captured short range: Bluetooth is principally used for communicating over ranges of up to ten metres smartphone: a generic name for a voice centric mobile phone that also offers advanced capabilities often using a computer like operating system to enable PC functionality soundbar: a soundbar is a special loudspeaker enclosure that creates a reasonable stereo effect from a single cabinet: they are much wider than they are tall, partly for acoustical reasons, but also so that they can be mounted above or below a display device e. g. above a computer monitor or under a television or home theater screen soundbox: a standalone wireless speaker speaker dock: a cradle for a portable media player that serves to charge and connect the unit to a receiving device and enable music to be heard from its speakers stereo headset: a mobile headset which connects to a mobile phone, PDA, MP3 player or other device using Bluetooth and sits on both ears of the user SoC: System on chip is a technology that takes all the necessary electronic circuits and parts for a complete system and integrates them into a single circuit Silicon chip software solution: a solution where instructions and data are read from memory or memories and then the instructions interpreted and executed by a microprocessor to modify the data in the intended way soundbar: a special sometimes wireless loudspeaker which creates a stereoor surround-sound effect from a single cabinet, usually much wider than it is high, and mounted above or below a display device, e. g. atop a computer monitor or beneath a television screen www.
indb 173 11 03 2014 21:17 Additional information continued tablet PC : a type of notebook computer that has an LCD screen on which the user can write using a special-purpose pen, or stylus.
The handwriting is digitized and can be converted to standard text through handwriting recognition, or it can remain as handwritten text.
The stylus also can be used to type on a pen-based key layout where the lettered keys are arranged differently than a QWERTY keyboard Tier One: a description of a leading, normally global manufacturer that supplies products in high volume to end user markets touch interface: touch sensitive interfaces can be found on many mobile devices such as smartphones or tablet computers: they work by your finger touching the screen: the touching is detected and translated by the device into instructions: as well as tapping, the screen can sense swiping and pinching actions wafer: a disc made of a semiconducting material such as silicon, usually between 150mm 6 and 300mm 12 in diameter, in which integrated circuits are manufactured: a wafer may contain several thousand individual integrated circuits wearable s : wearables are clothing and accessories incorporating computer and advanced electronic technologies: they can be worn by a consumer and often include tracking information related to health and fitness: other wearable tech gadgets include devices that have small motion sensors to take photos and sync with the users mobile devices: examples of wearable devices include watches, fitness wristbands, glasses, contact lenses, e-textiles and smart fabrics, headbands, beanies and caps, and jewellery wideband speech: often referred to as High Definition voice or HD voice: refers to the next generation of voice quality for telephony audio resulting in high definition voice quality compared to standard digital telephony toll quality: it extends the frequency range of audio signals transmitted over telephone lines, resulting in higher quality speech Wi-Fi : Wireless Fidelity is a technology that allows an electronic device to exchange data or connect to the internet wirelessly using uHF radio waves WLCSP: Wafer Level Chip Scale Packaging: the technology of packaging a chip at the wafer level instead of the traditional process of assembling the package after the wafer has been diced into individual chips see CSP yield: when used in connection with manufacturing, the ratio of the number of usable products to the total number of products on a wafer 174 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
indb 174 11 03 2014 21:17 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Trademarks and registered trademarks The following is a list of CSR trademarks and registered trademarks that appear in the Annual Report.
Energy CSR1001 CSR8645 MAPX SiRFstarIV aptX CSR1010 CSR9800 Push every Boundary SiRFstarV aptX Low Latency CSR1011 CSRC9300 Quatro SiRFusion BlueCore CSR1012 CVC RoadTunes SyncLock VibeHub COACH CSR8350 DDFA SiRF CSR & Logo CSR8510 DirectOffice SiRFatlasV VibePlayer CSR Energy CSR8600 GameStart SiRFatlasVI Zoran CSR1000 CSR8605 IPS SiRFprimaII unless otherwise stated, words and logos marked with or are trademarks registered or owned by CSR plc or one of its group companies and may be registered in one or more jurisdictions save that not all such marks are registered in all countries where our products are available.
Bluetooth and the Bluetooth logos are trademarks owned by Bluetooth SIG, Inc. and licensed to CSR.
Wi-Fi, Wi-Fi Alliance, WMM, Wi-Fi Protected Access, WPA, WPA2, Wi-Fi Protected Setup and Wi-Fi Multimedia are trademarks of the Wi-Fi Alliance.
Other products, services and names used in this document may have been trademarked by their respective owners.
The publication of this information does not imply that any licence is granted under any patent or other rights owned by CSR plc or its affiliates.
indb 175 11 03 2014 21:17 Additional information continued 176 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
Audio Audio Precise, high quality audio solutions for all personal and shareable applications.
Precise, high quality audio solutions for all personal and shareable applications.
Bluetooth Smart Bluetooth Smart Engaging with Developers...
Engaging with Developers... Come visit the CSR Developer Forum and Wiki Come visit the CSR Developer Forum and Wiki Further.
Automotive Infotainment Automotive Infotainment Premium navigation, seamless Smartphone connectivity and hi-fidelity wireless Premium navigation, seamless Smartphone connectivity and hi-fidelity wireless audio, driven by CSR technology.
audio, driven by CSR technology.
Location Location Redefined by CSR to pinpoint your location indoors, outdoors, everywhere.
Redefined by CSR to pinpoint your location indoors, outdoors, everywhere.
Printing Printing Complete system controller and software rendering solutions for printing, Complete system controller and software rendering solutions for printing, scanning and all-in-one devices great performance with CSR technology.
scanning and all-in-one devices great performance with CSR technology.
This is the Annual Report of CSR plc for the 52 week period ended 27 December 2013.
Risk Factors, Risks related to owning CSR ordinary shares and ADSs and the section Statutory income statement information is given on page 93 of the financial statements.
This Annual Report has been sent to shareholders who have elected to receive a copy.
A entitled Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements.
This Annual Report contains references to CSRs website.
These references are for separate notice of the annual general meeting to be held on 21 May 2014 has been The Annual Report includes measures which are not defined by generally accepted convenience only we are not incorporating by reference from any information posted on issued to all shareholders.
accounting principles or GAAP, such as International Financial Reporting Standards, or www.
In this Annual Report, references to CSR, the Group, the Company, we and IFRS.
These non-IFRS measures are included in this Annual Report because the directors This Annual Report has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in our are to CSR plc and its subsidiaries including SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc. now believe they are useful to investors.
Our management uses these non-IFRS measures, reliance upon applicable English company law and the liabilities of the directors in known as CSR Technology Holdings Inc. which became a subsidiary of CSR in June 2009 along with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, in evaluating our connection with this report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by and Zoran Corporation which became a subsidiary in August 2011 and lines of business, operating performance and value creation.
These non-IFRS measures include underlying such law.
or any of them as the context may require.
research and development expenses, underlying sales, general and administrative The Strategic Report has been prepared to inform the Companys shareholders and References to the years 2013, 2012 and 2011 are to the financial periods ended 27 expenses, underlying gross profit, underlying cost of sales, underlying operating help them assess how the directors have performed their duty to promote the success of December 2013 for 2013, 28 December 2012 for 2012 and 30 December 2011 for profit, underlying net profit, underlying tax, underlying diluted earnings per share, the Company for the benefit of the Companys shareholders as a whole.
Unless otherwise stated, all non-financial statistics are at 27 December 2013. free cash flow and underlying gross margin.
For a detailed discussion of the reasons relied upon by anyone, including the Companys shareholders, for any other reason.
The This Annual Report contains forward looking statements with respect to the Groups behind this presentation and full reconciliations of each measure of the most directly Strategic Report contains a fair review of the business of the Group and a description of financial condition, operating results and business strategy, plans and objectives.
Please comparable IFRS measure, refer to the discussion on pages 150 to 153. the principal risks and uncertainties that the Group faces.
As a consequence, the Strategic see the discussion of our principal risks and uncertainties in the sections entitled Risk, Report only focuses on material issues and facts.
indd 4-6 11 03 2014 20:54 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 CSR plc Churchill House Cambridge Business Park Cowley Road Cambridge CB4 0WZ United Kingdom T 44 1223 692000 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 655547 00 CSR AR13 Cover 2 cs5.
