Corporate and share information continued ADS payment information The rights of ADS holders are set forth in the deposit agreement Deposit Agreement entered into among JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. as depositary the Depositary, ADS holders from time to time and CSR.
CSR filed the Deposit Agreement with the SEC as an exhibit to its registration statement on Form F-6 on 26 July 2011.
We summarize below some provisions of the Deposit Agreement relating to fees and charges that an ADS holder may have to pay, as well as fees and other payments made by the Depositary to CSR.
Fees payable by ADS holders under the terms of the Deposit Agreement, an ADR holder may have to pay the following service fees to the Depositary: Service Fees Issuances, including against the deposit of ordinary shares, in respect of distribution up to $5.00 per 100 ADSs or fraction thereof issued of shares, rights or other property, stock dividend, stock splits, rights, merger: exchange of securities or other transaction or event or other distribution affecting the ADSs or ordinary shares Surrender of ADSs for withdrawal of ordinary shares, cancellation up to $5.00 per 100 ADSs or fraction thereof issued or reduction of ADSs Cash distributions up to $0.05 per ADS Transfer of ADRs $1.50 per ADR presented for transfer Distribution or sale of securities, the fee being in an amount equal to the fee for the up to $5.00 per 100 ADSs or fraction thereof issued execution and delivery of ADSs that would have been charged as a result of the deposit of such securities Depositary administration services up to $0.05 per ADS payable at the sole discretion of the Depositary by billing ADS holders or by deducting charges from one or more cash dividends or other cash distributions Expenses of the Depositary incurred on behalf of ADS holders, including in connection Expenses payable at the sole discretion of the with a compliance with applicable law or regulation e. g. foreign exchange control Depositary by billing ADS holders or by deducting regulations or any law or regulation relating to foreign investment, b stock transfer or charges from one or more cash dividends or other cash other taxes and governmental charges, c electronic and facsimile transmission delivery distributions charges, d transfer or registration fees for the registration or transfers of underlying shares, and e the conversion of foreign currency into uS dollars which are paid out of such foreign currency The Depositary has agreed to waive the issuance fee for the issuance of ADSs against the deposit of ordinary shares in connection with certain events and not to charge ADS holders for certain cash dividend fees or annual administrative service fees, unless otherwise agreed with CSR.
Fees and payments made by the Depositary to CSR The Depositary has also agreed to reimburse CSR up to a certain limit for certain expenses in connection with the maintenance of the ADS programme, including investor relations activities, listing fees and reasonable legal, audit and accounting fees.
The Depositary has further agreed to waive, on an annual basis, servicing fees relating to routine corporate actions, as well as other administration and operating expenses, including maintenance of DR register, administration of ADS holders accounts and custodian reconciliation.
Other than during the first year period after the effective date of the Deposit Agreement when the Depositary reimbursed CSR up to $50,000 for certain expenses incurred by CSR in connection with the establishment of the ADS program, no fees or other payments were paid by the Depositary to CSR.
Market prices The primary trading market for CSR ordinary shares is the London Stock Exchange, where CSR ordinary shares trade under the ticker symbol CSR.
L. As of 27 December 2013, there were 187,494,513 CSR ordinary shares outstanding, of which 21,313,577 shares were held in treasury.
The following table shows the high and low market prices for CSR ordinary shares in pounds sterling for the five most recent full financial years, for each full financial quarter for the two most recent full financial years and for each month within the last six months: 156 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
