CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 General Information CSR plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is Churchill House, Cambridge Business Park, Cowley Road, Cambridge, CB4 0WZ, united Kingdom.
CSR is a provider of multifunction semiconductor platforms for the consumer electronics market.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of CSR plc the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries, together the Group drawn up to the dates indicated in the primary financial statements and are presented in uS dollars because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 3.
Going concern The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
The directors have considered future cash forecasts and revenue projections, based on prudent market data, in their consideration of going concern.
The issues surrounding going concern are discussed regularly by the Board and were evaluated as part of the Groups budget for the next financial year and the Groups longer term plans.
Note 31 includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of the financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk.
Management is currently of the opinion that the Group has adequate financial resources and a robust policy towards treasury risk and cash flow management.
The Group has $306.2 million of cash and cash equivalents, including treasury deposits and investments, as at 27 December 2013 and no debt liabilities.
The directors believe that the Group is securely placed to manage its business risks successfully despite continuing uncertainties with the economic outlook and challenging macro economic conditions.
After considering the above factors, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
2 Adoption of New and Revised Standards Standards not affecting the reported results nor the balance sheet: The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted in the current period.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements but may impact the accounting for future transactions and arrangements.
IAS 1 amended Amendments to revise the way other comprehensive income is presented IAS 12 amended Limited scope amendment recovery of underlying assets At the date of authorisation of these consolidated financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not yet been applied in these consolidated financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases, had not yet been adopted by the Eu : IFRS 1 amended First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 7 amended Financial Instruments Disclosures IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IAS 1 amended Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 16 amended Property, Plant and Equipment IAS 19 amended Employee benefits IAS 27 amended Separate Financial Statements IAS 28 amended Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures IAS 32 amended Offsetting financial assets and liabilities IAS 34 amended Interim Financial Reporting IAS 36 amended Impairment of assets IAS 39 amended Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Improvements to IFRSs December 2013 The adoption of both IFRS 9 and IFRS 13 will impact both the measurements and disclosures of Financial Instruments.
The directors anticipate that the adoption of the other Standards and Interpretations listed above in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
