Corporate and share information continued Limitation on voting rights Persons who are neither residents in the uK nor uK nationals may freely hold, vote and transfer shares in the same manner as uK residents or nationals.
Any member whose registered address is not within the uK can give the Company a postal address within the uK or an address for electronic communications at which notices may be served on him.
Otherwise, a member whose registered address is not within the uK is not entitled to receive any notice from the Company.
Restrictions on share transfers A summary of the restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Company is: 1. the Board can decline to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share: 2. registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncertifcated share is to be transferred exceeds four: or 3. the Board may decline to register any transfer of a certificated share unless: i the instrument of transfer is duly stamped or duly certified or otherwise shown to the be exempt from stamp duty and is left at the place stipulated by the Board accompanied by the share certificate to which it relates unless the transfer is by a person to whom the company is not required to issue a certificate and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the person singing the instrument of transfer to make the transfer and, if the instrument of transfer is signed by some other person on his behalf, the authority of that person to do so: ii the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share: and iii in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the share is to be transferred does not exceed four.
Change of control The Company can issue additional shares with any rights or restrictions attached to them as long as they are not restricted by any rights attached to existing shares.
These rights or restrictions can be decided by the directors so long as there is no conflict with any resolution passed by the shareholders.
The ability of the directors to issue shares with rights or restrictions that are different than those attached to the currently outstanding ordinary shares could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing change of control of the Company.
Disclosure of interests in shares The uK Financial Conduct Authority and Disclosure and Transparency Rules impose an obligation upon a person who acquires or ceases to have notifiable interest in the relevant share capital of a public company to notify the company of that fact within two days excluding weekends and bank holidays of his or her knowing of its occurrence.
The disclosure threshold is 3% and each 1% threshold above 3%.
In addition, the Companies Act 2006 provides that a public company may, by notice in writing, require a person whom the company knows or reasonably believes to be or to have been within the three preceding years, interested in the companys issued voting share capital to 1 confirm whether this is or is not the case, and 2 if this is the case, to give further information that the company requires relating to his interest or any other interest in the companys shares of which he is aware.
The Articles of Association provide that if the holder of any shares or a person who appears to be interested in those shares, fails to comply within the relevant period with any statutory notice in respect of those shares, or makes a statement in response to the notice which is false or inadequate in a material particular, CSR may restrict the rights relating to the identified shares, following a restriction notice.
The restriction notice will state that the identified shares no longer give the shareholder any right to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a shareholders meeting or to exercise any right in relation to the shareholders meetings.
Where the identified shares make up 0.25% or more in amount or in number of the existing shares of a class at the date of delivery of the restriction notice, the restriction notice can also contain the following further restrictions: i the Board can withhold any dividend or part of a dividend or other money otherwise payable in respect of the identified shares without any right to the holder to receive any shares in lieu of dividend: and ii the Board can refuse to register a transfer of any of the identified shares which are certificated shares unless the Board is satisfied that they have been sold outright to an independent third party.
Once a restriction notice has been given, the Board is free to cancel it or exclude any shares from it at any time they think fit.
In addition, it must cancel the restriction notice within seven days of being satisfied that all information requested in the statutory notice has been given.
Also, where any of the identified shares are sold and the Directors are satisfied that they were sold outright to an independent third party, they must cancel the restriction notice within seven days of receipt of the notification of the sale.
The Articles of Association do not restrict in any way the provision of the legislation which apply to failures to comply with notices under the legislation.
The uK City Code on Takeovers and Mergers imposes rigorous disclosure requirements affecting parties to a proposed takeover, their associates and persons acting in concert in relation to the shares of a company.
These requirements also extend to dealings by persons who directly or indirectly own or control either before or as a result of the dealing 1% or more of the equity shares in an offeror or offeree company or of any other class of shares relevant to the offer in question.
Rule 13d-1 of the uS Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires that a person or group acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 5% of equity securities registered under that Act discloses such information to the SEC within 10 days after the acquisition.
CSR is required by the Listing Rules of the uK Listing Authority to disclose in its annual report the identity and share interests of its directors and any persons connected with them, as defined in the Companies Act 2006, and of any person with an interest of 3% or more of its CSR ordinary shares.
162 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
