CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Persons discharging managerial responsibilities PDMRs primarily directors and some senior executives, and their connected persons, must notify a public company such as CSR in writing of the occurrence of all transactions conducted on their own account in the shares of the company, or derivatives or any other financial instruments relating to those shares within four business days of the day on which the transaction occurred.
The notification must contain specified information, including the name of the person involved, the type of transaction, the date on which it occurred, and the price and volume of the transaction.
The public company must notify a regulatory news service which will make the information public of any information notified to it in accordance with these provisions.
The notification to a regulatory news service must be made as soon as possible, and in any event by no later than the end of the business day following the receipt of the information by the company.
In addition to the directors and taking into account their roles and responsibilities, we regard as PDMRs the General Counsel, the SVP Business Group and the Chief Technical Officer.
Differences from law in host country With respect to the items described above, applicable uK law is not significantly different from applicable uS law.
Changes in share capital CSR may by ordinary resolution increase, consolidate, subdivide, or consolidate and then subdivide its shares or any of them.
Subject to the Companies Act 2006, CSR, by resolution, may determine that, as between shares resulting from a subdivision, any of them may have a preference or advantage, or may be subject to restrictions as compared with the others.
CSR may, by special resolution and with the approval of the court, reduce its share capital, share premium account, capital redemption reserve or any other undistributable reserve.
Material contracts Excluding contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business, no contracts have been entered into in the two years preceding the date of this document by CSR or any other member of the Group that are considered material to its results or operations, other than the transaction with Samsung for the transfer of CSRs handset connectivity and location technology along with 311 people.
On 17 July 2012 CSR entered into an agreement with Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. Samsung for the transfer to Samsung of CSRs handset connectivity and handset location development operations and technology along with 311 people for $310 million in cash the Transaction.
The consideration is subject to an adjustment in certain circumstances linked to progress with finalising development of a Wi-Fi Bluetooth combination connectivity chip, to which both CSR and Samsung will have rights to exploit in their respective end markets.
The maximum adjustment is a $5 million increase or decrease.
On the completion of the Transaction, on 4 October 2012, Samsung Electronics Europe Holding Coperatief u.
A. invested $34.4 million in return for 9,925,000 new ordinary shares in the Company.
On 15 January 2014, Samsung Electronics Europe Holding Coperatief u.
A. disposed of their entire holding of ordinary shares in the Company.
Exchange controls There are no government laws, decrees, regulations or other legislation in the united Kingdom that affect the export or import of capital, including, but not limited to, uK foreign exchange controls on the payment of dividends, interest or other payments to shareholders resident outside the uK.
There are currently no limitations on the right of non-uK residents or non-uK shareholders to hold or vote CSR ordinary shares imposed by English law or CSRs Articles of Association.
Taxation US Holders US federal income tax matters The following general discussion describes the material uS federal income tax consequences of the ownership and disposition of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares that are generally applicable to uS holders as defined below.
However, this discussion does not address all aspects of taxation that may be relevant to particular uS holders in light of their personal investment or tax circumstances or to persons that are subject to special tax rules.
In addition, this discussion does not address the tax treatment of special classes of uS holders, such as financial institutions, regulated investment companies, real estate investment trusts, insurance companies, tax-exempt entities, dealers or traders, persons that actually or constructively own 10% or more of the total combined voting stock of CSR, persons holding CSR ADSs or ordinary shares as part of a hedging or conversion transaction or as part of a straddle, uS expatriates, persons subject to the alternative minimum tax, and persons whose functional currency is not the uS dollar.
This discussion may not be applicable to holders who acquired CSR ADSs or ordinary shares pursuant to the exercise of options or warrants or otherwise as compensation.
Furthermore, this discussion does not address any uS federal estate or gift tax considerations, or state, local or non-uS tax considerations.
We urge you to consult your own tax advisor as to the specific tax consequences of the ownership and disposition of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares, including the applicable uS federal, state, local and non-uS income and other tax consequences to you of the ownership and disposition of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares.
As used in this discussion of uS federal income tax consequences, a uS holder means a holder of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares who or that holds such ADSs or shares as a capital asset within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Internal Revenue Code, and is for uS federal income tax purposes i a citizen or individual resident of the united States, ii a corporation or other entity taxable as a corporation organized under the laws of the united States, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, iii an estate the income of which is subject to uS federal income taxation regardless of its source, or iv a trust a if a court within the united States is able to exercise primary jurisdiction over its administration and one or more uS persons have authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust or b that has a valid election in effect under applicable Treasury regulations to be treated as a uS person.
If a pass-through entity, including a partnership or other entity classified as a partnership for uS federal income tax purposes, is a beneficial owner of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares, the uS federal income tax treatment of an owner or partner generally will depend upon the status of such owner or partner and upon the activities of the pass-through entity.
Any owner or partner of a pass-through entity holding CSR ADSs or ordinary shares is urged to consult its own tax advisor.
This discussion is based on the Internal Revenue Code, applicable Department of Treasury regulations, judicial authority, and administrative rulings and practice, all as of the date of this Annual Report.
