CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Sale, exchange or other taxable disposition of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares Subject to the PFIC rules described above, upon a sale or other disposition of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares, a uS holder will generally recognize gain or loss for uS federal income tax purposes in an amount equal to the difference between the uS dollar value of the amount realized and the uS holders tax basis, determined in uS dollars, in the CSR ADSs or ordinary shares.
Gain or loss recognized will be longterm capital gain or loss with respect to CSR ADSs or ordinary shares held for more than 12 months at the time of the sale or other disposition and any gain recognized generally will be income from sources within the united States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
The deductibility of capital losses is subject to significant limitations.
Backup withholding and information reporting In general, dividend payments with respect to CSR ADSs or ordinary shares and proceeds from the sale or other disposition of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares made or deemed made within the united States may be subject to information reporting to the IRS and uS backup withholding currently at a rate of 28%.
Backup withholding will generally not apply to a holder who or that: furnishes a correct taxpayer identification number and certifies, under penalties of perjury, that such holder is not subject to backup withholding on a Form W-9, and otherwise complies with applicable requirements of the backup withholding rules: is a corporation or otherwise exempt from backup withholding and, when required, demonstrates this fact: or provides a certification of foreign status on Form W-8BEN or a successor form.
Backup withholding is not an additional tax.
Amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules will be allowed as a refund or credit against a holders uS federal income tax liability, provided the holder furnished the required information to the IRS in a timely manner.
In addition, certain uS holders who are individuals that hold specified foreign financial assets which may include CSR ADSs or ordinary shares will be required to report information relating to such assets, subject to certain exceptions.
uS holders should consult their tax advisors regarding the effect, if any, of this requirement on their ownership and disposition of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares.
Additional tax on investment income uS holders that are individuals, estates or trusts and whose income exceeds certain thresholds will be subject to a 3.8% Medicare contribution tax on unearned income, including, among other things, dividends on, and capital gains from the sale or other disposition of, CSR ADSs or ordinary shares, subject to certain limitations and exceptions.
uS holders should consult their tax advisors regarding the possible implications of the additional tax on investment income described above.
UK tax matters The following paragraphs summarise the material uK tax consequences for investors who are not resident in the uK for uK tax purposes including uS investors who are not resident in the uK for uK tax purposes regarding ownership and disposal of CSR ordinary shares.
The following paragraphs, which are intended as a general guide only, are based on current uK tax legislation and what is understood to be HM Revenue & Customs the uK tax authority practice which are both subject to change at any time, possibly with retrospective effect.
They summarise certain limited aspects of the uK tax treatment of holders of CSR ordinary shares and apply only to the position of holders of CSR ordinary shares who for uK tax purposes are beneficial owners of their CSR ordinary shares, hold their CSR ordinary shares as an investment and not as assets to be realised in the course of a trade and are not treated as having acquired their CSR ordinary shares by reason of their or anothers employment.
They do not apply to holders of CSR ADSs.
Holders of CSR ordinary shares or CSR ADSs who are in any doubt as to their tax position should consult an appropriate professional adviser immediately.
Taxation of dividends under current uK tax legislation, no tax will be withheld by CSR from cash dividend payments.
Holders of CSR ordinary shares who are resident outside the uK will generally not receive any payment from HM Revenue & Customs in respect of any tax credit on dividends paid by CSR.
Holders of CSR ordinary shares who are not resident in the uK and who do not carry on a trade, profession, or vocation in the uK through a branch, agency or permanent establishment in connection with which their CSR ordinary shares are held, used or acquired will not generally be liable to pay any uK tax in respect of any dividends received on their CSR ordinary shares.
Holders of CSR ordinary shares who are resident in the uK or who carry on a trade, profession or vocation in the uK through a branch, agency or permanent establishment in connection with which their CSR ordinary shares are held, used or acquired are encouraged to consult appropriate professional advisers.
Taxation of capital gains A holder of CSR ordinary shares who is not resident in the uK will not ordinarily be liable to uK tax on capital gains realised on the disposal of CSR ordinary shares, unless, at the time of the disposal in the case of an individual shareholder he or she carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the uK through a branch or agency and those shares are, or have been, used, held or acquired for the purposes of that trade, profession or vocation or branch or agency or in the case of a corporate shareholder it carries on a trade through a permanent establishment in the uK and those shares are, or have been, used, held or acquired for the purposes of that trade or permanent establishment.
A holder of CSR ordinary shares who is an individual and who is temporarily resident outside the uK may be liable on his return to the uK to uK tax on capital gains arising during the period of absence, subject to any available exemption or relief.
Stamp Duty and Stamp Duty Reserve Tax No uK stamp duty or uK stamp duty reserve tax uK SDRT will generally be payable on the issue of CSR ordinary shares.
Subject to the paragraph below, where CSR ordinary shares are issued or transferred i to, or to a nominee or agent for, a person whose business is or includes the provision of clearance services a Clearance Service or ii to, or to a nominee or agent for, a person whose business is or includes issuing depositary receipts a Depositary Receipt System, uK stamp duty or uK SDRT will generally be payable at the rate of 1.5% of the consideration paid rounded up to the nearest multiple of 5 in the case of uK stamp duty.
The uK stamp duty or uK SDRT will generally be paid by the Clearance Service or the Depositary Receipt System, as the case may be, but will, in practice, generally be www.
indb 165 11 03 2014 21:17 Corporate and share information continued required to be reimbursed by CSR or by the holder of the CSR ordinary shares or CSR ADSs in question.
A Clearance Service can elect under section 97A of the Finance Act 1986 Section 97A, provided certain conditions are satisfied, for the normal rate of uK stamp duty or uK SDRT generally no charge on issue and a charge at 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration paid, rounded up to the nearest 5 in the case of uK stamp duty, on transfer to apply to issues or transfers of CSR ordinary shares into, and transactions within, such Clearance Service instead of the higher rate of 1.5% generally applying to an issue or transfer of CSR ordinary shares into the Clearance Service and the ability to transfer CSR ordinary shares while in the Clearance Service without there being uK stamp duty or uK SDRT.
Following a decision of the European Court of Justice in October 2009, HM Revenue & Customs have announced that they will not seek to apply the 1.5% uK SDRT charge where new shares are first issued or, where it is integral to the raising of new capital, new shares are transferred into a Clearance Service or a Depositary Receipt System.
Thus, the 1.5% uK stamp duty or uK SDRT charge will apply only to the transfer of existing shares to Clearance Services or Depositary Receipt Systems in circumstances where the transfer is not integral to the raising of new capital.
Investors should be aware that this area may be subject to further developments in the future.
No uK stamp duty or uK SDRT will generally be payable on the issue of CSR ordinary shares into CREST the London Stock Exchanges paperless trading system.
Subject to an exemption for certain low value transactions, the transfer on sale of CSR ordinary shares in certificated form will generally give rise to a liability, usually met by the purchaser, to ad valorem uK stamp duty at the rate of 0.5% rounded up to the nearest multiple of 5 of the amount or value of the consideration paid.
An agreement to transfer such shares which is or becomes unconditional will generally give rise to uK SDRT at the rate of 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration paid, such uK SDRT generally being payable by the transferee or purchaser.
The liability to uK SDRT will generally be cancelled or any uK SDRT paid will be refunded if the agreement is completed by a duly stamped transfer within six years of either the date of the agreement or, if the agreement was conditional, the date when the agreement became unconditional.
A transfer of CSR ordinary shares on a paperless basis through CREST will generally be subject to uK SDRT at the rate of 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration paid, which will be collected and accounted for to HM Revenue & Customs by CREST such uK SDRT generally being borne by the transferee or purchaser.
No uK stamp duty or uK SDRT will arise on a transfer of CSR ordinary shares into CREST provided that, in the case of uK SDRT, the transfer is not for money or moneys worth.
Generally, a gift of CSR ordinary shares or a transfer of such shares from a nominee to the beneficial owner will give rise to neither uK stamp duty nor uK SDRT.
The above statements are intended only as a general guide to the current uK stamp duty and uK SDRT position.
Transfers to certain categories of person are not liable to uK stamp duty or uK SDRT and transfers to others may be liable at a higher rate.
Risks Related to owning CSR ordinary shares and ADSs We may be treated as a PFIC.
As a non-uS corporation owning substantial cash assets, there is an ongoing risk that we may be treated as a passive foreign investment company PFIC for uS federal income tax purposes depending on the ratio of the value of our assets, including goodwill, to our holdings of cash and liquid assets such as bank deposits and marketable securities.
A non-uS corporation generally will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year in which 75% or more of its gross income is passive income, or 50% or more of the average value of its assets consists of passive assets generally, assets that generate passive income.
This determination is highly factual, and will depend on, among other things, our market valuation and future financial performance.
We believe we were not a PFIC for the taxable year ended 27 December 2013, but if we were to be classified as a PFIC for any future taxable year, holders of ordinary shares or ADSs who are uS taxpayers would be subject to adverse uS federal income tax consequences.
Shareholders in countries other than the United Kingdom will suffer dilution if they are unable to participate in future preemptive equity offerings.
under English law, shareholders usually have pre-emptive rights to subscribe on a pro rata basis in the issuance of new shares for cash.
The exercise of pre-emptive rights by certain shareholders not resident in the united Kingdom may be restricted by applicable law or practice in the united Kingdom and overseas jurisdictions.
In particular, the exercise of pre-emptive rights by uS shareholders would be prohibited unless that rights offering is registered under the uS Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements of the uS Securities Act applies.
Furthermore, under the Deposit Agreement for the ADSs, the Depositary Bank generally will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the uS Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the uS Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs.
If no exemption applies and we do not wish to register a rights offering, shareholders in the united States may not be able or permitted to exercise their pre-emptive rights.
We are also permitted under English law to disapply pre-emptive rights subject to the approval of our shareholders by special resolution and investor committee guidance on the limits of any such disapplication and thereby exclude certain shareholders, such as overseas shareholders, from participating in a rights offering usually to avoid a breach of local securities laws.
The rights of our shareholders will be governed by English law and differ from the rights of stockholders under US law Because we are a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, the rights of shareholders and, therefore, certain of the rights of holders of ADSs, will be governed by English law and by the Articles.
These rights differ from the typical rights of shareholders in uS corporations.
For example, the rights of shareholders to bring proceedings against us or our directors or officers or generally on behalf of a class of shareholders or other claimants may be more limited under English law than under the corporate law and case law of uS jurisdictions.
Shareholders in countries other than the united Kingdom may have difficulty in effecting service of process on us or our directors in the uS, in enforcing uS judgments in the uK or in enforcing uS securities laws in the uK courts.
Most of our directors and some of the experts named in this document are residents of countries other than the united States.
As a result, it may not be possible for our shareholders in countries other than the uK to effect service of process within the united States upon all 166 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
indb 166 11 03 2014 21:17 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information of our directors and executive officers and some of the experts named in this document or on us, or to obtain discovery of relevant documents and or the testimony of witnesses.
Our shareholders in countries other than the uK may have difficulties enforcing, in courts outside the united States, judgments obtained in the uS courts against any of our directors and some of the experts named in this document or us including actions under the civil liability provisions of the uS securities laws.
Those shareholders may also have difficulty enforcing liabilities under the uS securities laws in legal actions originally brought in jurisdictions located outside the united States.
The market value of our ADSs and dividends may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the USdollar and the pound sterling.
Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the uS dollar and the pound sterling will affect the uS dollar price of our ADSs and the market value of ordinary shares when expressed in uS dollars.
If the relative value of sterling to the uS dollar declines, the uS dollar price of the ADSs and the uS dollar equivalent of the price of ordinary shares traded on the London Stock Exchange will also decline.
We paid, and may in the future pay, cash dividends on the ordinary shares in sterling.
A decline in the relative value of sterling to the uS dollar would also result in a decline in the uS dollar value of these dividends.
The market price of our ordinary shares and ADSs is volatile.
Stock markets in general during the past few years have experienced significant price and volume volatility.
Technology stocks in particular have experienced wide fluctuations in prices, in some cases unrelated to the issuers operating performance.
Our ordinary shares and ADSs are subject to significant fluctuations due to many factors, including but not limited to fluctuations in results of operations, acquisitions, litigation, announcements of new products, product enhancements or technological advances by us or our competitors, changes in earnings estimates by market analysts, and general market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries.
Our share price is subject to speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations by financial analysts, changes in investors or analysts valuation measures for our stock, changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market trends unrelated to our performance.
The market price of our ordinary shares and ADSs could be adversely affected by these factors and fluctuations.
Liquidity in the market for our securities may be adversely affected by our maintenance of two exchange listings.
Our ADSs are traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market and our ordinary shares are listed on the premium segment of the Official List and trade on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange.
This dual listing may dilute the liquidity of our securities in one or both markets.
Holders of our ADSs may not have the same voting rights as the holders of ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise their right to vote Except as described in the Deposit Agreement, holders of ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights on an individual basis, and must instruct the Depositary Bank on how to vote the shares underlying their ADSs.
Because of this extra procedural step involved, the process for exercising voting rights could take longer for holders of ADSs than for holders of ordinary shares and, as a result, holders of ADSs may not be able to effectively exercise voting rights.
