Corporate and share information continued Conflicts of interest The Companies Act 2006 requires a director of a company who is in any way interested, directly or indirectly, in a contract or proposed contract with the Company to declare the nature and extent of his interest to the other directors of the Company.
The Companies Act 2006 also requires that a director must avoid a situation where a director has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the companys interests.
It allows the non-conflicted directors of public companies to authorise such conflicts where appropriate, if a companys articles of association so permit.
CSRs Articles of Association provide that the Board may in specified circumstances authorise any matter that would otherwise involve a director breaching his duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a conflict of interest.
They also provide that, subject to authorisation of such conflict, a director may retain any benefit derived by reason of that interest.
Borrowing powers The Board may exercise the Companys borrowing powers.
Save with the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution, no money shall be borrowed if the principal amount outstanding of all borrowings by the group exceeds, or would as a result of such borrowing exceed, an amount equal to the greater of 300,000,000 and three times the Companys adjusted capital and reserves.
Retirement The Companys Articles of Association state that a director shall retire from office and may offer himself for re-appointment when he has been appointed by the Board since the last annual general meeting, held office in the preceding two annual general meetings and did not retire at either of them, or has been in office, other than employment or executive office, for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the meeting.
The uK Corporate Governance Code requires all directors of FTSE 350 companies to be subject to annual election by shareholders.
Accordingly, all directors will be retiring at the AGM and offering themselves for re-election.
This is explained in further detail in the AGM notice which is a separate document issued to shareholders.
Director qualifying shares Directors of the Company are not required by the Memorandum or the Articles of Association to hold any shares in the Company.
Rights and restrictions attaching to the shares Dividend rights The shareholders may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial position of CSR, in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
If the Board acts in good faith, it is not liable to holders of shares with preferred or similar rights for losses arising from the payment of interim or fixed dividends on other shares.
The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other moneys payable in respect of CSRs shares from a person with at least a 0.25% interest in CSR shares or in a class of CSR shares if such a person has been served with a restriction notice after failure to provide CSR with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006.
The Board may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution, offer shareholders excluding any member holding shares as treasury shares in respect of any dividend the right to elect to receive shares by way of scrip dividend instead of cash.
Any dividend unclaimed after a period of 12 years from the date when it was declared or became due for payment must be forfeited and revert to CSR unless the Board decides otherwise.
CSR may stop sending cheques, warrants or similar financial instruments in payment of dividends by post in respect of any shares or may cease to employ any other means of payment, including payment by means of a relevant system, for dividends if either i at least two consecutive payments have remained uncashed or are returned undelivered or that means of payment has failed or ii one payment remains uncashed or is returned undelivered or that means of payment has failed and reasonable inquiries have failed to establish any new postal address or account of the holder.
In addition, CSR must resume sending dividend cheques, warrants or similar financial instruments or employing that means of payment if the holder requests such resumption in writing.
Voting rights Members will be entitled to vote at a general meeting or class meeting whether on a show of hands or a poll.
under the Companies Act 2006: a on a show of hands every member who is present in person is entitled to one vote regardless of the number of shares he or she holds.
Every proxy present who has been duly appointed by one or more shareholders entitled to vote on the resolution has one vote on a show of hands, unless the proxy is appointed by more than one shareholder in which case the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been instructed by one or more shareholders to vote for the resolution and by one or more shareholders to vote against the resolution.
The Articles of Association provide that, where a proxy is given discretion as to how to vote on a show of hands, this will be treated as an instruction by the relevant member to vote in the way that the proxy decides to exercise that discretion: and b on a poll every member has one vote per share held by him and he may vote in person or by one or more proxies.
Where he appoints more than one proxy, the proxies appointed by him taken together shall not have more extensive voting rights than he could exercise in person.
160 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
