Corporate and share information continued All of the preceding authorities are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect, so as to result in uS federal income tax consequences different from those discussed below.
CSR has not requested, and will not request, a ruling from the uS Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS with respect to any of the uS federal income tax consequences described below, and as a result there can be no assurance that the IRS will not disagree with or challenge any of the conclusions CSR has reached and describes herein.
Ownership of ADSs For uS federal income tax purposes, a uS holder of CSR ADSs generally will be treated as the owner of the underlying shares represented by the ADSs.
Accordingly, withdrawals or deposits of ordinary shares in exchange for CSR ADSs generally will not be subject to uS federal income taxation.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the uS Treasury has expressed concerns that intermediaries in the chain of ownership between the holder of an ADS and the issuer of the security underlying the ADS may be taking actions that are inconsistent with the beneficial ownership of the underlying shares for example, pre-releasing ADSs to persons who do not have the beneficial ownership of the securities underlying the ADSs.
Accordingly, the analysis of the creditability of united Kingdom taxes and the availability of the reduced rate of tax for dividends received by certain non-corporate uS holders, as described below, could be affected by actions taken by intermediaries in the chain of ownership between the holder of CSR ADSs and CSR if, as a result of such actions, the holders of CSR ADSs are not properly treated as the beneficial owners of the underlying ordinary shares.
We are not aware of any intention to take any such actions, and accordingly, the remainder of this discussion assumes that holders of CSR ADSs will be properly treated as the beneficial owners of the underlying ordinary shares.
Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules Special uS federal income tax rules apply to uS holders owning stock of a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC.
A non-uS corporation generally will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year in which i 75% or more of its gross income is passive income, or ii 50% or more of the average value of its assets are considered passive assets generally, assets that generate passive income.
For this purpose, passive income generally includes, among other things, interest, dividends, rents, royalties, certain gains from the sale of stock and securities and other investment income, and all cash is treated as a passive asset.
CSR believes that it was not a PFIC for its taxable year ended 27 December 2013.
Moreover, based on the nature of anticipated income, assets and activities, CSR does not expect to become a PFIC for its taxable year ending 26 December 2014 or in the foreseeable future.
However, the determination of PFIC status for any year can only be made on an annual basis at the end of such taxable year, is based on the application of complex uS federal income tax rules and will depend on the composition of CSRs income, assets and operations from time to time.
Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge the determination made by CSR concerning its PFIC status or that CSR will not be a PFIC for any taxable year.
If CSR were classified as a PFIC, for any year during which a uS holder holds CSR ADSs or ordinary shares, regardless of whether CSR continues to be a PFIC, the uS holder would be subject to special, adverse rules including taxation at maximum ordinary income rates plus an interest charge on both gains on sale and certain dividends, unless the uS holder makes an election to be taxed under an alternative regime.
Certain elections may be available to a uS holder if CSR were classified as a PFIC.
CSR will continue to monitor whether it is or will become a PFIC and will provide uS holders with information concerning the potential availability of such elections if CSR so determines.
uS holders are urged to consult their own tax advisors concerning the potential application of the PFIC rules to their ownership and disposition of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares.
Distributions Subject to the PFIC rules described above, for uS federal income tax purposes, a uS holder will generally include in gross income the amount of any distribution paid by CSR to the extent paid out of CSRs current and or accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for uS federal income tax purposes, as dividend income when the distribution is actually or constructively received by the depositary, in the case of CSR ADSs, or by the uS holder, in the case of ordinary shares.
Non-corporate uS holders currently are taxed at a maximum rate of 20% on dividends received from qualified foreign corporations, provided the uS holders satisfy certain holding period and other requirements.
In order to be treated as a qualified foreign corporation, CSR must be eligible for benefits of the united States income tax treaty with the united Kingdom.
Although CSR believes that it is currently eligible for such treaty benefits, there can be no assurance that this will be the case for any taxable year.
Further, non-corporate uS holders will not be eligible for the reduced rates of dividend taxation if CSR is a PFIC for the taxable year of the dividend payment or the preceding taxable year.
Corporate uS holders will be taxed on dividends received from CSR at a 35% tax rate.
Dividends generally will be income from sources outside of the united States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes, and generally will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction that is allowed to uS corporations in respect of dividends received from other uS corporations.
Distributions in excess of CSRs current and or accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for uS federal income tax purposes, will be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the uS holders tax basis in the CSR ADSs or ordinary shares and thereafter as capital gain.
The amount of a distribution includible in the income of a uS holder will be the uS dollar value of the distribution determined at the spot rate on the date that distribution is eligible for inclusion in the income of the uS holder, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into uS dollars at such time.
A uS holder will have a basis in any GBP distributed by CSR equal to the uS dollar value of the GBP on the date it is actually or constructively received by the uS holder.
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange fluctuations during the period from the date the dividend payment is includible in income to the date that payment is converted into uS dollars will be treated as uS source ordinary income or loss.
164 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
