Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3 Accounting Policies Basis of Accounting The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and as adopted by the European union Eu.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
The consolidated financial statements cover the 52 week period from 29 December 2012 to 27 December 2013: the comparatives are presented for the 52 week period from 31 December 2011 to 28 December 2012 and income statement comparatives for the 52 week period from 1 January 2011 to 30 December 2011.
The consolidated financial statements are reported on a 52 or 53 week basis to be consistent with the Groups internal reporting.
Basis of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of CSR plc the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries, together the Group drawn up to the dates indicated in the primary financial statements.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to influence the economic benefits obtained from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business Combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for the control of the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in sales, general and administrative expenses as incurred for acquisitions that have occurred since the adoption of IFRS 3 2008.
Previous acquisitions have not been restated.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisition-date fair value.
Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments see below.
All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRSs.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified in equity are not recognised.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 2008 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that: deferred tax assets and liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits respectively: liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by the Group of an acquirees share-based payment awards are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment: and assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that Standard.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period see below, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as at the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and is subject to a maximum of one year.
Where there are acquiree share-based payment awards that will be exchanged for awards held by the Group, the fair value of the outstanding awards is allocated between consideration and post-combination service.
The Group recognises a contingent liability on the consolidated balance sheet as of the acquisition date if there is a present obligation that arises from past events and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Goodwill Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset at the date that control is acquired the acquisition date.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the Groups previously held equity interest if any in the entity over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the Groups previously held equity interest if any, the excess is recognised in the income statement as a bargain purchase gain.
98 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
indb 98 11 03 2014 21:17 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 3 Accounting Policies continued For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested annually or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
To determine the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit, the Group uses discounted projected cash flows based on approved budgets and projections covering a period up to five years and estimates growth rates, terminal growth rates and discount rates specific to the economic environment within which the cash-generating unit is operating.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of part or whole of a CGu, the attributable amount is included in the determination of profit or loss on disposal.
Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognised when it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and delivery has occurred or the service has been provided, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured.
These criteria are generally met at the time the product is shipped and delivered to the customer and, depending on the delivery conditions, title and risk have passed to the customer and acceptance of the product, when contractually required, has been obtained, or, in cases where such acceptance is not contractually required, when management has established that all aforementioned conditions for revenue recognition have been met and no further postshipment obligations exist other than obligations under warranty.
Examples of the above-mentioned delivery conditions are Free on Board point of delivery and Costs, Insurance Paid point of delivery, where the point of delivery may be the shipping warehouse or any other point of destination as agreed in the contract with the customer and where title and risk in the goods pass to the customer.
Revenues are recorded net of sales taxes, customer discounts, rebates and similar charges.
For products for which a right of return exists during a defined period, revenue recognition is determined based on the historical pattern of actual returns, or in cases where such information is lacking, revenue recognition is postponed until the return period has lapsed.
Return policies are typically based on customary return arrangements in local markets.
Revenue is shown net of estimated provision for credit notes and returns.
A provision for product warranty is made at the time of revenue recognition and reflects the estimated costs of replacement and free of charge services that will be incurred by the Company with respect to the sold products.
Royalty income, which is generally earned based upon a percentage of sales or a fixed amount per royalty earning product, is recognised upon shipment by the licencee as long as recovery is reasonably assured.
When a transaction requires the delivery of more than one product or service multiple components, the revenue recognition criteria are applied to the separately identifiable components.
A component is considered to be separately identifiable if the product or service delivered has stand-alone value to that customer and the fair value associated with the product or service can be measured reliably.
The amount recognised as revenue for each component is the fair value of the element in relation to the fair value of the arrangement as a whole.
We determine the fair value of our maintenance obligations with reference to substantive renewal rates within the agreement or objective evidence of fair value.
In instances where we are unable to determine the fair value of our maintenance obligations, revenue for the entire arrangement is recognised ratably over the term of the arrangement.
We recognise maintenance and support revenue ratably over the term of the arrangement.
Software license revenue is recognised fully upon delivery, where there is no obligation to provide ongoing technical support or software upgrades or enhancements.
If technical support, software upgrades and enhancements are sold with the software license, revenue will be recognised for each identified component based on the relative fair value of the delivered component for which consideration is received or receivable.
With regards to technical support, the revenue would be recognised ratably over the term of the arrangement.
Non-Recurring Engineering NRE revenue is recognised in line with the stage of completion.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly to the income statement.
Rentals payable and receivable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight line basis over the lease term.
indb 99 11 03 2014 21:17 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Foreign Currencies The functional currency of all entities in the Group is the uS dollar and this is also the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
Transactions in currencies other than uS dollars are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the net profit or loss for the period except for exchange differences on transactions entered into to hedge certain foreign currency risks see policy on Hedge Accounting.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group enters into forward contracts see Financial Instruments policy for details of the Groups accounting policies in respect of such derivative financial instruments.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
R&D tax credits Following the changes made to the claiming of R&D tax credits in the 2013 Finance Act, uK R&D tax credits, for qualifying R&D expenditure incurred subsequent to 1 April 2013, have been accounted for under IAS 20 Government Grants and Disclosure and recognised within operating loss profit.
The expected R&D tax credit is accrued within the income statement as qualifying R&D expenditure is incurred and has been offset against Research & Development expenditure within the income statement.
Operating Result Operating loss profit is stated before investment income, exchange gains losses, finance costs and tax.
Retirement Benefit Costs The Group has both a defined contribution retirement scheme and a defined benefit plan.
The defined benefit plan represents severance payments required under Israeli law to employees who joined the Israeli subsidiary prior to 2007 who leave the Group involuntarily.
These severance payments are funded by investment funds held in the name of each employee, with the Company liable for meeting any shortfall.
This meets the definition of a post employment defined benefit plan under IAS 19.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Differences between contributions payable in the period and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the Balance Sheet.
An asset or liability is recognised in the balance sheet in relation to the defined benefit scheme, as the present value of the defined benefit obligation, less the fair value of plan assets at the balance sheet date.
The financing cost, service cost and expected returns on plan assets are recognised within the Income statement in the period in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Where the carrying amount of scheme assets exceed the present value of the future benefits that are expected to flow to the scheme from those assets the asset ceiling, the surplus is recognised in full in the statement of comprehensive income in the period in which this arises.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax expense and the deferred tax expense for the period.
The tax payable is based on taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from net loss profit before tax as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income and expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences, unused carried forward tax losses and unused carried forward tax credits can be utilised.
However, such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from: the initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit: or investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
100 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
indb 100 11 03 2014 21:17 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 3 Accounting Policies continued Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited in other comprehensive income or directly to equity, in which case deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income or equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Judgement is required when determining the provision for taxes as the tax treatment of some transactions cannot be finally determined until a formal resolution has been reached with the tax authorities.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the benefit will be obtained.
Tax provisions are made if it is probable that a liability will arise and the liability can be reliably measured.
The Group reviews each significant tax liability or benefit to assess the appropriate accounting treatment.
Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of the assets, less estimated residual value, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight line method, on the following basis: Computer equipment 2 to 3 years Test equipment 2 to 5 years Office equipment 3 years Furniture and fittings 5 years Leasehold improvements Shorter of useful life or minimum lease period Residual values are the estimated amount that the Group would obtain from disposal of the asset, after deducting estimated costs of disposal, if the asset were already of the age and in the condition expected at the end of its useful life, based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date.
In general residual values are zero or negligible, due to the technical and specialised nature of assets held.
Residual values are reviewed annually.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Other Intangible Assets Other intangible fixed assets are stated at cost or fair value for items acquired in business combinations, net of amortisation and any provision for impairment.
No amortisation is provided on assets in the course of construction.
On other intangible fixed assets, amortisation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost or fair value, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful life as follows: Software licences and intellectual property Licence term or 3 to 5 years where a perpetual licence Customer contracts and relationships 3 to 4 years Purchased IPR&D 4 to 10 years Internally developed technology 3 years Purchased developed technology 3 to 4 years Trade names 2 years Residual values are the estimated amount that the Group would obtain from disposal of the asset, after deducting estimated costs of disposal, if the asset were already of the age and in the condition expected at the end of its useful life, based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost net of any provision for impairment.
Costs included are those that directly relate to the construction or production of the asset.
Amortisation of these assets commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
indb 101 11 03 2014 21:17 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Research and Development Expenditure Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
An internally generated intangible asset arising from the Groups product development is recognised only if all of the following conditions are met: an asset is created that can be identified such as a new device or software : the project from which the asset arises meets the Groups criteria for assessing technical feasibility: it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: and the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Internally generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight line basis over their useful lives.
Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Impairment of Tangible and Intangible Assets Excluding Goodwill At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is anyindication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset isestimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may beimpaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present values using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
After the recognition of an impairment loss, any depreciation or amortisation charge for the asset is adjusted for future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying value, less estimated residual value, on a systematic basis, over its remaining useful life.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but the reversal is limited so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is calculated using the first-in-first-out FIFO method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Financial Instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Loans and Receivables Trade receivables, loans and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment or appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Treasury deposits and investments Treasury deposits and investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
Treasury deposits and investments consist of money market deposits in uSD, GBP and obligations of the united States government treasury with original maturities of over ninety days.
Interest income is recorded as it accrues over the period of the investment at rates fixed at the time of inception.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
102 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
indb 102 11 03 2014 21:17 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 3 Accounting Policies continued Financial Assets at FVTPL Fair Value Through Profit and Loss Financial Assets are classified as FVTPL where the asset has been designated as FVTPL.
A financial asset may be designated as FVTPL upon initial recognition if: such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise: or the financial asset forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Groups documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the Group is provided internally on that basis: or it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement permits the entire combined contract asset or liability to be designated FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
The net gain or loss recognised in the income statement incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset and is included in the investment income line in the income statement.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in note 31.
Available for sale financial assets The Group has investments in unlisted shares that are not traded in an active market but are classified as AFS financial assets and stated at fair value because the directors consider that fair value can be reliably measured.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the investments revaluation reserve with the exception of impairment losses, which are recognised directly in profit or loss.
Where the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the investments revaluation reserve is reclassified into profit or loss.
Derecognition of Financial Assets The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire: or it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
Impairment of Financial Assets Financial assets, other than those held at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired when there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impaired.
Objective evidence of impairment could include significant financial difficulty of the issuer or the counterparty: or default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: or it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial re-organisation.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in the income statement.
Financial Liabilities and Equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Trade Payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction cost.
Subsequently these are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest recognised on an effective yield basis.
Equity Instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial Liabilities at FVTPL Fair Value Through Profit and Loss Financial liabilities are classified as FVTPL where the financial liability has been designated as FVTPL.
A financial liability may be designated as FVTPL upon initial recognition if: such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise: or the financial liability forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Groups documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the Group is provided internally on that basis: or it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement permits the entire combined contract asset or liability to be designated FVTPL.
indb 103 11 03 2014 21:17 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Derecognition of Financial Liabilities The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Derivative Financial Instruments The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
The Group uses foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge these exposures.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in note 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of directors, which provides written principles on the use of financial derivatives.
The Groups policy is to hedge between 75% and 90% of forecast GBP expenditure for the following 11 to 15 months.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in the income statement depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
Hedge Accounting Hedges of foreign exchange risk on firm commitments are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged item.
Note 19 sets out details of the fair values of the derivative instruments used for hedging purposes.
Movements in the hedging reserve in equity are also detailed in the statement of changes in equity.
Cash Flow Hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are deferred in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled into profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the income statement.
When the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions for warranty and returns costs are recognised at the date of sale of the relevant products, at the directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the Groups liability.
Provision is made for onerous contracts at the fair value of the minimum unavoidable payments, net of any amounts recoverable.
Where amounts are known and timings certain, onerous amounts are accrued instead.
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it.
The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
Share-Based Payment The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees, including share options with non-market based vesting conditions.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at the fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
For grants where options vest in instalments over the vesting period, each instalment is treated as a separate grant, which results in fair value of each instalment being spread across the vesting period of that instalment.
Fair value is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model for most of share options in issue.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
For certain share options which include Total Shareholder Return TSR related conditions the fair value is estimated through the use of a Monte-Carlo simulation.
104 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
