Independent auditors report to the members of CSR plc Opinion on financial statements of CSR plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 27 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 46.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in note 3 to the Group financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement on page 89 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk acquired Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and other We evaluated the assumptions in the discounted cash flow forecasts intangible assets.
used in the value in use calculation for goodwill and other intangible assets, described in note 13 to the financial statements.
These included This process is particularly complex and highly judgmental as it is based the cashflow projections, growth rates and discount rates used.
We on assumptions about future profitability which is based on technologies have involved valuation experts in challenging the discount rate applied and products still under development.
During the period an impairment to the separate cash generating units by comparing this against industry of $76.9m has been recorded against goodwill and intangibles for the benchmarks on similar assets, the prevailing Group cost of capital at the Camera cash generating unit CGu.
Details of the goodwill impairment year end, and our understanding of the future prospects of the review is disclosed in note 13 to the financial statements.
We have considered the level of risk adjustment applied to each of the cash generating units.
In order to assess the long term growth rate applied to the Board approved cashflow projections we have considered market data and benchmarked the rate against comparator companies.
We have assessed the assumptions used in calculating the fair value of the Camera CGu and recalculated the impairment loss recorded.
We have re-run the sensitivities applied by management and considered their reasonableness.
Measurement of the inventory provision.
We performed testing of the controls over the inventory business cycle and have considered the appropriateness of the assumptions and The inventory provision is based on estimates of future sales, which are estimates in relation to the inventory provision, focusing on Legacy and subject to increased uncertainty for the Legacy and Camera business Camera inventory products in light of the decision to cease investment units given the Groups decision to cease continued investment.
We have focused our work on expected forecasts, accounting policy is disclosed in note 3 to the financial statements.
historical data and other third party evidence.
Accounting for ongoing litigation matters.
We considered the internal and external legal advice we obtained and the information gathered by management in preparing their disclosure of Due to the litigious nature of the technology industry accounting for contingent liabilities relating to litigation in note 26 to the financial litigation can be particularly judgmental.
During the period a release to statements.
We assessed the completeness of this disclosure, and the consolidated income statement of $9.8 million has been recorded in tested the carrying value of provisions held in respect of litigation for relation to litigation provisions.
Contingent liabilities have been disclosed accuracy and completeness by reference to correspondence between in note 26 to the financial statements.
the parties and legal advice received by the Group.
Provisions held in respect of litigation have reduced by $9.8 million and we assessed the appropriateness of this release through review of supporting legal documents.
90 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
