CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Sale, exchange or other taxable disposition of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares Subject to the PFIC rules described above, upon a sale or other disposition of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares, a uS holder will generally recognize gain or loss for uS federal income tax purposes in an amount equal to the difference between the uS dollar value of the amount realized and the uS holders tax basis, determined in uS dollars, in the CSR ADSs or ordinary shares.
Gain or loss recognized will be longterm capital gain or loss with respect to CSR ADSs or ordinary shares held for more than 12 months at the time of the sale or other disposition and any gain recognized generally will be income from sources within the united States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
The deductibility of capital losses is subject to significant limitations.
Backup withholding and information reporting In general, dividend payments with respect to CSR ADSs or ordinary shares and proceeds from the sale or other disposition of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares made or deemed made within the united States may be subject to information reporting to the IRS and uS backup withholding currently at a rate of 28%.
Backup withholding will generally not apply to a holder who or that: furnishes a correct taxpayer identification number and certifies, under penalties of perjury, that such holder is not subject to backup withholding on a Form W-9, and otherwise complies with applicable requirements of the backup withholding rules: is a corporation or otherwise exempt from backup withholding and, when required, demonstrates this fact: or provides a certification of foreign status on Form W-8BEN or a successor form.
Backup withholding is not an additional tax.
Amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules will be allowed as a refund or credit against a holders uS federal income tax liability, provided the holder furnished the required information to the IRS in a timely manner.
In addition, certain uS holders who are individuals that hold specified foreign financial assets which may include CSR ADSs or ordinary shares will be required to report information relating to such assets, subject to certain exceptions.
uS holders should consult their tax advisors regarding the effect, if any, of this requirement on their ownership and disposition of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares.
Additional tax on investment income uS holders that are individuals, estates or trusts and whose income exceeds certain thresholds will be subject to a 3.8% Medicare contribution tax on unearned income, including, among other things, dividends on, and capital gains from the sale or other disposition of, CSR ADSs or ordinary shares, subject to certain limitations and exceptions.
uS holders should consult their tax advisors regarding the possible implications of the additional tax on investment income described above.
UK tax matters The following paragraphs summarise the material uK tax consequences for investors who are not resident in the uK for uK tax purposes including uS investors who are not resident in the uK for uK tax purposes regarding ownership and disposal of CSR ordinary shares.
The following paragraphs, which are intended as a general guide only, are based on current uK tax legislation and what is understood to be HM Revenue & Customs the uK tax authority practice which are both subject to change at any time, possibly with retrospective effect.
They summarise certain limited aspects of the uK tax treatment of holders of CSR ordinary shares and apply only to the position of holders of CSR ordinary shares who for uK tax purposes are beneficial owners of their CSR ordinary shares, hold their CSR ordinary shares as an investment and not as assets to be realised in the course of a trade and are not treated as having acquired their CSR ordinary shares by reason of their or anothers employment.
They do not apply to holders of CSR ADSs.
Holders of CSR ordinary shares or CSR ADSs who are in any doubt as to their tax position should consult an appropriate professional adviser immediately.
Taxation of dividends under current uK tax legislation, no tax will be withheld by CSR from cash dividend payments.
Holders of CSR ordinary shares who are resident outside the uK will generally not receive any payment from HM Revenue & Customs in respect of any tax credit on dividends paid by CSR.
Holders of CSR ordinary shares who are not resident in the uK and who do not carry on a trade, profession, or vocation in the uK through a branch, agency or permanent establishment in connection with which their CSR ordinary shares are held, used or acquired will not generally be liable to pay any uK tax in respect of any dividends received on their CSR ordinary shares.
Holders of CSR ordinary shares who are resident in the uK or who carry on a trade, profession or vocation in the uK through a branch, agency or permanent establishment in connection with which their CSR ordinary shares are held, used or acquired are encouraged to consult appropriate professional advisers.
Taxation of capital gains A holder of CSR ordinary shares who is not resident in the uK will not ordinarily be liable to uK tax on capital gains realised on the disposal of CSR ordinary shares, unless, at the time of the disposal in the case of an individual shareholder he or she carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the uK through a branch or agency and those shares are, or have been, used, held or acquired for the purposes of that trade, profession or vocation or branch or agency or in the case of a corporate shareholder it carries on a trade through a permanent establishment in the uK and those shares are, or have been, used, held or acquired for the purposes of that trade or permanent establishment.
A holder of CSR ordinary shares who is an individual and who is temporarily resident outside the uK may be liable on his return to the uK to uK tax on capital gains arising during the period of absence, subject to any available exemption or relief.
Stamp Duty and Stamp Duty Reserve Tax No uK stamp duty or uK stamp duty reserve tax uK SDRT will generally be payable on the issue of CSR ordinary shares.
Subject to the paragraph below, where CSR ordinary shares are issued or transferred i to, or to a nominee or agent for, a person whose business is or includes the provision of clearance services a Clearance Service or ii to, or to a nominee or agent for, a person whose business is or includes issuing depositary receipts a Depositary Receipt System, uK stamp duty or uK SDRT will generally be payable at the rate of 1.5% of the consideration paid rounded up to the nearest multiple of 5 in the case of uK stamp duty.
The uK stamp duty or uK SDRT will generally be paid by the Clearance Service or the Depositary Receipt System, as the case may be, but will, in practice, generally be www.
