CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 3 Accounting Policies continued Save-As-You-Earn SAYE share options granted to employees are treated as cancelled when employees cease to contribute to the scheme.
This results in accelerated recognition of the expenses that would have arisen over the remainder of the original vesting period.
For a business combination where there are acquiree share-based payment awards that will be exchanged for awards held by the Group, the fair value of the outstanding awards is allocated between consideration and post-combination service in accordance with IFRS 3 2008 using the valuation techniques described in IFRS 2.
The allocation of the fair value of the options outstanding to consideration results in a credit to equity in the share-based payment reserve.
For cash-settled share-based payments, the Group recognises a liability for the goods or services acquired, measured initially at the fair value of the liability.
At each balance sheet date until the liability is settled, and at the date of settlement, the fair value of the liability is re-measured, with any changes in fair value recognised in the income statement for the period.
Employee Benefit Trust The Group has established an employee benefit trust which is a separately administered trust and is funded by loans from Group companies.
The assets of the trust comprise shares in CSR plc and cash balances.
The Group recognises assets and liabilities of the trust in the consolidated accounts and shares held by the trust are recorded at cost as a deduction from shareholders equity.
Contingent liabilities and assets A contingent liability may arise where there is a possible obligation that arises from past events, whose occurrence or non-occurrence will only be confirmed by uncertain future events or where a present obligation arises from past events but where an outflow of resources from the Group is not probable and or the amount of the obligation cannot be reliably measured.
In these circumstances, the Group discloses the nature of such contingent liabilities.
The Group recognises liabilities where there is a present obligation and an outflow of resources from the Group is probable and can be reliably measured.
A contingent asset may arise where, as a result of past events, there is a possible asset which will only be confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events which are not entirely within the control of the Group.
In these circumstances, the Group discloses the nature of such contingent assets.
The Group recognises an asset when an inflow of economic benefits is recognised as virtually certain.
Treasury shares The Group holds shares in its own equity that it has reacquired as part of a share buy-back programme.
The shares are shown as a deduction in equity and are measured at the fair value of the shares at the date of purchase and transaction costs.
Dividend distribution A dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups consolidated financial statements in the period in which the dividends are committed to be paid.
In the case of a final dividend distribution, this will also be the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which they are approved and paid.
4 Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation and Uncertainty These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and as adopted by the European union Eu.
The preparation of financial statements requires the directors to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty.
Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgement based on various assumptions and other factors such as historical experience, current and expected economic conditions.
The directors constantly re-evaluate these significant factors and make adjustments where facts and circumstances dictate.
The directors believe that the following accounting policies are critical due to the degree of estimation required and or the potential material impact they may have on the Groups balance sheet and performance.
Inventory Valuation The level of inventory provisioning required is sensitive to changes in the forecast sales of particular products which is dependent on changes in conditions in the Groups markets.
If changes in actual market conditions are less favourable than those projected, additional inventory provisions may be required: similarly if changes in actual market conditions are more favourable than predicted, the Group may be able to release a proportion of the inventory provision.
Goodwill Impairment The Group assesses the carrying value of identifiable intangible assets, long-lived assets and goodwill annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that such carrying value may not be recoverable.
Factors considered important, which could trigger an impairment review, include the following: significant under performance relative to historical or projected future results: significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business: Group market capitalisation being less than the carrying value of net assets: and significantly negative industry or economic trends.
indb 105 11 03 2014 21:17 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued The recoverable amounts of the Groups CGus are determined from value in use calculations based upon cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budget approved by management and the Board of Directors for the next year and longer range financial plans covering the subsequent four years that have been reviewed and approved by management and the Board of Directors.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding the growth in future sales, projected production costs, operating expenditures, the discount rates and terminal growth rates.
The Group determines discount rates to be used based on the risk inherent in the related activitys current business model and industry comparisons, where these risks cannot be reflected in cashflows.
Terminal values are based on the forecasted cash flows in the final year of the five year long range plan.
While the Group believes that its assumptions are appropriate, such amounts estimated could differ materially from what will actually occur in the future.
In assessing goodwill, these discounted cash flows are prepared at a cash-generating unit level.
Note 13 to the financial statements provides further disclosures on the assumptions underlying the impairment review and the allocation of goodwill by reportable segments.
Accounting for Share-based Payments Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of shares that are expected to become exercisable.
The estimates of the number of share options and awards that are expected to become exercisable are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
The impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, is recognised in the income statement and a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Where there are indicators that there have been changes to non-market vesting conditions, subsequent to the grant date, the amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares that vest.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the buyer, continuing managerial involvement usually associated with ownership and effective control have ceased, the amount of revenue can be measured reliably, it is probable that economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably.
This requires the Group to assess at the point of delivery whether these criteria have been met.
When the Group determines that such criteria have been met, revenue is recognised.
The Group records estimated reductions to revenue for pricing agreements, price protection, other volume based rebates and expected returns.
Estimated revenue adjustments for volume based discount programs are based largely on shipment information.
Income Taxes The Group is subject to the income tax laws of the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, principally the united Kingdom.
These laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by taxpayers and tax authorities.
When establishing income tax provisions, we therefore make a number of judgements and interpretations about the application and interaction of these laws.
Changes in these tax laws or our interpretations of these laws and the resolution of future tax audits could significantly impact our effective tax rate and the results of operations in a given period.
Where it is probable that a position may be successfully challenged by revenue authorities, a tax provision is created for the tax on the probable adjustment.
The Group estimates its income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
This process involves estimating its current tax liability together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes.
These differences result in the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within the balance sheet to the extent that we believe they are recoverable.
Managements judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets have been recognised where management believes there are sufficient taxable temporary differences or it is probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available in future to realise deferred tax assets.
Although the deferred tax assets which have been recognised are considered realisable, actual amounts could be reduced if future taxable income is lower than expected.
This could materially affect the Groups reported net income and balance sheet.
Litigation and claims The Group may be subject to claims, legal actions and complaints, including patent infringements, arising in the normal course of business.
The likelihood and ultimate outcome of such occurrences is not presently determinable therefore the Group uses estimation and judgement on whether any of these claims or litigation should result in a liability being recognised.
Issues can, and do, take many years to resolve.
Significant items of litigation and claims on which the Group has exercised accounting judgement in respect of whether or not to recognise a contingent liability are discussed in note 26.
The inherent uncertainty regarding the outcome of these items means eventual resolution could differ from the accounting estimates and therefore impact the Groups results and cash flows.
106 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
