Non-IFRS measures We prepare our financial statements in accordance with IFRS, however we also report alternative measures that we call underlying.
We believe that these measures give management and users a clearer understanding of the on-going performance of the group, ignoring the impact of items that we deem to be exceptional and which may distort trends.
underlying measures are financial metrics that different from those required under IFRS.
To calculate underlying measures we exclude three types of transactions from the results reported under IFRS 1 From time to time events occur which due to their size or nature are considered separately to the Groups ongoing performance.
The gains and losses of such items can have a material impact the Groups profit in either one year, or as a trend.
Such items include the impact of acquisitions such as Zoran in 2011: the impact of significant disposals such as the Samsung transaction during 2012: the cost of business transformations following such transactions: and the impact of any impairments of assets acquired on acquisitions, including goodwill.
Where such events are excluded we provide additional analysis to enable these discrete events to be understood by users of the financial statements 2 Costs arising from movement in the valuation of share options, including the tax impact of these changes, since we believe this reflects a non-cash cost which may obscure the trends in the underlying business.
Such charges are calculated on a number of assumptions which are outside of the Groups control such as the volatility of markets, comparator performance and employee behavior.
3 The impact of other non-cash accounting adjustments that are required under IFRS, the impact of which is outside the Companys control such as fair value adjustment on acquisition, and the unwind of these through ongoing amortisation.
We believe that such charges obscure trends in underlying business performance.
The table on page 151 specifically defines our underlying measures in comparison with the measures required under IFRS: What do we use underlying measures for?
We use underlying measures to evaluate performance and value creation: make resource allocation decisions: provide performance targets for management remuneration and reward: and target long term growth opportunities.
Why do we report these underlying measures in the financial statements?
We present underlying measures in these financial statements as we believe they provide consistency between the way the business is reported, and the the way management view the business and discuss its performance with investors: share metrics with all investors at the same time: disclose the main drivers of management remuneration and reward and assist investors in understanding management decisions and the long term value of CSR.
Are underlying measures robust and reliable to use?
CSR cautions that whilst we define our underlying measures in detail on page 151, these are not defined terms under IFRS or any other GAAP, and therefore the definitions should be carefully reviewed by investors.
Investors should be aware that the definition of underlying measures can differ between companies, even if such measures have similar names.
In particular: underlying measures are not intended to be a substitute for IFRS measures: underlying measures are not superior to the IFRS measures reported: The adjustments made between underlying and IFRS measures are in some cases recurring.
We do not represent that these are outside the normal course of business: and Some of these adjustments are based on managements judgement in terms of both classification and estimation.
150 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
indb 150 11 03 2014 21:17 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Reconciliation of underlying measures to IFRS.
The table below defines the calculation of our underlying measures and shows the most directly comparable IFRS measure: Non-GAAP Financial Measure Explanation Most Directly Comparable IFRS Measure underlying research and development Represents research and development other research and development expenses expenses expenses excluding share based payment charges and amortisation of acquired intangible assets underlying sales, general and administration Represents sales, general and other sales, general and administration expenses administration expenses excluding share expenses based payment charges, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, litigation settlement, impairment of assets, and integration and restructuring charges underlying gross profit Represents revenue less other cost of gross profit sales and excludes amortisation of acquired intangible assets and fair value adjustment to inventory recorded before gross profit underlying gross margin Represents the ratio of underlying gross gross margin profit to revenue underlying cost of sales Represents other cost of sales less other cost of sales amortisation of acquired intangible assets underlying operating profit Represents underlying gross profit after operating profit deduction of underlying research and development and underlying sales, general and administrative expenses underlying net profit Represents underlying operating profit, net profit plus investment revenue, less finance costs, excluding the unwinding of the discount on the litigation liability and tax, excluding the tax effects of the adjustments made to underlying operating profit and the recognition of deferred tax assets for acquired tax losses underlying tax Represents tax excluding the tax effects tax of the adjustments made to underlying operating profit, the impact of tax rate changes on our deferred tax assets, the movement in uncertain tax positions in the year and changes to deferred tax assets due to additional loss or other temporary difference recognition or fide-recognition underlying diluted earnings per share Represents underlying net profit divided diluted earnings per share by the weighted average number of diluted shares free cash flow Represents cash generated by operations, cash generated from operations less amounts spent on tangible and intangible fixed assets The tables below reconcile our underlying measures to the IFRS measures presented in our consolidated income statement for the current year 2013, and prior year comparatives 2012 and 2011.
Specifically they reconcile: Gross Profit to underlying Gross Profit Gross Margin to underlying Gross Margin R&D Expenses to underlying R&D Expenses SG&A Expenses to underlying SG&A Expenses Operating profit loss to underlying operating profit loss Profit before tax to underlying profit before tax Taxation to underlying taxation Net Profit to underlying Net Profit the phrase Net Profit can be substituted by profit for the period Diluted earnings per share eps to underlying diluted eps www.
The number of dilutive shares in 2013 differs from that used in the calculation of diluted loss per share on the consolidated income statement, as in this period the number of share options are not dilutive, however they are dilutive for underlying diluted earnings per share represented a profit in this period.
There is no difference in the number of dilutive shares for 2012 or 2011.
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 27 December 2013 28 December 2012 30 December 2011 Number of shares Number of shares Number of shares Weighted average number of shares used in diluted earnings per share calculations 164,181,841 203,231,504 181,393,972 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares share options 11,058,408 Weighted average number of shares used in underlying diluted earnings per share calculations 175,240,249 203,231,504 181,393,972 www.
