Accounts S tatement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Responsibility statement and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law I confirm to the best of my knowledge: andregulations.
The financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the takenas a whole: European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the Parent Company financial statements under 2.
The strategic report, which is incorporated into the Directors IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that of the business and the position of the Company and the they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, and of the profit and loss of the Company for that period.
In together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: that they face: and properly select and apply accounting policies: 3.
The annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, arefair, balanced and understandable and provide the information p resent information, including accounting policies, ina necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, mannerthatprovides relevant, reliable, comparable business model and strategy.
and understandable information: By order of the Board provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand Osman Shahenshah the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions Chief Executive onthe entitys financial position and financial performance: and 26 March 2014 make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue asagoingconcern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time thefinancial position of the Company and enable them to ensure thatthe financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They arealso responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection offraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity ofthecorporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Afren plc 106 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
