Accounting policies Year ended 31 March 2013 Basis of preparation aggregation criteria set out in IFRS 8 when aggregated for external The consolidated and Company financial statements are presented reporting purposes.
Those segments that have been aggregated in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest 0.1 million and a description of the key judgements made in reaching that million except where otherwise indicated.
conclusion are set out in Note 1 of the accounts.
The consolidated financial statements of Dairy Crest Group plc have Changes in accounting policies been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the The following accounting standards and interpretations became European Union.
The separate Company financial statements have effective for the current reporting period: been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs 2006.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption IFRS 7 Amendments to IFRS 7: Disclosures Transfers of provided under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to Financial Assets.
publish its individual income statement and related notes.
IAS 12 Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes deferred tax: recovery of underlying assets.
Having reviewed and taken into account Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, The application of these standards has had no impact on the net published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009, the assets, results and disclosures of the Group in the year ended Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have 31 March 2013. adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards with an preparing the financial statements.
See the Going Concern effective date after the date of these accounts and interpretations: Statement on page 53. International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets effective from 1 January 2015 and liabilities within the next financial year are i the measurement of IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements effective from the impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and 1 January 2013 equipment ii the measurement of defined benefit pension scheme IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements effective from 1 January 2013 assets and obligations iii the estimation of tax costs in France in IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities effective from relation to the sale of St Hubert.
1 January 2013 IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement effective from 1 January 2013 i The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual IAS 1 Amendments to IAS 1: Presentation of Financial Statements basis and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the effective from 1 July 2012 cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated.
The IAS 19 Amendments to IAS 19: Employee Benefits effective from assessment of value in use is compared to the carrying value of 1 January 2013 goodwill.
This requires estimation of future cash flows and the IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements effective from 1 January selection of a suitable discount rate.
Goodwill in Dairies was fully 2013 impaired in the year ended 31 March 2012.
IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures effective from 1 January 2013 The Group tests whether intangible assets, property, plant and IAS 32 Amendments to IAS 32: Financial Instruments equipment are impaired where there are indications that there is a Presentation effective from 1 January 2014 risk of impairment.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units in which these assets reside.
The International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee assessment of value in use is compared to the carrying value of IFRIC assets.
This requires estimation of future cash flows and the IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface selection of a suitable discount rate.
Mine effective from 1 January 2013 ii Measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards estimation of future changes in inflation, mortality rates, the expected and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups return on plan assets and the choice of a suitable discount rate.
financial statements in the period of initial application with the exception of the amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The iii The sale of the St Hubert business will result in tax payable in principal impact on the Group of the application of this standard will France both on the chargeable gain on disposal and on dividend be the requirement to use the discount rate when calculating payments made to the UK parent between 31 March 2012 and the expected returns on the asset component of pension cost.
We date of disposal in August 2012.
An estimate has been made of the currently calculate expected returns based on return assumptions likely tax costs resulting from these transactions.
However, the final on the actual classes of asset held.
This change is likely to result in assessment has yet to be agreed with the French tax authorities higher charges to the Consolidated Income Statement for the which may result in a change to the level of tax provisioning.
There is no material impact on the reported pension liabilities each year end as the impact in the Consolidated Further analysis of the key sources of estimation uncertainty and Income Statement is mitigated by an offsetting change in the sensitivities are included in the relevant notes to the accounts.
calculation of actuarial gains and losses in the Statement of Comprehensive Income namely the difference between actual and The key judgements made by management in the process of expected asset returns will increase.
applying the Group accounting policies are those used to determine whether certain individual operating segments meet all of the Further details are included in Note 20 to the accounts.
64 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 72236 Glasshouse p64 p69.
indd 64 04 06 2013 05:55 Consolidation purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of Dairy asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of Crest Group plc and its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 March each operating in the manner intended by management.
Depreciation is year using consistent accounting policies.
All intercompany balances calculated to write off the cost less residual value of property, plant and transactions, including unrealised profits and losses arising from and equipment, excluding freehold land, on a straight-line basis over intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: Freehold buildings: 25 years Subsidiaries acquired during the year are consolidated from the date Leasehold land and buildings: 25 years or, if shorter, the period on which control is transferred to the Group.
Subsidiaries continue of the lease to be consolidated until the date that control ceases.
Office equipment: 4 to 6 years Where the Group ceases to control a subsidiary, it i derecognises Factory plant and equipment: 6 to 20 years the assets including goodwill and liabilities of the subsidiary: ii Vehicles: 4 to 10 years derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest: iii derecognises the cumulative translation differences on net assets The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed for and borrowings designated as net investment hedges, previously impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that recorded in other comprehensive income: iv recognises the fair the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If the carrying value value of any investment or associate retained: and v recognises any exceeds the estimated recoverable value, the asset is written down surplus or deficit in the consolidated income statement, and vi to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of plant and reclassifies the parents share of components previously recognised equipment is the greater of the fair value less costs to sell or value in in other comprehensive income or retained earnings as appropriate.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that Interest in associates reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and The Groups investments in associates are accounted for under the the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate equity method of accounting.
Associates are entities over which the largely independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is Group exerts significant influence.
The Company and its associates determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The investment in associates are Impairment losses are charged to the consolidated income carried in the balance sheet at initial fair value plus post-acquisition statement.
changes in the Groups share of net assets, less any impairment in value and any distributions received.
The consolidated income An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon statement reflects the share of the post-tax results of associates.
disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise Where there has been a change recognised directly in the from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on associates other comprehensive income, the Group recognises its derecognition of the asset is included in the consolidated income share of such changes and discloses this, where applicable in other statement in the year that it is derecognised.
Borrowing costs Foreign currency translation Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction The functional and presentational currency of Dairy Crest Group plc or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period and its United Kingdom UK subsidiaries is Sterling.
of time to get ready for its intended use are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective assets.
All other borrowing costs are Transactions in foreign currency are initially recorded in the functional recognised as an expense in the period they occur.
currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Investments Sterling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences on The Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at cost monetary items are taken to the income statement, except where being the fair value of consideration paid, less provisions for recognised in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow impairment where appropriate.
hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
Business combinations and Goodwill On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are Business combinations from 1 April 2010 are accounted for using translated into sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results of the acquisition method previously used the purchase method.
The foreign subsidiaries are translated into sterling at average rates of cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the exchange for the year being an approximation of actual exchange consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value, rates.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the net and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
The investment in foreign subsidiaries at year end exchange rates, less choice of measurement of non-controlling interest, either at fair value exchange differences on borrowings, which finance or provide a or at the proportionate share of acquirees identifiable net assets will hedge against those undertakings are taken to a separate be determined on a transaction by transaction basis.
Acquisition component of equity as long as IFRS hedge accounting conditions costs incurred are expensed to profit and loss.
Exchange differences relating to foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost being the cost of foreign entity remain in equity until the disposal of the net investment, the acquisition see above less net identifiable amounts of the assets at which time they are recognised in the consolidated income acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the business statement.
Property, plant and equipment Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment depreciation and any impairment losses.
Cost comprises the annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 65 72236 Glasshouse p64 p69.
indd 65 04 06 2013 05:55 The numbers Accounting policies continued annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances Research and development indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
All goodwill was Expenditure on research is written off as incurred.
Development tested for impairment at the time of transition to IFRS and no expenditure is also written off as incurred unless the future impairment was identified.
recoverability of this expenditure can reasonably be assured as required by IAS 38: Intangible Assets.
Goodwill recognised under UK GAAP prior to the date of transition to IFRS is stated at the net book value as at this date and is not Recoverable amount of non-current assets subsequently amortised.
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired.
Where an indicator of As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to the impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of recoverable cash-generating unit or groups of cash-generating units expected to amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its benefit from the combinations synergies.
Impairment is determined recoverable amount the asset is considered impaired and is written by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to down to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, loss is recognised.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash generating unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss Inventories on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
circumstance is measured on the basis of the relative values of the Cost includes the purchase price of raw materials on a first in first operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit out basis, direct labour and a proportion of manufacturing retained.
overheads based on normal operating capacity incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition.
Net realisable The Groups cash-generating units, for the purpose of considering value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business goodwill, are Dairies, Spreads, MH Foods and Cheese.
These less estimated costs of completion and selling costs.
represent the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for management purposes and are no larger than the Groups operating Trade and other receivables segments.
Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 April 1998 has been An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full charged against the merger reserve and will remain set off against amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when reserves even if the related investment becomes impaired or the identified.
Cash and cash equivalents The Group has not restated business combinations prior to the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and transition date of 1 April 2004.
Acquisitions prior to this date are short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
recorded under previous accounting rules.
For the purposes of the Consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined Intangible assets above, net of bank overdrafts.
Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised at fair value separately from goodwill if the fair value can Interest bearing loans be measured reliably on initial recognition and the future expected All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of economic benefits flow to the Group.
Following initial recognition, the the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any borrowing.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either finite effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into or indefinite.
Currently, all the Groups intangible assets have finite account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on useful lives and are amortised over 3 to 15 years.
Gains and losses are recognised in the Consolidated assets principally comprise acquired brands and, following the sale Income Statement when the liabilities are derecognised.
of St Hubert, principally the FryLight brand which was considered to have a useful life of 15 years at the date of acquisition.
Net debt The Group and Company define net debt as cash and cash Useful lives are also examined on an annual basis and adjustments, equivalents, interest bearing loans and finance leases.
The where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
calculation of net debt excludes the fair value of derivative financial instruments with the exception of cross currency swaps to fix foreign Intangible assets generated internally comprise software currency debt in Sterling where they are designated as cash flow development expenditure.
Software development is carried at cost hedges.
In this case the fixed Sterling debt, not the underlying less accumulated amortisation and is amortised over four to seven foreign currency debt retranslated, is included in net debt.
Internally generated intangible assets that are not yet available any cash or borrowings included within disposal groups classified as for use are tested for impairment annually either individually or at the held for sale and excludes unamortised upfront facility fees.
cash-generating unit level or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Retirement benefit obligations The asset or liability in respect of defined benefit schemes is the present value of the relevant defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets and an adjustment for 66 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 past service costs not yet vested.
The independent actuary the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income completes a full actuarial valuation of the Dairy Crest Group pension statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
The obligation is updated annually for financial reporting purposes by the actuary using the projected unit credit No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, method.
The present value of the obligation is determined by except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of high quality corporate bonds, which have terms to maturity whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, approximating the terms of the related liability.
provided that all other performance or service conditions are satisfied.
The current service costs, settlement gains or losses and any curtailment gains are recognised in operating costs in the Where an equity-settled award is cancelled including when a Consolidated Income Statement, classified as cost of sales, non-vesting condition within the control of the entity or employee is distribution costs or administrative expenses depending upon which not met, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, area of the business active members are employed in.
Past service and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the costs are included in operating costs where the benefits have award is expensed immediately.
vested, otherwise they are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The expected return on assets of funded defined Rights granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings over equity benefit schemes and the interest on pension scheme liabilities instruments of the Company are treated as an investment in the comprise the finance element of the pension cost and the difference Companys balance sheet.
between these amounts are included in other finance income or costs.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience Employees Share Ownership Plan ESOP adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in The shares in the Company held by the Dairy Crest Employees full and are charged or credited to other comprehensive income in Share Ownership Plan Trust to satisfy Long Term Incentive Share the period in which they arise.
Plan awards are presented as a deduction from equity in arriving at shareholders equity.
Consideration received from the sale of such The recognition of any future retirement benefit surplus as calculated shares is also recognised in equity with no gain or loss recognised by the actuary as part of the annual update for reporting purposes, in the Consolidated Income Statement.
is limited to the present value, using an appropriate discount rate, of any real cash benefit the Company will obtain in the future through The Group and Company have not adopted the exemption to cash net of taxes or costs on a winding up of the scheme.
In order apply IFRS 2 Share-based payments only to awards made after to calculate the potential future benefits, or to establish whether a 7 November 2002. liability needs to be established under IFRIC 14, consideration is given to any minimum funding requirements agreed between the Leased assets Company and the Pension Trustee.
Assets acquired under finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the Contributions to the Dairy Crest defined contribution pension leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at fair value scheme are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Any of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date are included as an lease payments.
The net present value of future lease rentals is accrual at that date.
The Group has no further payment obligations included as a liability on the balance sheet.
The interest element of once contributions have been settled.
lease rentals is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in the year.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks Share based payments and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating Equity based performance payments leases.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the Consolidated The Group and Company has issued equity-settled share based Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
payment schemes for which they receive services from employees in consideration for the equity instrument.
Equity-settled share Revenue based payment schemes are measured at fair value at the grant Revenue on sale of food and dairy products is recognised on date by an external valuer using an appropriate pricing model.
Revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating service and performance vesting conditions, other than sales within the Group.
performance conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
Any other conditions which are Dividend income is recognised when the Companys right to receive required to be met in order for an employee to become fully entitled payment is established.
to an award are considered to be non-vesting conditions.
Like market performance conditions, non-vesting conditions are taken Other income into account in determining the grant date fair value.
Other income comprises the profit on disposal of closed depots.
The cost of equity settled transactions with employees is measured Exceptional items by reference to the fair value and is recognised as an expense over Certain items are recorded separately in the Consolidated Income the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant Statement as exceptional.
Only items of a material, one-off nature, employees became fully entitled to the award.
At each balance sheet which result from a restructuring of the business or some other event date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, or circumstance are disclosed in this manner in order to give a better representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and understanding of the underlying operational performance of the managements best estimate of the number of equity instruments Group.
The profits arising on disposal of closed sites, other than as a that will ultimately vest.
The movement in cumulative expense since result of depot rationalisation, are reported within exceptional items.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 67 72236 Glasshouse p64 p69.
indd 67 04 06 2013 05:58 The numbers Accounting policies continued Government and other grants Income tax is charged or credited to Other Comprehensive Income Government grants are initially recognised at their fair value where if it relates to items that are charged or credited to Other there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all Comprehensive Income.
Similarly, income tax is charged or credited attaching conditions will be complied with.
When the grant relates to directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged an expense item, it is recognised as income over the periods directly to equity.
Otherwise income tax is recognised in the necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that Consolidated Income Statement.
it is intended to compensate.
Where the grant relates to an asset, the fair value is credited to a deferred income account and is Financial assets released to the Consolidated Income Statement over the expected The Group and Company classifies financial assets that are within useful life of the relevant asset in equal annual instalments.
the scope of IAS 39 as: financial assets at fair value through profit and loss: Income tax loans and receivables: Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount held-to-maturity investments: or expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The Group and Company determines the classification of financial Deferred income tax is provided on all temporary differences at the assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities financial year-end.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, except are measured at fair value.
The Group and Company currently hold as indicated below.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable Derivative instruments temporary differences except: The Group and Company use derivative financial instruments such where the deferred income tax liability arises from initial as forward currency contracts, cross-currency swaps and interest recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset or rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with interest rate and liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at foreign currency fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently re-measured to nor taxable profit or loss: and fair value at each balance sheet date.
in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swap and differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
cross-currency swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments and specific valuations performed by Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible counterparties at the balance sheet date.
temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, either: the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can fair value hedges where they hedge the exposure to changes in be utilised except: the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit transaction, or a firm commitment in relation to foreign exchange nor taxable profit or loss: and exposure: or in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with net investment hedges where they hedge the exposure to investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint variability in the translated net assets of an overseas operation.
ventures, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the Neither the Group nor the Company has entered into any fair value foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against hedges during the year.
which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Cash flow hedges The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at In relation to cash flow hedges which meet the conditions for hedge each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred Other Comprehensive Income and the ineffective portion is income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
are expected to apply in the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been When the hedged firm commitment in relation to foreign exchange enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
exposure or the highly probable forecast transactions results in the recognition of a non-monetary asset or a liability, then, at the time Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset only if a legal the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses enforcement right exists to set off current tax assets against current that had previously been recognised in Other Comprehensive tax liabilities, the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxation Income are included in the initial measurement of the acquisition authority and that authority permits the group to make a single cost or other carrying amount of the asset or liability.
For all other net payment.
cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in Other 68 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 Comprehensive Income are transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement in the same year in which the hedged item affects the net profit and loss, for example when the future sale actually occurs, interest payments are made or when debt matures.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the Consolidated Income Statement for the year.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations Where the Group hedges net investments in overseas entities through currency borrowings, the gains and losses on retranslation of those borrowings are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income.
If the Group uses derivatives as the hedging instrument, the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in Other Comprehensive Income, with any ineffective portion being recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement whenever applicable.
Gains and losses accumulated in Other Comprehensive Income are reclassified to the Consolidated Income Statement on disposal of the foreign entity.
In order to satisfy hedge accounting, the Group or Company documents in advance the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group or Company also documents and demonstrates an assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge has been and will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
The effectiveness testing is re-performed on a regular basis being at least half-yearly to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in Other Comprehensive Income is retained in Other Comprehensive Income until the highly probable forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in Other Comprehensive Income is transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement for the period.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts, and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the Consolidated Income Statement.
When the contracts are closely related and hedge accounting is adopted, they are designated at inception and treated as described above.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 69 The numbers
