Innovating for the future Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Accounting policies Company Basis of preparation Other receivables Where the Company grants options The financial statements of fide La Rue plc Other receivables are measured at over its own shares to the employees the Company have been prepared under amortised cost less any provision for of its subsidiary undertakings these the historical cost convention and have impairment.
Trade and other receivables awards are accounted for by the been prepared in accordance with the are discounted when the time value of Company, as an additional investment Companies Act 2006 and applicable money is considered material.
The costs are determined UK accounting standards.
in accordance with FRS 20 share based Investments payments.
Any payments made by the Under Section 408 of the Companies Act Investments are stated at cost or valuation subsidiary undertaking in respect of these 2006, the Company is exempt from the in the balance sheet, less provision for arrangements are treated as a return of requirement to present its own profit and any permanent diminution in the value this investment.
The Company has taken of the investment.
advantage of the exemption in Financial Share based payments recharged Retirement benefits Reporting Standard FRS 29 IFRS 7, to subsidiaries are recorded via the The pension rights of the Company Financial Instruments: Disclosures, not to intercompany loan account.
employees are dealt with through a prepare a financial instrument note as the self administered scheme, the assets Dividends information is available in the published of which are held independently of the Under FRS 21, final ordinary dividends consolidated financial statements of Groups finances.
The scheme is a payable to the shareholders of the the Group.
defined benefit scheme that is funded Company are recognised in the period The Company has taken advantage partly by contributions from members that they are approved by the shareholders.
of the exemption from preparing a cash and partly by contributions from the Interim ordinary dividends are recognised flow statement under the terms of FRS 1, Company and its subsidiaries at rates in the period that they are paid.
advised by independent professionally Taxation qualified actuaries.
In accordance with The accounts have been prepared as at The charge for taxation is based on the FRS 17, the Company accounts for its 30 March 2013, being the last Saturday in result for the period and takes into account contributions as though it were a defined March.
The comparatives for the 2011 12 taxation deferred because of timing contribution scheme.
This is because financial year are for the period ended differences between the treatment of certain the underlying assets and liabilities of the 31 March 2012. items for taxation and accounting purposes.
scheme cover the Company and a number The following accounting policies have been of its subsidiaries and those assets and Deferred tax is recognised, without applied consistently in dealing with items liabilities cannot be split between each discounting, in respect of all timing which are considered material in relation subsidiary on a consistent and reasonable differences between the treatment of certain to the Company financial statements.
Full details of the scheme and its items for taxation and accounting purposes deficit measured on an IAS 19 basis can which have arisen but not reversed by the Foreign currencies be found in note 22 to the consolidated balance sheet date, except as otherwise Amounts receivable from overseas financial statements.
required by FRS 19. subsidiaries which are denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Share based payments Financial guarantee contracts sterling at the appropriate year end rates The Company operates various equity Where the Company enters into financial of exchange.
Exchange gains and losses and cash settled option schemes although guarantee contracts to guarantee the on translating foreign currency amounts the majority of plans are settled by the indebtedness of other companies within are included within the interest section issue of shares.
The services received the Group, the Company considers of the profit and loss account except for from employees are measured by reference these to be insurance arrangements and exchange gains and losses associated with to the fair value of the share options.
accounts for them as such.
In this respect, hedging loans that are taken to reserves.
The fair value is calculated at grant date the Company treats the guarantee contract and recognised in the profit and loss as a contingent liability until such time as Transactions in foreign currencies are account, together with a corresponding it becomes probable that the Company translated into the functional currency at the increase in shareholders funds, on a will be required to make a payment under rates of exchange prevailing at the dates straight line basis over the vesting period, the guarantee.
Monetary based on an estimate of the number of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign shares that will eventually vest.
Vesting currencies are subsequently retranslated at conditions, other than market conditions, the rate of exchange ruling at the balance are not taken into account when estimating sheet date.
Such exchange differences the fair value.
FRS 20 has been applied to are taken to the profit and loss account.
share settled share options granted after 7 November 2002. fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 97
