Innovating for the future Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Accounting policies fide La Rue plc the Company is a Basis of preparation Basis of consolidation public limited company incorporated The consolidated financial statements The consolidated financial statements and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
have been prepared under the historical incorporate the financial statements The address of its registered office is cost convention with the exception of of the Company and entities controlled disclosed on page 102 of this annual certain items which are measured at by the Company its subsidiaries up to report.
The consolidated financial fair value as disclosed in the accounting 30 March 2013.
Control exists when the statements of the Company for the period policies below.
The accounts have been Company has the power to govern the ended 30 March 2013 comprise the prepared as at 30 March 2013, being the financial and operating policies of an entity Company and its subsidiaries together last Saturday in March.
The comparatives so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
referred to as the Group and the Groups for the 2011 12 financial year are for the In assessing control, potential voting rights interest in associates.
The Company period ended 31 March 2012. that are currently exercisable are taken financial statements present information into account.
The results of subsidiaries The Groups business activities, together about the Company as a separate entity acquired or disposed of during the year with the factors likely to affect its future and not about its Group.
The principal are included in the consolidated financial development, performance and position activities of the Group are described statements from the date that control are set out on pages 20 to 23 and 27 to in note 1.
The principal accounting commences or until the date that control 30 of the business review.
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of ceases.
The majority of the subsidiaries policies used in the preparation of the these consolidated financial statements prepare their financial statements up to financial position are described in pages are set out below.
These policies have 30 March except for certain subsidiaries 65 to 70.
In addition, pages 79 to 84 been consistently applied to all the years whose year end is 31 December.
include the Groups objectives, policies and presented, unless otherwise stated.
In the case of the subsidiaries whose processes for financial risk management, financial statements are made up to Statement of compliance details of its financial instruments and 31 December 2012, results for the European Union EU law IAS Regulation hedging activities and its exposure to credit period to 30 March 2013 and the balance EC 1606 2002 requires that the risk, liquidity risk and commodity pricing sheet as at 30 March 2013 have been consolidated financial statements, for the risk.
The financial position of the Group, its consolidated.
period ended 30 March 2013, be prepared cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing in accordance with international financial facilities are described on pages 24 to 26 On acquisition, the assets, liabilities reporting standards IFRS as adopted by of the business review.
and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary the EU Adopted IFRS.
These consolidated are measured at their fair values at the As described on page 26, the Group financial statements have been approved date of acquisition.
Any excess of the meets its funding requirements through by the Directors and prepared in cost of acquisition over the fair values cash generated from operations and a accordance with Adopted IFRS including of the identifiable net assets acquired revolving credit facility which expires in interpretations issued by the International is recognised as goodwill.
The Groups forecasts Accounting Standards Board IASB.
of the cost of acquisition below the and projections, which cover a period of fair values of the identifiable net assets The Company has elected to prepare more than 12 months, taking into account acquired ie discount on acquisition is its financial statements in accordance with reasonably possible changes in normal credited to the income statement in the UK generally accepted accounting practice trading performance, show that the period of acquisition.
Group should be able to operate within adjustments are made to the financial its currently available facilities.
The Group During the year a number of amendments statements of subsidiaries to bring the has sufficient financial resources together to IFRS became effective and were accounting policies used into line with with assets that are expected to generate adopted by the Group, none of which those used by the Group.
cash flow in the normal course of business.
had a material impact on the Groups As a consequence and notwithstanding All intra Group transactions, balances, net cash flows, financial position, total the net liability position being reported in income and expenses are eliminated comprehensive income or earnings the consolidated balance sheet, which on consolidation.
A number of other new and has primarily arisen due to the value amended IFRS were issued during the year of the deficit in the retirement benefit which do not become effective until after obligations, or the uncertainty as to the 30 March 2013, other than revisions to outcome of the paper production issues IAS 19 Employee Benefits, none of these noted on page 15, the Directors have a are likely to have a material impact on the reasonable expectation that the Company Group for the 2013 14 year.
and the Group are well placed to manage Note 22 to the consolidated financial their business risks and to continue in statements describes in greater detail how operational existence for the foreseeable the revised IAS 19 would have impacted future.
Accordingly, the Directors continue 2012 13 had the amendments been to adopt the going concern basis in applied and also estimates the impact preparing the annual report and accounts.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 65 Accounting policies Continued Significant accounting policies Net investment in foreign operations However, if the hedged item results in and judgements applied Foreign currency differences arising the recognition of a non financial asset or Foreign currency on the retranslation of a financial liability liability, the amounts accumulated in equity Foreign currency transactions designated as a hedge of a net investment on the hedging instrument are transferred These financial statements are presented in foreign operations are recognised in the from equity and included in the initial in sterling, which is the functional and translation reserve to the extent the hedge measurement of the cost of the asset or presentational currency of the Company.
To the extent that the hedge liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued The functional currency of Group entities is ineffective, such differences are when the hedging instrument expires or is principally determined by the primary recognised as finance income or costs is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer economic environment in which the in the income statement.
Cumulative gains qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, respective entity operates.
or losses in equity arising since the date for forecast transactions, any cumulative of transition to Adopted IFRS are taken gain or loss on the hedging instrument Transactions in foreign currencies entered to the income statement on disposal recognised in equity is retained in equity into by Group entities are translated into of the foreign operation.
until the forecasted transaction occurs.
the functional currencies of those entities If a hedged transaction is no longer at the rates of exchange at the date of the Financial instruments expected to occur, the net cumulative gain transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities The Groups operating activities expose or loss recognised in equity is transferred denominated in foreign currencies at the it to financial risks of changes in foreign to the income statement.
Changes in the balance sheet date are translated at the currency exchange rates and interest fair value of derivative financial instruments rate of exchange ruling at that date.
The Group uses a range of derivative that do not qualify for hedge accounting exchange differences arising on translation instruments, including forward contracts are recognised in the income statement are recognised in the income statement.
and swaps to hedge its risk to changes as they arise.
in foreign exchange rates and interest Foreign currency non monetary items rates.
Derivative financial instruments Fair value hedges measured in terms of historical cost are are only used for hedging purposes.
For an effective hedge of an exposure translated at the rate of exchange at The use of financial derivatives is governed to changes in fair value of a recognised the date of the transaction.
Exchange by the Groups risk management policies asset or liability or an unrecognised firm differences on non monetary items are approved by the Board, which provide commitment, the hedged item is adjusted recognised in line with whether the gain written principles on the use of financial for changes in fair value attributable to the or loss on the non monetary item itself derivatives consistent with the Groups risk being hedged with the corresponding is recognised in the income statement risk management strategy.
Gains or losses or in equity.
from re-measuring the derivative or, Derivative financial instruments are In order to hedge its exposure to certain for non derivatives, the foreign currency recognised at fair value at the date a foreign exchange risks, the Group enters component of its carrying value, are derivative contract is entered into and into forward contracts refer to the recognised in net income.
are subsequently re-measured to their accounting policy on derivative financial fair value at each balance sheet date.
Embedded derivatives instruments below for details of the Groups The gain or loss on subsequent fair value Derivatives embedded in other financial accounting policies in respect of such measurement is recognised in the income instruments or other non financial derivative financial instruments.
statement unless the derivative qualifies host contracts are treated as separate Financial statements of foreign operations for hedge accounting when recognition derivatives when their risks and Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, of any resultant gain or loss depends characteristics are not closely related to including goodwill and intangible assets, on the nature of the item being hedged.
those of the host contracts and the host are translated at the exchange rate contracts are not carried at fair value.
Cash flow hedges prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Any unrealised gains or losses on such Changes in the fair value of derivative Income and expenses are translated separated derivatives are reported in the financial instruments that are designated at average exchange rates which income statement.
and are effective as hedges of future cash approximate to actual rates.
Exchange flows are recognised directly in equity Revenue recognition differences arising on retranslation are and the ineffective portion is recognised Group revenue predominantly represents recognised in the Groups translation immediately in the income statement.
sales to external customers of reserve, which is a component of equity.
Amounts accumulated in equity are manufactured products which fall within When a foreign operation is sold, exchange recycled to the income statement in the the Groups ordinary trading activities.
differences that were recorded in equity are period in which the hedged item also This excludes VAT and other sales taxes.
recognised in the income statement as part affects the income statement.
of the gain or loss on sale.
Revenue is recognised in the income statement to the extent that it is probable Exchange differences in respect of foreign that the economic benefits associated operations that arose before 27 March 2004, with the transaction will flow into the Group the date of transition to Adopted IFRS, and the amount can be reliably measured.
are presented as part of retained earnings, In practice this means that revenue is as permitted by IFRS 1. recognised when goods are supplied to external customers in accordance with the terms of sale.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 66 Innovating for the future Business review Corporate governance Financial statements When goods are supplied, this is when the Goodwill arising on acquisitions before The Groups policy is to write off the significant risks and rewards of ownership 27 March 2004 the date of transition to cost or valuation of all other plant and are transferred to the buyer.
IFRS has been retained at the previous equipment evenly over their estimated UK GAAP amounts subject to being remaining useful life at rates which vary Revenues and costs on project based tested for impairment at that date.
between 8 per cent and 50 per cent contracts are recognised by reference per annum.
The principal annual rate of to the stage of completion, based on the Development costs depreciation used is 10 per cent on plant work performed to date and the overall Expenditure incurred in the development and machinery and on fixtures and fittings.
The assessment of of products or enhancements to existing No depreciation is provided for assets in the stage of completion is dependent on product ranges is capitalised as an the course of construction.
the nature of the contract and is assessed intangible asset only when the future by reference to reviews of work performed, economic benefits expected to arise are Depreciation methods, residual values achievement of contractual milestones deemed probable and the costs can be and useful lives are reviewed at least at and costs incurred.
Development costs not each financial year end, taking into account meeting these criteria are expensed in the commercial and technical obsolescence Revenue on service based contracts income statement as incurred.
Capitalised as well as normal wear and tear, provision is recognised as services are provided.
development costs are amortised on a being made where the carrying value Interest income is accrued on a time basis, straight line basis over their estimated exceeds the recoverable amount.
by reference to the principal outstanding useful economic lives, which vary between Borrowing costs and at the effective interest rate applicable, five and ten years, once the product or Where borrowing costs are attributable to which is the rate that exactly discounts enhancement is available for use.
Product the acquisition, construction or production estimated future cash receipts through the research costs are written off as incurred.
of a qualifying asset, such costs are expected life of the financial asset to that Other intangible assets capitalised as part of the specific asset.
Intangible assets purchased separately, Impairment Intangible assets such as software licences that do not Financial assets All intangible assets, except goodwill, form an integral part of related hardware, A financial asset is assessed at each are stated at cost less accumulated are capitalised at cost less accumulated reporting date to determine whether there amortisation and any impairment losses.
is any objective evidence that it is impaired.
Goodwill is not amortised and is stated Software intangibles are amortised on a A financial asset is considered to be at cost less any accumulated straight line basis over the shorter of their impaired if objective evidence indicates impairment losses.
useful economic life or their licence period that one or more events have had a at rates which vary between three and Goodwill negative effect on the estimated future five years.
Goodwill arising on consolidation cash flows of that asset.
represents the excess of the fair value Distribution rights are capitalised at cost less An impairment loss in respect of a financial of consideration transferred in a business accumulated amortisation and impairment asset measured at amortised cost is combination over the Groups share of the losses and are amortised over their useful calculated as the difference between its fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities economic lives as determined by the life carrying amount and the present value of and contingent liabilities of the business of the products to which they relate.
the estimated future cash flows discounted acquired at the date of acquisition.
Property, plant and equipment at the original effective interest rate.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured Property, plant and equipment are stated Individually significant assets are tested at cost less any accumulated impairment at cost or valuation, less accumulated for impairment on an individual basis.
At the date of acquisition, the depreciation and any accumulated The remaining financial assets are goodwill is allocated to cash generating provision for impairment in value.
Assets in assessed collectively in groups that units for the purpose of impairment testing the course of construction are included in share similar credit risk characteristics.
and is tested annually for impairment or property, plant and equipment on the basis All impairment losses are recognised when there are indications of impairment.
of expenditure incurred at the balance in the income statement.
Any impairment loss is recognised sheet date.
immediately in the income statement No depreciation is provided on freehold and is not subsequently reversed.
Freehold and long leasehold buildings Gains and losses on the disposal of a are depreciated over their estimated useful business include the carrying amount of economic lives of 50 years.
Other leasehold goodwill relating to the business.
Goodwill interests are depreciated over the lesser arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries of the unexpired period of the lease and is presented in goodwill and goodwill 50 years.
arising on the acquisition of associates is presented in investments in associates.
Internally generated goodwill is not recognised as an asset.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 67 Accounting policies Continued Non financial assets Associated companies Assets held under finance leases are The carrying amounts of the Groups non An associate is an entity over which the initially recognised as property, plant and financial assets, other than inventories and Group is in a position to exercise significant equipment at an amount equal to the deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each influence, but not control or joint control, fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, balance sheet date to determine whether through participation in the financial and the present value of minimum lease there is any indication of impairment.
If operating policy decisions of the investee.
payments at the inception of the lease, any such indication exists then the assets Significant influence is presumed to exist and then depreciated over their useful recoverable amount is estimated.
For when the Group holds between 20 and economic lives.
Lease payments are goodwill and intangible assets that have 50 per cent of the voting power of apportioned between repayment of capital indefinite useful lives or that are not yet another entity.
The capital element of future ready for use, the recoverable amount lease payments is included in the balance The Groups share of the results, assets is estimated at each reporting date.
Interest is charged to and liabilities of associated companies the income statement so as to achieve a Assets that are subject to amortisation are included in these financial statements constant rate of interest on the remaining are reviewed for impairment whenever using the equity method of accounting, balance of the liability.
events or circumstances indicate that except when classified as held for sale.
the carrying value may not be recoverable.
The results are presented after interest, tax Rentals payable under operating leases In addition, goodwill is tested at least and non controlling interest.
Investments in are charged to the income statement on annually for impairment.
Impairment tests associates are carried in the balance sheet a straight line basis over the lease term.
are performed for all cash generating at cost as adjusted by the post acquisition Benefits received and receivable as an units CGUs to which goodwill has been changes in the Groups share of net assets incentive to enter into an operating lease allocated at the balance sheet date or of the associate, less any impairment in the are also spread on a straight line basis whenever there is indication of impairment.
value of the individual investment.
Losses over the lease term.
For all other intangible assets, an of the associate in excess of the Groups Where a leasehold property is vacant, impairment test is performed whenever interest in that associate are not recognised or sublet under terms such that the an indicator of impairment exists.
unless the Group has a legal or constructive rental income is less than the head lease obligation to fund those losses.
An impairment loss is recognised rental cost, provision is made for the best immediately in the income statement for Any excess of the cost of acquisition over estimate of unavoidable lease payments the amount by which the assets carrying the fair values of the identifiable net assets during the vacancy or on the anticipated value exceeds its recoverable amount, at the date of acquisition of the associate future shortfall of sub lease income the latter being the higher of the assets is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency compared with the head lease expense.
fair value less costs to sell and value in of the cost of acquisition below the Taxation use and, in the case of goodwill, is not fair values of the identifiable net assets The tax expense included in the income subsequently reversed.
In assessing value acquired ie discount on acquisition is statement comprises current and deferred in use, the estimated future cash flows are credited to the income statement in the tax.
Current tax is the expected tax discounted to their present value using a period of acquisition.
payable on the taxable income for the pre tax discount rate that reflects current Where a Group company transacts with an year, including adjustments in respect market assessments of the time value of associate of the Group, profits and losses of prior periods, using tax rates enacted money and the risks specific to the asset are eliminated to the extent of the Groups or substantively enacted by the balance for which the estimates of future cash flows interest in the associate.
provide evidence of an impairment of the Tax is recognised in the income statement For other intangible assets, at each asset transferred in which case appropriate except to the extent that it relates to items balance sheet date an assessment is made provision is made for impairment.
recognised directly in equity, in which case to determine whether there is any indication Associated companies prepare their it is recognised in equity.
that an impairment loss recognised in financial information as at 31 December.
prior periods may no longer exist or has Deferred tax is provided using the balance Results for the period to 30 March and the decreased.
Where such an indication exists, sheet liability method, providing for balance sheet as at 30 March have been an impairment loss is reversed to the extent temporary differences between the carrying included in the consolidated statements.
that the assets carrying value does not amounts of assets and liabilities for financial exceed the carrying amount that would Leasing reporting purposes and the amounts used have been determined, net of depreciation A lease is defined as an agreement for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is or amortisation, if no impairment loss had whereby the lessor conveys to the lessee measured using tax rates that have been been recognised.
the right to use a specific asset for an enacted or substantively enacted by the agreed period of time in return for a balance sheet date and that are expected payment or a series of payments.
to apply when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 68 Innovating for the future Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Deferred tax liabilities are generally Cash and cash equivalents Share based payments recognised for all taxable temporary Cash and cash equivalents comprise The Group operates various equity settled differences and deferred tax assets are bank balances and cash held by the and cash settled option schemes.
For recognised to the extent that it is probable Group and short term deposits with an equity settled share options, the services that future taxable profits will be available original maturity of three months or less.
received from employees are measured against which the temporary difference can Bank overdrafts that are repayable on by reference to the fair value of the share be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are demand and form part of the Groups cash options.
The fair value is calculated at grant not recognised if the temporary difference management are included as a component date and recognised in the consolidated arises from goodwill, not deductible for tax of cash and cash equivalents for the income statement, together with a purposes, or from the initial recognition purpose of the cash flow statement.
corresponding increase in shareholders other than in a business combination of equity, on a straight line basis over the Loans other assets and liabilities in a transaction vesting period, based on the number of Interest bearing borrowings are recognised that affects neither the taxable profit nor shares that are actually expected to vest, initially at fair value less attributable the accounting profit.
taking into account non market vesting transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial conditions including service conditions.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary recognition, interest bearing borrowings are Vesting conditions, other than non market differences arising on investments in stated at amortised cost with any difference based conditions, are not taken into subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, between cost and redemption value being account when estimating the fair value.
except where the Group is able to control recognised in the income statement over the timing of the reversal of the temporary the period of the borrowings on an effective For cash settled share options, the difference and it is probable that the interest basis.
services received from employees are temporary difference will not reverse measured at the fair value of the liability for Employment benefits in the foreseeable future.
options outstanding and recognised in the Pensions consolidated income statement on a straight The carrying amount of deferred tax assets The Group operates a number of retirement line basis over the vesting period.
The fair is reviewed at each balance sheet date and benefit schemes.
The major schemes are value of the liability is re-measured at each reduced to the extent that it is no longer defined benefit pension funds with assets reporting date and at the date of settlement probable that sufficient taxable profits will held separately from the Group.
The cost with changes in fair value recognised in the be available to allow all or part of the asset of providing benefits under each scheme consolidated income statement.
is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
Share option schemes Deferred tax assets and deferred tax The fide La Rue Employee Share Ownership liabilities are only offset to the extent that The current service cost and gains and Trust Trust is a separately administered there is a legally enforceable right to offset losses on settlements and curtailments trust.
Liabilities of the trust are guaranteed current tax assets and current tax liabilities, are included in operating costs in the Group by the Company and the assets of the Trust they relate to taxes levied by the same income statement.
Past service costs are mainly comprise shares in the Company.
taxation authority and the Group intends similarly included where the benefits have to settle its current tax assets and liabilities vested, otherwise they are amortised on The own shares held by the Trust are on a net basis or to realise an asset and a straight line basis over the vesting period.
shown as a reduction in shareholders settle a liability simultaneously.
The expected return on assets of funded funds.
The shares will be held at historical defined benefit pension schemes and rates until such time as they are disposed Inventories the imputed interest on pension scheme of.
Any profit or loss on the disposal of Inventories and work in progress are valued liabilities are disclosed as retirement benefit own shares is treated as a movement at the lower of cost and net realisable obligation finance income and retirement in reserves rather than as an income value.
Cost is determined on a weighted benefit obligation finance expense statement item.
average cost basis and comprises directly respectively in the income statement.
attributable purchase and conversion Provisions costs, including direct labour and an Differences between the actual and Provisions are recognised when the allocation of production overheads based expected return on assets, changes Group has a present obligation in respect on normal operating capacity that have in the retirement benefit obligation due of a past event, it is probable that an been incurred in bringing those inventories to experience and changes in actuarial outflow of resources will be required to to their present location and condition.
assumptions are included in the statement settle the obligation, and where the amount Net realisable value is the estimated selling of comprehensive income in full in the can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are price less estimated costs of completion period in which they arise.
measured at the Directors best estimate and selling costs.
of the amount required to settle the The liability recognised in respect of defined obligation at the balance sheet date and benefit pension plans is the present value are discounted where the time value of of the defined benefit obligation less the fair money is considered material.
value of the scheme assets, as determined by actuarial valuations carried out at the Dividends balance sheet date.
Final dividends proposed by the Board and unpaid at the year end are not recognised The Groups contributions to defined in the financial statements until they have contribution plans are charged to the been approved by the shareholders at the income statement in the period to which AGM.
Interim dividends are recognised the contributions relate.
in the period that they are paid.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 69 Accounting policies Continued Critical accounting judgements and Income taxes Pension obligations key sources of estimation uncertainty The Group is subject to income taxes Pension costs within the income statement The Groups accounting policies are set out in numerous jurisdictions and significant and the pension obligations as stated in above.
Management is required to exercise judgement is required in determining the the balance sheet are both dependent significant judgement in the application of worldwide provision for those taxes.
The upon a number of assumptions chosen by these policies.
Areas which management level of current and deferred tax recognised management.
These include the expected believe require the most critical accounting is dependent on subjective judgements as long term rate of return on the relevant plan judgements or which involve estimation are to the outcome of decisions to be made assets, the rate used to discount future set out below.
by the tax authorities in the various tax liabilities, the expected longevity for current jurisdictions around the world in which and future pensioners and estimates of Critical accounting judgements the Group operates.
It is necessary to future rates of inflation.
in applying the Groups accounting consider which deferred tax assets should policies The expected return on plan assets be recognised based on an assessment Cash flow hedge accounting assumption is determined on a uniform of the extent to which they are regarded The Group enters into forward contracts basis, taking into consideration long term as recoverable, which involves assessment to hedge the risk of movements in historical returns, asset allocation and of the future trading prospects of individual foreign exchange and interest rates.
future estimates of long term investment statutory entities.
The actual outcome These contracts fall within the definition returns.
The discount rate is the interest may vary from that anticipated.
Where the of derivative financial instruments and rate that should be used to determine final tax outcomes differ from the amounts accordingly have to be recorded at fair the present value of estimated future cash initially recorded, there will be impacts upon value.
Accounting for these contracts as outflows expected to be required to settle income tax and deferred tax provisions and cash flow hedges allows, to the extent the the pension obligations.
In determining on the income statement in the period in hedges are effective, the change in values the appropriate discount rate, the Group which such determination is made.
of the derivatives to be recognised in other considers the interest rates of high quality comprehensive income and accumulated Key sources of estimation uncertainty corporate bonds that are denominated in equity.
In order to achieve cash flow Impairment of assets in the currency in which the benefits will hedge accounting it is necessary for the The Group tests annually whether goodwill be paid, and that have terms to maturity Group to determine, on an ongoing basis, and other assets that have indefinite approximating to the terms of the related whether a forecast transaction being useful lives are impaired.
Other assets are pension liability.
See page 26 for details hedged is highly probable and whether reviewed for impairment whenever events of the relative sensitivity of the value of the hedge is effective.
or changes in circumstances indicate that the scheme liabilities to changes in the the carrying amount of the asset exceeds discount and inflation rates.
Exceptional items its recoverable amount.
The recoverable The Directors consider items of income amount of an asset or a cash generating and expenditure which are both material unit is determined based on value in use by size and or by nature and non recurring calculations prepared on the basis of should be disclosed separately in the managements assumptions and estimates financial statements so as to help provide of future cash flows, discounted at an indication of the Groups underlying suitable rates.
The Directors label these items collectively as exceptional Provisions for liabilities and charges items.
Determining which transactions The Group measures provisions at the are to be considered exceptional in nature Directors best estimate of the amount is often a subjective matter.
However, required to settle the obligation at the circumstances that the Directors believe balance sheet date, discounted where the would give rise to exceptional items for time value of money is considered material.
separate disclosure would include: gains These estimates take account of available or losses on the disposal of businesses information, historical experience and the other than those within the scope of likelihood of different possible outcomes.
IFRS 5, curtailments on defined benefit Both the amount and the maturity of pension arrangements, restructuring these liabilities could be different from of businesses and asset impairments.
All exceptional items are included on the appropriate income statement category to which they relate.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 70
