90 Notes to the financial statements For the financial year ended 31 August 2013 1 General information Introduction Debenhams plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 Company No.
The address of the registered office is 10 Brock Street, Regents Place, London NW1 3FG.
The principal activity of the Company is that of a holding company.
The principal activities of the Group and its subsidiaries together the Group or the Debenhams Group is the sale of fashion clothing and accessories, cosmetics and products for use in the home.
The Group trades from department stores in the UK, the Republic of Ireland and Denmark, on the internet and has international franchise stores.
The Group prepares its financial statements for the financial year ending on the nearest Saturday to 31 August of a given calendar year.
The principal companies within the Group during the financial year ended 31 August 2013 are disclosed in note 33.
2 Accounting policies The Groups principal accounting policies, as described below, have been consistently applied to all financial years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS including International Accounting Standards IAS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under accounting standards as adopted for use in the EU.
The consolidated financial statements for the financial years ended 31 August 2013 and 1 September 2012 have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The preparation of the financial statements, in conformity with IFRS, requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reporting amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these results are based on managements best knowledge of the amounts, events or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates see note 5.
Consolidation The financial statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of Debenhams plc and all its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries include all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which the Group has the power to control.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
On consolidation, inter company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of the Company and its subsidiaries have been changed where these have a significant impact on the Groups income statement or balance sheet to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of staff discounts and the cost of loyalty scheme points, and is stated net of value added tax and other sales-related taxes.
Revenue on department store sales of goods and commission on concession and consignment sales is recognised when goods are sold to the customer.
Retail sales are usually in cash or by credit or debit card.
Internet sales are recognised when the goods are despatched to the customer.
Revenue from gift cards and gift vouchers sold by the Group is recognised on the redemption of the gift card or gift voucher.
Revenue from sales to franchisees is recognised when the goods are despatched.
It is the Groups policy to sell its products to the end customer with a right of return.
Accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide for such returns at the time of sale.
Segmental reporting IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires segment information to be presented based on what is reported to the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
The Group has identified the executive committee as its Chief Operating Decision Maker and has identified two operating segments, UK and international.
Interest recognition Finance income and finance costs are recognised in the period to which they relate using the effective interest rate method.
