Strategic report Directors report Corporate governance report Directors remuneration report Financial statements Overview Strategy Financial review 41 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Inventory Stock levels were managed very tightly during the year given the difficult market conditions.
Total stock increased by 7.7% to 357.9 million with almost all of this increase attributable to online expansion and international growth.
The stock value into UK department stores fell by 0.7%.
Terminal stock at year end was in line with the historical average at 3.1%.
Pensions The Group provides a number of pension arrangements for its employees.
These include the Debenhams Retirement Scheme and the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan together the Groups pension schemes which both closed for future service accrual from 31 October 2006.
Under IAS 19, the Groups pension schemes net deficit as at 31August 2013 was 20.0 million 1 September 2012: 57.3 million.
Further information can be found in note 23 to the Group financial statements starting on page 116.
A triennial actuarial valuation was completed in March 2012 and discussions with the pension schemes trustees were subsequently concluded.
The contributions from the Group and the investment strategies devised by the trustees are intended to restore the schemes to a fully funded position on an ongoing basis by the end of March 2022 Debenhams Retirement Scheme and August 2021 Debenhams Executive Pension Plan.
As a consequence of this agreed plan, annual contributions to the two schemes were set at 8.9 million, rising each year by RPI.
The Group also pays the non-investment expenses and levies to the Pension Protection Fund.
Current pension arrangements for Debenhams employees are provided by a defined contribution pension scheme which is administered by Legal & General.
Financial position During the year, the Group extended 550.0 million of its 650.0 million senior credit facility from October 2015 to October 2016.
At the same time, the Group repurchased 35.0 million of the 100.0 million facility that was not extended.
The senior credit facility contains fixed charge cover and leverage covenants, which were both met in full during the year.
The directors believe that the Group has sufficient headroom to ensure compliance for the foreseeable future.
Financing risk and treasury management The board has established an overall treasury policy which has approved authority levels within which the treasury function must operate.
Treasury policy is to manage risks within the agreed framework whilst not taking speculative positions.
The policies and strategies for managing financial risks are disclosed in note 21 of the Group financial statements starting on page 109.
Simon Herrick Chief Financial Officer
