139 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Glossary and references Concessions Brands which are sold through our stores where the stock belongs to a third party concessionaire.
They are found chiefly in womenswear e. g. Wallis, Oasis, Warehouse and accessories e. g. Tripp luggage.
Core brands Brands designed and produced exclusively by Debenhams.
They include brands such as Collection, Mantaray, Maine New England and RedHerring.
They are found in all product categories.
Designers at Debenhams Exclusive diffusion ranges designed for Debenhams by leading international designers including Jasper Conran, John Rocha and Julien Macdonald.
Earnings per share EPS The profit for the year attributable to shareholders, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue.
EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation.
Footfall The number of people who visit our stores.
Free cash flow Cash generated from operations before exceptional items less net cash used in investing activities.
Gross margin Gross transaction value less the cost of goods sold, as a percentage of gross transaction value.
Gross transaction value GTV Sales excluding VAT on a gross basis before adjusting for concessions, consignments and staff discounts.
All references to sales in this report refer to GTV.
All references to revenue refer to statutory revenue.
International brands Brands such as Levis, Ben Sherman, Clarins and Este Lauder for which Debenhams owns the stock.
International segment Comprises sales to international franchise partners, stores in Denmark and the Republic of Ireland and online orders delivered outside the UK.
Market share The percentage of the market or market segment that is being serviced by Debenhams.
For instance, if 100 T-shirts were sold a year in the UK and Debenhams sold ten of them, it would have 10 % market share.
Market share references All references to clothing footwear accessories, womenswear, menswear, childrenswear and online market share relate to Kantar Worldpanel Fashion 24 weeks market share to 1September 2013 vs. 2012.
All references to beauty market share relate to NPD 52 weeks to August 2013.
All references to home and furniture market share relate to GfK EPOS panel 52 weeks to September 2013.
Multi-channel Multi-channel sales comprise those from online, mobile, instore ordering and click and collect.
We use online sales as a measure of the growth ofthe multi-channel business as it is the largest of these sales channels.
Own bought brands Brands for which Debenhams owns the stock.
They include core brands, Designers at Debenhams and international brands.
Own brands Debenhams exclusive brands, comprising core brands and Designers at Debenhams.
