98 Notes to the financial statements continued 3 Segmental reporting continued Segmental analysis of results continued Non-current assets, which comprise intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and other receivables analysed by country, are set out below: 31 August 1 September 2013 2012 m m United Kingdom 1,515.6 1,476.1 Denmark 38.7 33.3 Republic of Ireland 30.3 32.1 Rest of the world 0.8 4.3 Total non-current assets 1,585.4 1,545.8 4 Gross transaction value Revenue from concession and consignment sales is required to be shown on a net basis, being the commission received rather than the gross value achieved on the sale.
Management believes that gross transaction value, which presents revenue on a gross basis before adjusting for concessions, consignments and staff discounts, represents a good guide to the overall activity of the Group.
31 August 1 September 2013 2012 m m Gross transaction value 2,776.8 2,708.0 A reconciliation of gross transaction value to external revenue is included in note 3.
5 Critical accounting estimates and judgements The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial period are discussed below.
Estimated impairment of goodwill The Group tests whether goodwill has suffered any impairment in accordance with the accounting policy stated in note 2.
The recoverable amount of cash-generating units is determined based on a value-in-use calculation.
The method requires an estimate of future cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the net present value of the cash flows.
Actual outcomes could vary: see note 13 for further details.
Estimated useful life of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets At the date of capitalising property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, the Group estimates the useful life of the asset based on managements judgement and experience.
Due to the significance of capital investment to the Group, variances between actual and estimated useful economic lives could impact results both positively and negatively.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value using the retail method and represent goods for resale.
This method intrinsically takes into account any stock loss or markdown to goods sold below cost.
Concession inventories are not included within inventory held by the Group.
Retirement benefits The Groups defined benefit schemes pension liability asset, which is assessed each period by actuaries, are based on key assumptions including return on plan assets, discount rates, mortality rates, inflation, future salary and pension costs.
These assumptions, individually or collectively, may be different to actual outcomes.
Other key assumptions for pension obligations are based in part on current market conditions: additional information relating to this is disclosed in note 23.
