131 Notes to the Company financial statements For the financial year ended 31 August 2013 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis and in accordance with UK GAAP using the historical cost convention as modified by financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards within the United Kingdom and the Companies Act 2006.
The principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently for each financial year unless stated otherwise, are set out below.
Exemptions The directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and have not presented a profit and loss account for the Company alone.
However, the Companys profit and loss account has been produced for approval by the board.
The Company is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures from disclosing related party transactions with entities that are wholly owned subsidiaries.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group include a consolidated cash flow statement which includes the cash flows of the Company.
Investments Investments comprise the Companys investment in subsidiaries and are shown at cost less any provision for impairment.
Impairment testing Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets net realisable value and value-in-use.
Borrowings All borrowings are stated at the fair value of the consideration received after deduction of issue costs.
Issue costs, together with finance costs, are charged to the profit and loss account over the term of the borrowings.
Finance costs represent a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Revenue recognition i Interest income Interest receivable and interest payable are recognised in the period to which they relate using the effective interest method.
ii Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Taxation Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates that are in force during the period.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences are differences between the taxable profits and the results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
A deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates which are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based upon tax rates and laws which have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Dividend distribution A final dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Companys financial statements in the period in which the dividend is approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
