90 Notes to the financial statements For the financial year ended 31 August 2013 1 General information Introduction Debenhams plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 Company No.
The address of the registered office is 10 Brock Street, Regents Place, London NW1 3FG.
The principal activity of the Company is that of a holding company.
The principal activities of the Group and its subsidiaries together the Group or the Debenhams Group is the sale of fashion clothing and accessories, cosmetics and products for use in the home.
The Group trades from department stores in the UK, the Republic of Ireland and Denmark, on the internet and has international franchise stores.
The Group prepares its financial statements for the financial year ending on the nearest Saturday to 31 August of a given calendar year.
The principal companies within the Group during the financial year ended 31 August 2013 are disclosed in note 33.
2 Accounting policies The Groups principal accounting policies, as described below, have been consistently applied to all financial years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS including International Accounting Standards IAS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under accounting standards as adopted for use in the EU.
The consolidated financial statements for the financial years ended 31 August 2013 and 1 September 2012 have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The preparation of the financial statements, in conformity with IFRS, requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reporting amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these results are based on managements best knowledge of the amounts, events or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates see note 5.
Consolidation The financial statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of Debenhams plc and all its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries include all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which the Group has the power to control.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
On consolidation, inter company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of the Company and its subsidiaries have been changed where these have a significant impact on the Groups income statement or balance sheet to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of staff discounts and the cost of loyalty scheme points, and is stated net of value added tax and other sales-related taxes.
Revenue on department store sales of goods and commission on concession and consignment sales is recognised when goods are sold to the customer.
Retail sales are usually in cash or by credit or debit card.
Internet sales are recognised when the goods are despatched to the customer.
Revenue from gift cards and gift vouchers sold by the Group is recognised on the redemption of the gift card or gift voucher.
Revenue from sales to franchisees is recognised when the goods are despatched.
It is the Groups policy to sell its products to the end customer with a right of return.
Accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide for such returns at the time of sale.
Segmental reporting IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires segment information to be presented based on what is reported to the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
The Group has identified the executive committee as its Chief Operating Decision Maker and has identified two operating segments, UK and international.
Interest recognition Finance income and finance costs are recognised in the period to which they relate using the effective interest rate method.
91 Dividend distribution A final dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Companys and Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividend is approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Retirement benefit costs The Group operates various defined benefit and defined contribution or money purchase schemes for its employees.
A defined benefit scheme is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement.
The Group accounts for pensions and other post-employment benefits under IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The pension scheme surplus or deficit recognised in the balance sheet represents the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date.
This surplus or deficit is actuarially calculated on an annual basis using the projected unit credit method.
The income statement charge credit is the net of interest cost on pension scheme liabilities and expected return on plan assets.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
A defined contribution scheme is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions to a separate entity.
Payments to defined contribution pension schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Any contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date are included as an accrual as at that date.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
A fair value for the equity-settled share awards is measured at the date of grant.
The Group measures the fair value of each award using the Black-Scholes model where appropriate.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
Non-market performance and service conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
When the options are exercised, the Company may issue new shares, utilise shares held as treasury shares or those held within the Debenhams Retail Employee Trust.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital at nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
Foreign exchange a Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Groups presentation currency.
b Group companies The results and financial position of all Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet.
Income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transaction.
Resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated as a separate component of equity.
Gains or losses on intra group loans regarded as permanent are transferred to other comprehensive income and offset gains or losses on translation of the net investments that are recorded in equity.
92 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Foreign exchange continued c Transactions and balances Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currency at the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at the balance sheet date exchange rate, of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the closing rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets such as equities classified as available-for-sale are included in other comprehensive income and accumulated as a separate component of equity.
Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to borrowings, cash and cash equivalents and the translation of inter company loans are presented in the income statement within finance income or costs with the exception of permanent intra group loans which are reclassified to other comprehensive income.
All other foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in the income statement within cost of sales.
Taxation Taxation expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Tax which relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or equity is recognised in other comprehensive income or equity respectively.
Current tax is based on taxable profits for the financial period using tax rates that are in force during the period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other financial years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
If deferred tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversals of the temporary differences is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Leased assets a Finance leases Leases of assets which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are classified as a financial liability and measured at amortised cost.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the asset or the present value of the minimum lease payments and depreciated over the shorter of the useful economic life or the period of the lease.
The resulting lease obligations are included in liabilities.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance costs and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
b Operating leases All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases, net of lease incentives, are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Where property lease contracts contain guaranteed fixed minimum incremental rental payments, the total committed cost is determined and is calculated and amortised on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
93 Business combinations The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the consideration given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
All costs directly attributable to an acquisition are expensed to the income statement.
Identifiable assets and liabilities acquired in a subsidiary are initially measured at their fair values at the acquisition date, provided they meet the conditions set out in IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations.
The excess of cost over the Groups share of identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
If, after reassessment, the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of assets acquired, the excess is immediately recognised in the income statement.
Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary.
Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill is not amortised but tested for impairment annually, or when trigger events occur, and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill represents the goodwill for a portfolio of sites, which have been allocated to groups of cash-generating units on a regional basis for the purpose of impairment testing.
b Other intangible assets Other intangible assets are held at cost less accumulated amortisation and any provision for impairment.
Internally generated software costs, where it is clear that the software developed is technically feasible and will be completed and that the software generated will generate economic benefit, are capitalised as an intangible asset.
Included within intangible assets are assets in the course of construction.
These assets comprise primarily web development projects including directly attributable costs to bring the assets into use and may include capitalised borrowing costs.
Amortisation is provided at the following rates per annum to write off the costs of other intangible assets, less residual value, on a straight line basis from the date on which they are brought into use: Acquired licences and trademarks Up to 10% Internally generated software 12.5% to 33.3% Purchased software 12.5% to 33.3% Impairment testing Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped by store, which is the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that have been impaired are reviewed at each reporting date for possible reversal of the impairment.
94 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are held at historic purchase cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
This may include capitalised borrowing costs.
Depreciation is provided at the following rates per annum to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less residual value, on a straight line basis from the date on which they are brought into use: Freehold land Not depreciated Freehold buildings 1% Long leasehold land and buildings including landlords fixtures and fittings 1% or life of lease if shorter Short leasehold land and buildings including landlords fixtures and fittings Life of lease Retail fixtures and fittings 4% to 25% Office equipment 10% to 12.5% Computer equipment 10% to 33.3% Vehicles 25% or life of lease Gains and losses on disposal are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount.
These are included in the income statement.
Included within property, plant and equipment are assets in the course of construction.
These assets comprise stores which are under construction or modernisation, including costs directly attributable to bring the asset into use.
Transfers to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment are made when the store opens.
No depreciation is provided on stores or other assets under construction.
Impairment testing Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to depreciation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Capitalisation of finance costs Finance costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of qualifying assets are capitalised to the cost of the asset, gross of tax relief.
Qualifying assets are those that necessarily take a substantial period of time to prepare for their intended use.
Available-for-sale investments Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade-date, being the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
The Group classifies its investments as available-for-sale financial assets in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Available-for-sale financial investments are non-derivative assets that are either designated in this category or are not classified in the other financial instrument categories being Fair value through the profit or loss or Loans and receivables.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus any transaction costs and subsequently at fair value.
The fair values of quoted investments are based on current bid prices.
If the market for a financial asset is not active and for unlisted securities, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques.
These include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models, making maximum use of market inputs and relying as little as possible on entity-specific inputs.
The fair value of available-for-sale investments denominated in a foreign currency is calculated in that foreign currency and translated at the spot rate at the reporting date.
Changes in the fair value of securities classified as available for sale are recognised in other comprehensive income.
An impairment test is performed annually on the carrying value of each investment.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
95 Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value using the retail method and represent goods for resale.
Cost includes all direct expenditure and other attributable costs incurred in bringing inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
This method intrinsically takes into account any stock loss or markdown to goods sold below cost.
Concession inventories are not included within inventory held by the Group.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently held at amortised cost less provisions for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate.
The movement in the provision is recognised in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at the bank and other short-term liquid investments with original maturities of approximately three months or less.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs that are facility costs are recognised initially at fair value and are amortised over the term of the facilities using the effective interest rate on the committed amount of each facility.
Debt repurchase The nominal value of debt repurchased has been accounted for as a loan redemption, reducing net borrowings at the balance sheet date.
Trade payables Trade payables, defined as financial liabilities in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments, are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
All of the trade payables are non-interest bearing.
Other payables Included within other payables are lease incentives received from landlords either through developers contributions or rent-free periods.
These incentives are being credited to the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and where it is more likely than not an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at managements best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
96 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares in equity are shown as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where the Company purchases its own ordinary shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such ordinary shares are subsequently reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs together with the related income tax effects, are included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
Derivatives Derivatives comprise interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as an effective hedging instrument and the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of highly probable forecast transactions cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the transaction, the Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at the inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of hedged items.
i Cash flow hedges The effective portion of the changes in fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the relevant line of the income statement which will be affected by the underlying hedged item.
Forward exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges are fide-designated and subsequently classified as held for trading when the underlying forecast transaction is recognised in the financial statements.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified and adjusted against the initial measurement of the underlying hedged item when the underlying hedged item is recognised on the balance sheet or in the income statement.
When a hedged instrument expires, is sold or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, hedge accounting is discontinued.
Any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time is held in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
When a forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately reclassified to the relevant line of the income statement which would have been affected by the forecasted transaction.
ii Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Certain derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Changes in fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement within finance costs.
New standards and interpretations New or revised standards or interpretations which were mandatory for the first time in the financial year beginning 2 September 2012 did not have a material impact on the net assets or results of the Group.
IAS 1 amended Financial Statement Presentation regarding other comprehensive income is effective from periods that commenced on or after 1 July 2012.
The amendments do not address which items are presented in other comprehensive income OCI, but require entities to group items presented in OCI on the basis of whether they are or can be reclassified to the Group income statement subsequently reclassification adjustments.
Standards and interpretations in issue, but not yet effective, are not expected to have a material effect on the Groups net assets or results, except for IAS 19 revised.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits has been revised and was endorsed by the EU in June 2012.
It is effective from periods that commenced on or after 1 January 2013.
The directors anticipate that the adoption of IAS 19 revised in the financial year that started 1 September 2013 would result in an increase in the pension charge of approximately 13.3 million in the year ending 30 August 2014 with a corresponding increase in net actuarial gains on pension schemes before tax.
