131 Notes to the Company financial statements For the financial year ended 31 August 2013 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis and in accordance with UK GAAP using the historical cost convention as modified by financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards within the United Kingdom and the Companies Act 2006.
The principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently for each financial year unless stated otherwise, are set out below.
Exemptions The directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and have not presented a profit and loss account for the Company alone.
However, the Companys profit and loss account has been produced for approval by the board.
The Company is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures from disclosing related party transactions with entities that are wholly owned subsidiaries.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group include a consolidated cash flow statement which includes the cash flows of the Company.
Investments Investments comprise the Companys investment in subsidiaries and are shown at cost less any provision for impairment.
Impairment testing Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets net realisable value and value-in-use.
Borrowings All borrowings are stated at the fair value of the consideration received after deduction of issue costs.
Issue costs, together with finance costs, are charged to the profit and loss account over the term of the borrowings.
Finance costs represent a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Revenue recognition i Interest income Interest receivable and interest payable are recognised in the period to which they relate using the effective interest method.
ii Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Taxation Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates that are in force during the period.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences are differences between the taxable profits and the results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
A deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates which are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based upon tax rates and laws which have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Dividend distribution A final dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Companys financial statements in the period in which the dividend is approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
132 Notes to the Company financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Share-based payments The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
A fair value for the equity-settled share awards is measured at the date of grant.
The Company measures the fair value of each award using the Black-Scholes model where appropriate.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Companys estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
Non-market performance and service conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the profit and loss account, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
When the options are exercised, the Company may issue new shares or utilise shares held as treasury shares or within the Debenhams Retail Employee Trust.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital at nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
Where the Company has granted options over the Companys shares to employees of its subsidiaries, a capital contribution has been deemed made by the Company.
This is then recharged to the subsidiary and is based on the fair value of the options issued spread over the options vesting period.
Foreign exchange Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currency at the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the closing rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Derivatives The derivative instruments used by the Company to manage its interest rate risk are interest rate swaps.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as an effective hedging instrument and the nature of the item being hedged.
The Company designates certain derivatives as hedges of highly probable forecast transactions cash flow hedges.
The Company documents, at the inception of the transaction, the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Company also documents its assessment, both at the inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of hedged items.
i Cash flow hedges The effective portion of the changes in fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the relevant line of the profit and loss account which will be affected by the underlying hedged item.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified and adjusted against the initial measurement of the underlying hedged item when the underlying hedged item is recognised on the balance sheet or in the profit and loss account.
When a hedged instrument expires, is sold or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, hedge accounting is discontinued.
Any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time is held in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
When a forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately reclassified to the relevant line of the profit and loss account which would have been affected by the forecasted transaction.
ii Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Certain derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Changes in fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where the Company purchases its own ordinary shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such ordinary shares are subsequently reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs together with the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
