Strategic Report Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information 157 www.
com Stock code: DPH Glossary The following is a glossary of a number of the terms and Executive Directors acronyms which can be found within this document.
The Executive Directors of the Company, currently Ian Page, Anne-Francoise Nesmes, Ed Torr and Tony Griffin API Active Principal Ingredient FAP Food animal producing products Bio equivalence The demonstration that the proposed formulation has the same FDA biological effects as the pioneer product to which it is being US Food and Drug Administration: a federal agency of the US compared.
This is usually demonstrated by comparing blood Department of Health and Human Services.
concentrations of the active over time, but can be compared using a clinical endpoint e. g. lowering of a worm count for FRS drugs that are not absorbed or for which blood levels cannot be Financial Reporting Standards determined.
FTSE250 350 Index CAP An index comprising of the 101st to 350th largest companies Companion animal products listed on the London Stock Exchange in terms of their market capitalisation CE Continuing Education FTSE Small Cap Index An index comprising of the 351st to 619th largest listed CMC companies on the London Stock Exchange in terms of their The Chemistry and Manufacturing Controls market capitalisation Cortisol Hyperthyroidism A hormone which is made by the adrenal glands.
Its production Occurs when the thyroid glands produce excessive amounts is increased during episodes of stress and it has many effects of thyroid hormone.
This causes an increase in the animals on the body.
It helps regulate blood pressure, the immune metabolism the rate at which energy is utilised.
system and helps balance the effect of insulin to keep the blood sugar at normal levels.
IAS International Accounting Standards Cushings Syndrome A condition caused by excess cortisol see above and is named IFRS after the physician who first described the condition in humans International Financial Reporting Standards in the early twentieth century.
Intertrigo Dechra Values or Values Refers to a bacterial, fungal or viral infection that has developed Dedication, Enjoyment, Courage, Honesty, Relationships and at the site of broken skin due to inflammation of body folds.
This Ambition infection is common in dogs with folds, such as Pugs or Shar Peis.
DPM LIBOR Dechra Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing The London inter-bank offered rate DVP EU Malassezia Dechra Veterinary Products EU Yeasts that cause a secondary inflammatory skin disease.
Malassezia is often found in otitis externa.
DVP US Dechra Veterinary Products US MHRA Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency: an EBITDA executive agency of the Department of Health.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
MRL Euthyroid Maximum residue level Euthyroid is the state of having normal thyroid gland function.
NADA New Animal Drug Application 22581.04 10 September 2013 1:31 PM Proof 3 158 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013 Shareholder Information Glossary continued Non-Executive Directors RIDDOR The Non-executive Directors of the Company, currently Michael Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Redmond, Neil Warner, Dr Chris Richards, Julian Heslop and Regulations Ishbel Macpherson Rights Issue NSAID The three for ten rights issue of 20,040,653 shares, details of Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drug: essentially drugs which which are set out in the prospectus of the Company dated 25 relieve pain, swelling, stiffness and inflammation.
Equipalazone April 2012. is the leading NSAID for the treatment of musculoskeletal disorders in the horse.
SAYE Save as You Earn Share Scheme Ordinary Shares An ordinary share of 1 pence in the share capital of the Shareholder Company Holder of ordinary shares in Dechra Otitis Externa Staphylococcal Infections A condition which causes inflammation of the external ear canal Communicable conditions caused by the Staphylococcus type the tube between the outer ear and the ear drum.
of bacteria and generally characterised by pyoderma or the formation of abscesses.
PDRA Dechras Product Development and Regulatory Affairs team Surface Pyoderma Pyoderma is the medical term used to denote infections of Product Pipeline the skin caused by bacteria.
Surface Pyoderma is a bacterial This involves four stages which are as follows: infection which is confined to the surface of the skin: one of the commonest types is known as Pyotraumatic Dermatitis acute Manufacturing the part of the dossier which documents moist dermatitis, or hot spots.
It is typified by localised itching, the quality, purity and physical characteristics of both the moist reddened skin patches and ulcerated lesions.
active ingredient and the final formulation e. g. tablets, capsules, liquid.
VCA Veterinary Centres of America Safety the part of the dossier which documents the effects of the final formulation at above normal dosage levels in the intended species.
Efficacy the part of the dossier which documents the effectiveness of the final formulation in the intended species.
The studies may be controlled model studies or studies in animals with the naturally occurring disease.
Regulatory the period of time that regulatory agencies take to review the various sections of the dossier.
