94 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013 Our Governance Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors Responsibility Statement Required under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules We confirm to the best of our knowledge: 1 The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and 2 The management report, which comprises the Directors Report and the Directors Strategic Report and Operating Review, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Ian Page Anne-Francoise Nesmes Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 3 September 2013 3 September 2013 22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 Strategic Report Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information 95 www.
com Stock code: DPH Financials Contents Independent Auditors Report 96 Company Balance Sheet 147 Consolidated Income Statement 98 Reconciliation of Movements Consolidated Statement in Shareholders Funds 148 of Comprehensive Income 99 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 149 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 100 i Principal Accounting Policies Consolidated Statement of Changes of the Company 149 in Shareholders Equity 101 ii Directors and Employees 151 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 102 iii Fixed Asset Investments 151 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 103 iv Intangible Assets 152 1.
Non-underlying Items 115 ix Deferred Tax 154 6.
Profit Before Taxation 116 x Called up Share Capital 154 7.
Income Tax Expense 118 xii Subsidiary Undertakings 155 9.
Financial Instruments and Related Disclosures 130 23.
Events after the Reporting Period 146 22581.04 10 September 2013 1:31 PM Proof 3
