Strategic Report Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information 159 www.
com Stock code: DPH Shareholder Information Financial Calendar Alternatively Computershare can be contacted at: Interim Management Statement 17 October 2013 2013 Annual General Meeting 17 October 2013 Computershare Investor Services PLC Final Dividend Ex Div Date 6 November 2013 The Pavilions Final Dividend Record Date 8 November 2013 Bridgwater Road Final Dividend Payment Date 22 November 2013 Bristol BS99 6ZZ Annual General Meeting The 2013 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be Registrars Shareholder Helpline for Dechra : 0870 889 4030. held at 4.00 pm on 17 October 2013 at the offices of the Company at 24 Cheshire Avenue, Cheshire Business Park, Please have your Shareholder Reference Number to hand Lostock Gralam, Northwich CW9 7UA.
The notice of meeting, whenever you contact the Registrar: this can be found on your which includes special business to be transacted at the Annual share certificate.
General Meeting, is included within the Circular accompanying this Annual Report, together with an explanation of the Share Dealing Service resolutions to be considered at the meeting.
Computershare offer a Share Dealing Service, to buy or sell shares.
Further information can be obtained from Company Website www-uk.
com sharedealingcentre or by The Dechra website www.
com is the best source of telephoning 0870 703 0084. useful and up-to-date information about Dechra and its activities, Telephone Internet including the latest news, financial and product information to help share share improve understanding of our business.
Additionally, the terms dealing dealing of reference of all our Committees, Articles of Association, our Fee on value of transaction 1% 0.5% Values and a number of our internal policies are published on the Minimum charge 25.00 15.00 website.
Stamp duty charge purchases only 0.5% 0.5% Computershare Investor Services PLC and its agents are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Please note that the price of shares can go down as well as up, and you are not guaranteed to get back the original amount you originally invested.
If you are in any doubt you should contact an independent financial adviser.
Visit us at our website Warning to Shareholders www.
com Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue and offered shares that often turn out to be worthless Registrar or non-existent, or an inflated price for shares they own.
During Dechras Registrar is Computershare Investor Services PLC.
the year we were alerted by some of our Shareholders to cold calls which they had received.
The callers purport to represent Computershare should be contacted for any matters relating to various entities, including Drexel-Bearns, a US based firm.
The your shareholding, including: callers stated that they were seeking to gain control of investor shareholdings held in the Company and or personal financial Notification of change in name and address information.
We believe these to be boiler room scams.
Enquiries about dividend payments These types of calls are typically from overseas based brokers Submission of proxy form for voting at the Annual General who target UK shareholders and are commonly referred to Meeting as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and Computershare offers a facility whereby shareholders are able to extremely persuasive.
While high profits are promised, those access their shareholdings in Dechra and other companies for who buy or sell shares in this way usually lose their money.
which Computershare acts as Registrar via their website www.
