I 2 3 4 Shareholder Information EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE AGM NOTICE EXPLANATORY NOTES 1.
Appointment of proxies A member of the Company is entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of his her rights to attend, speak and vote at a general meeting of the Company.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend the meeting in person.
Members may register their appointment of a proxy either electronically or by returning the hard copy proxy form where supplied in accordance with the instructions set out below.
To be valid, the instrument appointing a proxy, together with the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which it is signed or a copy of such power or authority, certified by a notary must be deposited at the office of the Companys registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZY, not later than 11:00am on 28 April 2014.
Completion and return of a form of proxy will not preclude shareholders from attending or voting in person at the AGM, if they wish to do so.
Shareholders can also register their appointment of a proxy to attend the AGM electronically via the internet by visiting https: www.
com where full instructions are given.
A proxy appointment made electronically will not be valid if sent to any address other than that provided or, if received after 11:00am on 28 April 2014 or, if the meeting is adjourned, if received less than 48 hours excluding any part of a day which is a non-working day before the time of the adjourned meeting.
Please note that any electronic communication found to contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the AGM and any adjournment s of it by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual available via www.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with specifications of Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited EUI and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message must be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID number 3RA50 no later than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the AGM.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that EUI does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider take such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Nominated persons Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the registered shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the registered shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in section 1 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in that section can only be exercised by registered shareholders of the Company.
Corporate representatives Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of the same powers as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member provided they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
128 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 4.
Entitlement to attend and vote To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, shareholders must be registered in the register of members of the Company at 6:00 pm on 28 April 2014 or, in the event of any adjournment, not less than 48 hours excluding any part of a day that is not a working day before the time of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the register of members of the Company after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
Poll vote All resolutions at the AGM will be taken on a poll rather than on a show of hands, so as to reflect accurately the view of all of the Companys shareholders by ensuring that every vote is recognised, including the votes of shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM but who have appointed a proxy.
On a poll, each shareholder has one vote for each share held.
Website publication of audit concerns Under section 527 of the Act, members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors Report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the meeting.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with section 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys Auditors not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
Shareholders right to ask questions Any member of the Company attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Documents available for inspection Copies of all service contracts of the Executive Directors: and all appointment letters of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office, Gartferry Road, Moodiesburn, Chryston, G69 0JE and at the offices of Clifford Chance LLP, 10 Upper Bank Street, London E14 5JJ during usual business hours.
They will also be available at the place of the AGM from 10.45 am until the close of the meeting.
Issued share capital and total voting rights At 7 March 2014 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this notice the issued share capital of the Company consists of 166,779,230 Ordinary Shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 7 March 2014 are 166,779,230.
Electronic publication A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Act, can be found at www.
Resolutions Resolution 1: Accounts and Reports of the Directors and of the Auditors The Directors of the Company have a duty to present to shareholders in general meeting the annual accounts together with the Directors Report, the Strategic Report and the Report of the Auditors.
The Auditors Report can be found on pages 119 to 123 of this Annual Report.
Resolution 2: Final dividend The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 6.1 pence per share be paid on 16 May 2014 to shareholders whose names appear on the register of members at the close of business on 28 March 2014.
Payment of the final dividend will bring the total dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 to 8.8 pence per share.
Resolutions 3 to 9: Election and re-election of Directors In line with best practice on corporate governance, each Director of the Company wishing to remain a Director is subject to election or re-election by shareholders at each AGM.
Gerard Hoetmer has been appointed a Non-Executive Director of the Company since last years AGM and will, therefore, stand for election to the Board for the first time at this AGM.
All of the other current Directors are standing for re-election to the Board.
All of their biographies are set out on pages 38 and 39 of this Annual Report.
Resolutions 10 and 11: Reappointment and remuneration of the Companys Auditors These are standard resolutions proposing the reappointment of  LLP as the Companys Auditors and authorising the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 129 I 2 3 4 Shareholder Information EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE AGM NOTICE continued Resolution 12: Remuneration Report Shareholders will be invited to approve the Remuneration Report set out on pages 50 to 63 other than the part containing the Directors Remuneration Policy for the year ended 31 December 2013.
In line with legislation, this vote will be advisory in nature and it will not be specific to individual levels of remuneration.
Resolution 13: Remuneration Policy Shareholders will be invited to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy which is set out in full on pages 52 to 56.
This reflects a new statutory requirement to seek shareholders approval at least every three years or sooner, in the event of a change in the Policy.
On the approval of this resolution, the Directors Remuneration Policy will take effect immediately.
The Company will not be able to make a remuneration payment to a current or prospective Director or a payment for loss of office to a current or past Director, unless that payment is consistent with the Policy or has been approved by a resolution of the members of the Company.
Resolution 14: Allotment of new shares This resolution is to renew, for a further year, the general authority to allot shares given to the Directors at the Companys last AGM, held on 18 April 2013.
Paragraph a of the resolution will give the Directors a general authority to allot up to 55,000,000 Ordinary Shares, representing approximately one-third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding any shares held in treasury as at 7 March 2014, which is the latest practicable date before publication of this notice.
The Company did not hold any of its own shares as treasury shares as at 7 March 2014.
Paragraph b of the resolution proposes that a further authority be conferred on the Directors to allot unissued shares or rights to subscribe for shares in favour of holders of equity securities which would include ordinary shareholders as required by the rights of those securities or as the Directors may otherwise consider necessary, up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 11,000,000 such amount to be reduced by the nominal amount of any shares or rights to subscribe for shares issued under the authority conferred by paragraph a of this resolution.
This, the section 551 amount, represents an amount which is approximately two thirds of the aggregate nominal value of the issued and unconditionally allotted ordinary share capital of the Company as at 7 March 2014.
This resolution complies with the current guidelines, first issued by the Association of British Insurers ABI in November 2009, and, if the Directors do exercise the authority conferred by paragraph b of this resolution, they intend to follow best practice as regards its use.
The Companys practice of requiring each Director of the Company wishing to remain a Director to stand for election or re-election by shareholders at each AGM would already satisfy the ABIs recommendation that Directors stand for re-election at the next AGM following any decision to exercise the authorities sought under this resolution.
Other than in relation to the Companys employee share plans, the Directors have no present intention to use these authorities, which will expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company and 30 June 2015.
As is normal practice, the Directors intend to seek renewal of these authorities at subsequent AGMs.
Resolution 15: Pre-emption rights This resolution, which will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks to renew the authority conferred on the Directors at the last AGM to issue equity securities of the Company for cash without application of the pre-emption rights as provided by section 561 of the Act.
The authorities being sought provide for non-pre-emptive allotments of equity securities a to ordinary shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings: b to holders of other equity securities as required by, or subject to as the Directors consider necessary, the rights of those securities, and to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements and legal and practical problems in any territory, for example on a rights issue or other similar share issue: and c for cash up to an aggregate nominal value of 833,000 which represents slightly less than 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 7 March 2014, which is the latest practicable date before publication of this notice.
This authority will expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company and 30 June 2015.
The authorities sought and the limits set by the resolution will also disapply the application of section 561 of the Act from a sale of treasury shares to the extent also specified in this resolution.
In accordance with the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles, the Board confirms its intention that no more than 7.5% of the issued share capital will be issued for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis during any rolling three-year period.
130 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Resolution 16: Authority for market purchases by the Company of its own shares The authority for the Company to purchase its own Ordinary Shares granted at last years AGM will expire on the date of the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors wish to renew this authority and a special resolution will be proposed to give the Company the authority to purchase its own Ordinary Shares in the market as permitted by the Act.
The authority limits the number of shares that could be purchased to a maximum of 16,600,000 representing less than 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 7 March 2014, which is the latest practicable date before publication of this notice and sets minimum and maximum prices.
Although the Directors have no present intention of exercising the authority to purchase the Companys Ordinary Shares, they consider that it is in the best interests of the Company to have available this authorisation, in case of circumstances when it would be appropriate to use it.
They would only use it when satisfied that this would result in an increase in earnings per share and was in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Any Ordinary Shares purchased pursuant to this authority may either be held as treasury shares or cancelled by the Company, depending on which course of action is considered by the Directors to be in the best interests of shareholders at the time.
As at 7 March 2014, there were share scheme award options over 1,189,108 Ordinary Shares in the capital of the Company, which represents 0.7% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
If the authority to purchase the Companys Ordinary Shares were exercised in full, these options would represent 0.8% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
As at 7 March 2014, the Company did not hold any treasury shares in the Company and no warrants over Ordinary Shares in the capital of the Company existed.
Resolution 17: General Meeting Notice Changes made to the Act by the Shareholders Rights Regulations increased the notice period required for general meetings of the Company from 14 clear days to 21 days, unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days, and certain requirements are satisfied.
In accordance with the Act, AGMs will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
At the last AGM, the shareholders approved a notice period of not less than 14 clear days other than for AGMs effective until the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors believe it is in the best interests of shareholders to preserve this ability and this resolution, which will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks such approval.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
It is intended that this flexibility will only be used for non-routine business and where merited in the interests of shareholders generally.
It should also be noted that in order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear days notice, the Company must make a means of electronic voting available to all shareholders for that meeting.
This condition is met if there is a facility to appoint a proxy by means of a website.
Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 131
