I 2 3 4 Shareholder Information NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the twenty-third Annual General Meeting AGM of Devro plc the Company will be held at Glasgow City Halls, Candleriggs, Glasgow, G1 1NQ on 30 April 2014 at 11:00am.
THIS NOTICE IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own financial advice from your stockbroker or other independent adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or transferred all of your shares in the Company, please forward this notice, together with the accompanying documents, as soon as possible either to the purchaser or transferee or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
Shareholders will be asked to consider and, if thought fit, pass at the AGM the resolutions below.
Resolutions 1 to 14 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 15, 16 and 17 will be proposed as special resolutions.
Recommendation The directors of the Company Directors consider that all the proposals to be considered at the AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its members as a whole and are most likely to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its members as a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of all the proposed resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
T o receive the Companys accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013, together with the Directors Report, the Strategic Report and the Auditors Report on those accounts.
To declare a final dividend of 6.1 pence per share for the year ended 31 December 2013.
To re-elect as a Director Mr Steve Hannam.
To re-elect as a Director Mr Peter Page.
To re-elect as a Director Mr Simon Webb.
To re-elect as a Director Ms Jane Lodge.
To re-elect as a Director Mr Paul Neep.
To re-elect as a Director Mr Paul Withers.
To elect as a Director Mr Gerard Hoetmer.
T o re-appoint  LLP as the Companys Auditors to hold office until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Companys Auditors.
T HAT the Remuneration Report contained within the Companys Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013, excluding the Directors Remuneration Policy set out on pages 52 to 56 of the Remuneration Report, be and is hereby approved.
T HAT the Directors Remuneration Policy, set out on pages 52 to 56 of the Remuneration Report, be and is hereby approved to take effect immediately after the end of the AGM.
T HAT, in substitution for all existing authorities, the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with article 4 of the Companys articles of association and with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to: a. a llot shares as defined in section 540 of the Act in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5,500,000: and b. a llot equity securities as defined in section 560 of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 11,000,000 such amount to be reduced by the aggregate nominal amount of shares allotted or rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company granted under paragraph a of this resolution 14 in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue: i. to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and ii.
t o holders of other equity securities as defined in section 560 1 of the Act as required by the rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the Directors otherwise consider necessary, and so that the Directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter, 126 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 s uch authorities to apply unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting until the end of the Companys next AGM after this resolution is passed or, if earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 2015 but, in each case, so that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements before the authority expires which would, or might, require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares to be granted after the authority expires and the Directors may allot shares or grant such rights under any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
T HAT, in substitution for all existing powers and subject to the passing of resolution 14, the Directors be generally empowered pursuant to section 570 of the Act to allot equity securities as defined in section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority granted by resolution 14 and or where the allotment constitutes an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 560 3 of the Act, in each case free of the restriction in section 561 of the Act, such power to be limited: a. t o the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of equity securities but in the case of an allotment pursuant to the authority granted by paragraph b of resolution 14, such power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue only : i. to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and ii.
t o holders of other equity securities as defined in section 560 1 of the Act, as required by the rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the Directors otherwise consider necessary, and so that the Directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and b. t o the allotment of equity securities pursuant to the authority granted by paragraph a of resolution 14 and or an allotment which constitutes an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 560 3 of the Act in each case otherwise than in the circumstances set out in paragraph a of this resolution 15 up to a nominal amount of 833,000, s uch power to apply unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting until the end of the Companys next AGM after this resolution is passed or, if earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 2015 but so that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements before the power expires which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted after the power expires and the Directors may allot equity securities under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not expired.
T HAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 701 of the Act to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act on the London Stock Exchange of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares provided that: the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 16,600,000 representing less than 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 7 March 2014 which is the latest practicable date before publication of this notice : the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 10 pence, being the par value: the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is an amount equal to not more than 5% above the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which that Ordinary Share is purchased: unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting, the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the end of the Companys next AGM after this resolution is passed or, if earlier, at the close of business on 30 June 2015 : and the Company may make a contract or contracts to purchase Ordinary Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts.
T HAT a general meeting of the Company, other than an AGM of the Company, may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice, provided that this authority expires at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company after the date of passing this resolution.
By order of the Board John Meredith, Company Secretary Devro plc 18 March 2014 Registered Office: Moodiesburn, Chryston, G69 0JE Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 127
