GRI Index This index provides an overview of our reporting against the GRI G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.
Our self-assessment of our Sustainability & Responsibility Report indicates that we are a [B ]reporter.
STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile disclosures Description Reported Cross-reference direct answer 1.
Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the Fully Chief executives introduction page 2 organisation.
1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities.
Fully Our approach and performance page 12 2.
Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation.
Fully Diageo plc 2.2 Primary brands, products, and or services.
Fully Our brands page 8 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including Fully Diageo at a glance page 6 main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures.
Fully Lakeside Drive Park Royal London NW10 7HQ 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, Fully Diageo at a glance page 6 and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report.
2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form.
Fully Full name: Diageo plc Registered number: 23307 Registered office: Lakeside Drive, London NW10 7HQ Place of registration: England and Wales 2.7 Markets served including geographic breakdown, sectors Fully Diageo at a glance page 6 served, and types of customers beneficiaries.
2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation.
Fully Diageo at a glance page 6 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding Fully Scope and boundaries page 81 size, structure, or ownership.
2.10 Awards received in the reporting period.
Fully Performance and key metrics page 17 3.
Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period e. g. fiscal calendar year for information Fully Scope and boundaries page 81 provided.
3.2 Date of most recent previous report if any.
Fully August 2012 3.3 Reporting cycle annual, biennial, etc.
Fully Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its Fully About this report and GRI page 80 contents.
3.5 Process for defining report content.
Fully About this report and GRI page 80 3.6 Boundary of the report e. g. countries, divisions, Fully Scope and boundaries page 81 subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers.
See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance.
3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary Fully Scope and boundaries page 81 of the report see completeness principle for explanation of scope.
3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased Fully Scope and boundaries page 81 facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and or between organisations.
92 Diageo Sustainability & Responsibility Report 2013 About our business Approach and performance Impacts About this report and GRI Description Reported Cross-reference direct answer 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of Fully Reporting methodologies page 84 calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report.
Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols.
3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of Fully Reporting methodologies page 84 information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement e. g. mergers acquisitions, change of base years periods, nature of business, measurement methods.
3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in Fully Scope and boundaries page 81 the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied Reporting methodologies page 84 in the report.
3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures Fully GRI index page 92 in the report.
3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external Fully Assurance page 88 assurance for the report.
Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including Fully See Diageos 2013 Annual Report Corporate governance report committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight.
4.2 Indicate whether the chair of the highest governance Fully The chairman of the board is not counted as a non-executive body is also an executive officer.
director and is not independent by virtue of being the chairman, in accordance with section A31 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, Fully See Diageos 2013 Annual Report Corporate governance report state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and or nonexecutive members.
4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to Fully See Diageos 2013 Annual Report Relations with Stakeholders, provide recommendations or direction to the highest Corporate governance report governance body.
4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of Fully See Diageos 2013 Annual Report Performance Evaluation, the highest governance body, senior managers, and Corporate governance report executives including departure arrangements, and the organisations performance including social and environmental performance.
4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to Fully See Diageos 2013 Annual Report Activities of the board, ensure conflicts of interest are avoided.
Corporate governance report 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, Fully See Diageos 2013 Annual Report Performance evaluation and expertise of the members of the highest governance and Activities of the nomination committee, Corporate body and its committees, including any consideration of governance report gender and other indicators of diversity.
4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, Fully About our business page 4 codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, Codes and policies page 67 environmental, and social performance and the status Compliance and ethics programme page 69 of their implementation.
4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for Fully How we manage sustainability and responsibility page 16. overseeing the organisations identification and Seealso Diageos 2013 Annual Report Executive director and management of economic, environmental, and social control within the Corporate governance report performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles.
4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance bodys Fully See Diageos 2013 Annual Report Performance evaluation, own performance, particularly with respect to economic, Corporate governance report environmental, and social performance.
4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary Fully See Diageos 2013 Annual Report Sustainability & Responsibility approach or principle is addressed by the organisation.
4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and Fully Membership of codes and charters page 15 social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses.
4.13 Memberships in associations such as industry Fully Membership of industry bodies page 28 associations and or national international advocacy Responsible sourcing page 76 organisations in which the organisation: Has positions Sustainable agricultural partnerships page 77 in governance bodies: Participates in projects or committees: Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues: or Views membership as strategic.
4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation.
Fully Sustainability & Responsibility Strategy page 13 Engaging stakeholders page 15 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with Fully Sustainability & Responsibility Strategy page 13 whom to engage.
Engaging stakeholders page 15 About this report and GRI 93 Description Reported Cross-reference direct answer 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including Fully Engaging stakeholders page 15 frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group.
4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through Fully Sustainability & Responsibility Strategy page 13 stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting.
STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on management approach DMAs Description Reported Cross-reference direct answer G3 DMA DMA EC Disclosure on management approach EC Aspects Economic performance Fully Local wealth creation page 48 Market presence Fully Sustainability & Responsibility Strategy page 13 See Diageos 2013 Annual Report Business description Indirect economic impacts Fully Local wealth creation page 48 DMA EN Disclosure on management approach EN Aspects Materials Fully See Diageos Environmental Policy Energy Fully Carbon page 36 Water Fully Water page 33 Biodiversity Fully The wider environment page 41 Emissions, effluents and waste Fully Carbon page 36 Waste page 38 Products and services Fully See Diageos Environment Policy Compliance Fully Governance and ethics page 65 Transport Fully Carbon page 36 Overall Fully See Diageos Environment Policy DMA LA Disclosure on management approach LA Aspects Employment Fully See Diageos Human Rights and Anti-Discrimination Policy Labour management relations Fully See Diageos Human Rights and Anti-Discrimination Policy Occupational health and safety Fully See Diageos Occupational Health and Safety Policy Training and education Fully See Diageos Human Rights and Anti-Discrimination Policy Diversity and equal opportunity Fully See Diageos Human Rights and Anti-Discrimination Policy Equal remuneration for women and men Not disclosed DMA HR Disclosure on management approach HR Aspects Investment and procurement practices Fully See Diageos Partnering with Suppliers standard Non-discrimination Fully See Diageos Human Rights and Anti-Discrimination Policy Freedom of association and collective bargaining Fully See Diageos Human Rights and Anti-Discrimination Policy Child labour Fully See Diageos Human Rights and Anti-Discrimination Policy Prevention of forced and compulsory labour Fully See Diageos Human Rights and Anti-Discrimination Policy Security practices Fully See Diageos Code of Business Conduct Indigenous rights Not material Assessment Fully See Diageos Code of Business Conduct Remediation Fully See Diageos Code of Business Conduct DMA SO Disclosure on management approach SO Aspects Local communities Fully See Diageos Code of Business Conduct Corruption Fully See Diageos Code of Business Conduct Public policy Fully See Diageos Code of Business Conduct Anti-competitive behaviour Fully See Diageos Code of Business Conduct Compliance Fully See Diageos Code of Business Conduct DMA PR Disclosure on management approach PR Aspects Customer health and safety Fully See Diageos Marketing Code Tackling alcohol misuse page 24 Food safety and quality page 78 See Diageos Quality Policy Product and service labelling Fully See Diageos Marketing Code Making information available to consumers page 23 Food safety and quality page 78 Marketing communications Fully See Diageos Marketing Code Communicating about alcohol responsibly page 22 Customer privacy Fully See Diageos Code of Business Conduct Compliance Fully See Diageos Code of Business Conduct 94 Diageo Sustainability & Responsibility Report 2013 About our business Approach and performance Impacts About this report and GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance indicators Description Reported Cross-reference direct answer Economic Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, Fully Diageo at a glance page 6 including revenues, operating costs, employee Local wealth creation page 48 compensation, donations and other community Community investment page 50 investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments.
EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Fully The business case risks and opportunities page 14 for the organisations activities due to climate change.
Carbon page 36 EC3 Coverage of the organisations defined benefit plan Fully Our talent, reward and recognition page 62 obligations.
See Diageos 2013 Annual Report Directors remuneration report as well as Financial statements employees EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government.
Fully See Diageos 2013 Annual Report Note 8: Taxation Market presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender Not disclosed Not disclosed compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation.
EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locallyFully Sustainable agricultural partnerships page 77 based suppliers at significant locations of operation.
EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Fully Who we are page 57 management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation.
Indirect economic impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments Partially Supporting local interests and infrastructure page 52 and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement.
EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect Partially Local wealth creation page 48 economic impacts, including the extent of impacts.
Environmental Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume.
Fully Our supply chain page 74 Sustainable packaging page 40 We do not report on the breakdown of renewable and nonrenewable as the disclosure is not material to our business.
We believe that it is more useful to our stakeholders to disclose which materials are used in our products, as well as the sustainability of the packaging.
EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input Fully Sustainable packaging page 40 materials.
Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source.
Fully Carbon page 36 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source.
Fully Carbon page 36 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Fully Carbon page 36 improvements.
EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy Fully Carbon page 36 based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives.
EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and Partially Carbon page 36 reductions achieved.
Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source.
Fully Water page 33 The wider environment page 41 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal Partially Water page 33 of water.
The wider environment page 41 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled Not disclosed and reused.
About this report and GRI 95 Description Reported Cross-reference direct answer Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or Fully The wider environment page 41 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas.
EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, Not disclosed and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas.
Not disclosed EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing Not disclosed impacts on biodiversity.
EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national Partially The wider environment page 41 conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk.
Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Fully Carbon page 36 by weight.
EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions Partially Carbon page 36 by weight.
The wider environment page 41 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and Fully Carbon page 36 reductions achieved.
EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight.
Fully The wider environment page 41 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type Fully The wider environment page 41 and weight.
EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination.
Partially Water page 33 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method.
Fully Waste page 38 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills.
Fully The wider environment page 41 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated Not disclosed waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally.
EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water Not disclosed bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organisations discharges of water and runoff.
Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products Fully Water page 33 and services, and extent of impact mitigation.
Carbon page 36 Waste page 38 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials Not disclosed that are reclaimed by category.
Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number Fully The wider environment page 41 of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations.
Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting Fully Carbon page 36 products and other goods and materials used for the The wider environment page 41 organisations operations, and transporting members of the workforce.
Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and Partially The business case risks and opportunities page 14 investments by type.
Carbon page 36 Cameronbridge: cleaner energy, cleaner water page 46 Social: Labour Practices and Decent Work Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Fully Who we are page 57 contract, and region, broken down by gender.
LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and Partially Who we are page 57 employee turnover by age group, gender, and region.
LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Not disclosed provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations.
LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, Not disclosed by gender.
Labour management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining Fully Our talent page 62 agreements.
LA5 Minimum notice period s regarding significant operational Fully Managing change page 58 changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements.
96 Diageo Sustainability & Responsibility Report 2013 About our business Approach and performance Impacts About this report and GRI Description Reported Cross-reference direct answer Occupational health and safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Not disclosed management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes.
LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Partially Safety page 59 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender.
LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control Fully Health and wellbeing page 61 programmes in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases.
LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements Not disclosed with trade unions.
Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by Partially Our talent, Developing talent page 62 gender, and by employee category.
LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning Partially Our talent, Developing talent page 62 that support the continued employability of employees Who we are, Managing change page 57, page 58 and assist them in managing career endings.
LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Fully Our talent, Developing talent page 62 and career development reviews, by gender.
Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Partially Who we are page 57 employees per employee category according to gender, See Diageos 2013 Annual Report Corporate governance report age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity.
Equal remuneration for women and men LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by Not disclosed employee category, by significant locations of operation.
Social: Human Rights Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment Not disclosed agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening.
HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other Fully Responsible sourcing page 76 business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken.
HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures Fully Codes and policies page 67 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained.
Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective Not disclosed actions taken.
Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which Not disclosed the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights.
Child labour HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having Not disclosed significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour.
Forced and compulsory labour HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having Not disclosed significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour.
Security practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Not disclosed organisations policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations.
Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights Not material Not material of indigenous people and actions taken.
Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have Fully Monitoring, auditing and reporting page 70 been subject to human rights reviews and or impact assessments.
About this report and GRI 97 Description Reported Cross-reference direct answer Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, Not disclosed addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms.
Social: Society Local communities SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local Partially Sustainability & Responsibility Strategy page 13 community engagement, impact assessments, and disclosed development programmes.
SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative Partially Community investment, Access to clean water page 51 impacts on local communities.
disclosed SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in Fully Sustainability & Responsibility Strategy page 13 operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities.
Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed Fully Monitoring, auditing and reporting page 70 for risks related to corruption.
See Diageos 2013 Annual Report Corporate governance report SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisations Fully Code training page 68 anti-corruption policies and procedures.
SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption.
Fully Monitoring, auditing and reporting page 70 Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy Fully Getting policy right page 26 development and lobbying.
Regulatory environment and public policy page 66 Advocacy page 53 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political Fully See Diageos 2013 Annual Report Corporate governance report, parties, politicians, and related institutions by country.
Charitable and political donations Anti-competitive behaviour SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, Not disclosed anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes.
Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Fully No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws non-compliance with laws and regulations this year and regulations.
Social: Product Responsibility Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of Partially Communicating about alcohol responsibly page 22 products and services are assessed for improvement, and Food safety and quality page 78 percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures.
PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Fully Communicating about alcohol responsibly page 22 regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and Food safety and quality page 78 safety impacts of products and services during their life To the best of our knowledge, we have had no significant cycle, by type of outcomes.
incidents of non-compliance with regulations regulating in a fine or penalty or warning.
Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by Partially Communicating about alcohol responsibly, Making information procedures, and percentage of significant products and available to consumers page 22 services subject to such information requirements.
Food safety and quality page 78 PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Fully Food safety and quality page 78 regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes.
PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results Fully Food safety and quality page 78 of surveys measuring customer satisfaction.
Marketing communications PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and Partially Communicating about alcohol responsibly page 22 voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship.
PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Fully Communicating about alcohol responsibly page 22 regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes.
Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding Fully To the best of our knowledge, there have been no substantiated breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data.
complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data.
Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance Not disclosed with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services.
