About our business Approach and performance Impacts About this report and GRI UN Global Compact Index Diageo supports the UN Global Compact UNGC, and its core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption.
Diageo is also a signatory to the UNGC CEO Water Mandate.
The following index, structured along the UNGC advanced reporting criteria, serves as our annual Communication on Progress COP.
United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Criterion Description Cross-reference direct answer Implementing the ten principles into strategies and operations Criterion 1 Mainstreaming into corporate functions and Sustainability & Responsibility Strategy page 13 business units The business case risks and opportunities page 14 Performance and key metrics page 18 Criterion 2 Value chain implementation Approach and performance entire section page 12 Codes and policies page 67 Our value chain entire section page 73 Robust human rights management policies and procedures Criterion 3 Robust commitments, strategies or policies in Who we are page 57 the area of human rights Human rights page 63 Codes and policies page 67 Responsible sourcing page 76 Criterion 4 Effective management systems to integrate the How we manage sustainability and responsibility human rights principles page 16 Compliance and ethics programme page 69 Criterion 5 Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms Compliance and ethics programme page 69 of human rights integration Monitoring, auditing and reporting page 70 Human rights page 63 Robust labour management policies and procedures Criterion 6 Robust commitments, strategies or policies in Codes and policies internal page 67 the area of labour Our people entire section page 55 Responsible sourcing page 76 Criterion 7 Effective management systems to integrate the Safety page 59 labour principles Health and wellbeing page 61 Our talent page 62 Compliance and ethics programme page 69 Responsible sourcing page 76 Criterion 8 Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms Safety page 59 of labour principles integration Compliance and ethics programme page 69 Responsible sourcing page 76 About this report and GRI 99 Criterion Description Cross-reference direct answer Robust environmental management policies and procedures Criterion 9 Robust commitments, strategies or policies in Approach and performance entire section the area of environmental stewardship page 12 Water and the environment entire section page 30 Codes and policies page 67 Responsible sourcing page 76 Criterion 10 Effective management systems to integrate the Water and the environment entire section environmental principles page 30 Criterion 11 Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms Water and the environment entire section for environmental stewardship page 30 Robust anti-corruption management policies and procedures Criterion 12 Robust commitments, strategies or policies in Codes and policies page 67 the area of anti-corruption Responsible sourcing page 76 Criterion 13 Effective management systems to integrate the Leadership training page 62 anti-corruption principle Codes and policies page 67 Monitoring, auditing and reporting page 70 Criterion 14 Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms Monitoring, auditing and reporting page 70 for the integration of anti-corruption Taking action in support of broader UN goals and issues Criterion 15 Core business contributions to UN goals Approach and performance entire section and issues page 12 CEO global commitments to reduce harmful drinking page 21 Criterion 16 Strategic social investments and philanthropy Socio-economic development entire section page 47 Criterion 17 Advocacy and public policy engagement Advocacy and awareness page 53 Criterion 18 Partnerships and collective action CEO global commitments to reduce harmful drinking page 21 Advocacy and awareness page 53 Corporate sustainability governance and leadership Criterion 19 CEO commitment and leadership Chief executives introduction page 2 Criterion 20 Board adoption and oversight How we manage sustainability and responsibility page 16 Criterion 21 Stakeholder engagement Sustainability & Responsibility Strategy page 13 Engaging stakeholders page 15 Diageo plc is incorporated as a public limited Cautionary statement regarding that will occur in the future and circumstances company in England and Wales.
Diageo was forward-looking statements could cause actual results and developments to This report contains certain forward-looking differ materially from those expressed in or implied incorporated as Arthur Guinness Son & Company Limited on 21 October 1886.
The group was formed statements relating to the plans and objectives by such forward-looking statements.
Although it by the merger of Grand Metropolitan Public ofDiageo.
These forward-looking statements can isbelieved that the expectations reflected in such Limited Company GrandMet and Guinness PLC be identified by the fact that they do not relate forward-looking statements are reasonable, no onlytohistorical or current facts.
Forward-looking assurance can be given that such expectations will the Guinness Group in December 1997.
Diageo plcs principal executive office is located at statements often use words such as anticipate, prove to have been correct and you are therefore Lakeside Drive, Park Royal, London NW10 7HQ seek, target, expect, estimate, intend, plan, cautioned not to place undue reliance on these andits telephone number is 44 0 20 8978 6000. goal, believe, hope, aims, continue, will, forward-looking statements which speak only as at the date of this document.
Diageo assumes no may, should, would, could, or other words of similar meaning.
These statements are based on obligation to update or correct the information assumptions and assessments made by Diageo contained in this report whether as a result of new inlight of their experience and their perception information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.
ofhistorical trends, current conditions, future developments and other factors they believe appropriate.
By their nature, forward-looking Diageo plc 2013 statements involve risk and uncertainty, because they relate to events and depend on circumstances 100 Diageo Sustainability & Responsibility Report 2013 GO ONLINE QUICK EFFICIENT GREEN View our 2013 Annual Report and Sustainability & Responsibility Report online at: www.
com 01 01 S ustainability & Responsibility Report 02 Annual Report 02 Designed by saslondon.
com Cover printed on Hello Silk and text printed on Munken Polar.
Both grades are from the FSC Mixed Credit group ofmaterials and are manufactured at mills which are certified to the ISO14001 and EMAS environmental standards.
Printed by Fulmar Colour on behalf of RR Donnelley.
Fulmar Colour are ISO14001 certified, CarbonNeutral, Alcohol Free and FSC and PEFC Chain of Custody certified.
The inks used are vegetable oil based.
Diageo Sustainability & Responsibility Report 2013 2013 Diageo plc.
Diageo plc All rights reserved.
Lakeside Drive All brands mentioned Park Royal in this Sustainability & Sustainability & Responsibility Report London are trademarks and Responsibility NW10 7HQ are registered and or United Kingdom otherwise protected Report 2013 in accordance with applicable law.
com Registered in England No.
