leave to be sought for that sale in respect of any Loan, trade and other receivables exposures Post balance sheet events relevant winding-up petition, though there are managed locally in the operating units On 4 July 2013 Diageo purchased an additional where they arise and credit limits are can be no certainty as to the outcome of any 14.98% equity interest 21.76 million shares in such application or the timeframe within established as deemed appropriate for United Spirits Limited USL at a cost of INR 1440 which it would be concluded.
per share totalling INR 31.3 billion 344 million for Diageo in any such proceedings could harm For a detailed analysis of the groups from United Breweries Holdings Limited exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate, the value of Diageos investment in USL and UBHL, subsidiaries of UBHL and USL and Diageos future financial results.
commodity price, credit and liquidity risks see SWEW Benefit Company a company In addition on 4 July 2013, Diageo note 19 to the consolidated financial established for the benefit of certain USL Holdings Netherlands B. V. DHN, a wholly statements.
employees on completion of the share owned subsidiary of Diageo plc, agreed to purchase agreement of 9 November 2012 the issue a conditional back-stop guarantee to Critical accounting policies SPA.
This has taken the groups equity interest Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered in USL to 25.02%.
With the completion of this This section on critical accounting policies in respect of the liabilities of Watson Limited purchase, the shareholders agreement forms part of the audited financial statements.
Watson, a company affiliated with Dr Mallya, between Diageo, UBHL and Kingfisher Finvest The consolidated financial statements are under a $135 million 89 million facility that India Limited a subsidiary of UBHL has prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Diageos Standard Chartered, subject to agreement of become effective.
Diageos 25.02% accounting policies are set out in the notes to full documentation and implementation of a shareholding in USL, together with the voting the consolidated financial statements.
In security package, would advance to Watson.
and other governance arrangements agreed applying these policies, the directors are The terms require that any right of Standard with the UBHL group including Dr Mallyas required to make estimates and subjective Chartered to call on the guarantee from DHN continued role as Chairman of USL, will enable judgements that may affect the reported will be subject to Standard Chartered having Diageo to reflect the results of USL in its amounts of assets and liabilities at the balance first taken certain agreed steps to recover consolidated accounts.
sheet date and reported profit for the year.
from Watson, including defined steps towards As previously announced by Diageo on Thedirectors base these on a combination of enforcement of its expected security package.
4 July, the High Court of Karnataka the High past experience and any other evidence that In addition, the terms require that DHN would Court had granted leave under sections 536 isrelevant to the particular circumstance.
have, in respect of its potential liability and 537 of the Indian Companies Act in respect Theactual outcome could differ from those under this guarantee, the benefit of counterof five winding-up petitions the Original estimates.
Of Diageos accounting policies, indemnities from Watson and Dr Mallya as Petitions against UBHL that were pending on thedirectors consider that policies in relation well as the security package put in place for the date of the SPA, to enable the sale by UBHL to the following areas are particularly subject the Standard Chartered facility.
to Diageo to take place notwithstanding the to estimates and the exercise of judgement.
continued existence of those winding-up Off-balance sheet arrangements petitions.
Two additional winding-up petitions Post employment benefits were brought against UBHL after 9 November Neither Diageo plc nor any member of the Diageo accounts for post employment 2012, and the leave granted by the High Court Diageo group has any off-balance sheet benefits in accordance with IAS 19 Employee does not extend to them.
It is possible that the financing arrangements that currently have or benefits.
Application of IAS 19 requires the decision of the High Court in respect of the are reasonably likely to have a material future exercise of judgement in relation to various Original Petitions could be reviewed on appeal, effect on the groups financial condition, assumptions including future pay rises in and appeals against the grant of leave have changes in financial condition, results of excess of inflation, employee and pensioner been filed by certain petitioners.
As also operations, liquidity, capital expenditure or demographics and the future expected previously announced, it was considered capital resources.
unlikely that any appeal process in respect of Diageo determines the assumptions to be the leave decision on the Original Petitions adopted in discussion with its actuaries, and Risk management would definitively conclude on a timely basis believes these assumptions to be in line with The groups funding, liquidity and exposure to and, accordingly, Diageo waived the best practice, but the application of different foreign currency, interest rate risks, financial conditionality under the SPA relating to the assumptions could have a significant effect credit risk and commodity price risk are absence of insolvency proceedings in relation onthe amounts reflected in the income conducted within a framework of board to UBHL and acquired 10.14 million USL shares statement, other comprehensive income and approved policies and guidelines, which are from UBHL as part of the completion on 4 July balance sheet in respect of post employment recommended and subsequently monitored 2013.
In the event that a winding-up order is benefits.
The assumptions vary among the by the finance committee.
This committee is passed in respect of UBHL, the sale of these countries in which the group operates, and described in the corporate governance report.
USL shares by UBHL to Diageo would, as a there may be an interdependency between The finance committee receives monthly matter of Indian company law, be treated as some of the assumptions.
The major reports on the activities of the treasury automatically void unless leave of the court assumptions used by the group for the three department, including any exposures that in respect of all relevant winding-up petitions years ended 30 June 2013 are set out in note 4 differ from the defined benchmarks.
had been or were obtained for that sale.
to the consolidated financial statements and The group purchases insurance for Accordingly, it is possible that, if a winding-up the sensitivity to these assumptions are given commercial or, where required, for legal or order were to be passed in respect of UBHL, in note 4 g to the consolidated financial contractual reasons.
In addition, the group title to these 10.14 million USL shares acquired statements.
retains some insurable risk where external from UBHL could be lost.
If, following any such insurance is not considered to be an economic winding-up order, the sale of these USL shares means of mitigating this risk.
by UBHL were to be treated as automatically void, it would remain open for retrospective Business review 79
