Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings continued statements In response Diageo Korea filed a claim with the Seoul Administrative Court Court along with a petition for preliminary injunction to 125 stay the final imposition notice.
The Court granted Diageo Koreas request for preliminary injunction and has stayed the final imposition Auditors report in respect of the Group until the decision of the Court on the underlying matter.
On 31 October 2012, the Court instructed the Korean customs authorities to 126 reinvestigate the second imposition notice per the instructions of the Tax Tribunal and stayed the Court hearings until the completion Consolidated of the re-audit.
The re-audit was completed in February 2013 and the Court hearings resumed in June 2013. income statement The underlying matter remains in progress with the Court and Diageo Korea is unable to quantify meaningfully the possible loss or 127 range of loss to which these claims may give rise.
Diageo Korea continues to defend its position vigorously.
Consolidated statement of d Thalidomide litigation comprehensive income In Australia, a class action claim alleging product liability and negligence for injuries arising from the consumption of the drug thalidomide has been filed in the Supreme Court of Victoria against Distillers Company Biochemicals Limited, its parent Diageo 128 Consolidated Scotland Limited formerly Distillers Company Limited, as well as against Grnenthal GmbH, the developer of the drug not a member balance sheet of the group.
On 18 July 2012 Diageo settled the claim of the lead claimant Lynette Rowe and agreed a process to consider the 129 remaining claimants in the class.
To enable this process to occur, Ms Rowe and her legal representatives have agreed not to take any step Consolidated toward a trial of any issue in the litigation before 31 August 2013.
Pursuant to orders made by the Supreme Court of Victoria the class has statement of now been closed.
124 claimants have filed registration forms in the Rowe class action.
In the United Kingdom, proceedings have twice changes in equity been commenced but lapsed for lack of service.
Distillers Company Biochemicals Limited distributed the drug in Australia and the 130 United Kingdom for a period in the late 1950s and early 1960s.
Diageo is unable to quantify meaningfully the possible loss or range of Consolidated statement of loss to which these lawsuits may give rise.
The group has worked voluntarily for many years with various thalidomide organisations and cash flows has provided significant financial support.
131 Accounting policies e Other of the group The group has extensive international operations and is defendant in a number of legal, customs and tax proceedings incidental to 135 these operations, the outcome of which cannot at present be foreseen.
In particular, the group is currently the defendant in customs Notes to the proceedings in India and in Brazil that challenge the declared customs value of products imported by Diageo India and Diageo Brazil.
consolidated Diageo continues to defend its position vigorously in these proceedings.
financial statements Save as disclosed above, neither Diageo, nor any member of the Diageo group, is or has been engaged in, nor so far as Diageo is 183 aware is there pending or threatened by or against it, any legal or arbitration proceedings which may have a significant effect on the Auditors report inrespect of financial position of the Diageo group.
Related party transactions Company balance sheet Transactions between the group and its related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arms length transactions.
185 Accounting policies Subsidiaries of the company Transactions between the company and its subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation and therefore are not disclosed.
Details of the 187 principal group companies are given after these financial statements.
Notes to the company financial Associates and joint ventures statements Sales and purchases to and from associates and joint ventures are principally in respect of premium drinks products but also include the 190 provision of management services.
All transactions are on terms equivalent to those in an arms length transaction.
Principal group companies 201 3 2012 2011 million million million Income statement items Sales to associates 56 37 46 Purchases from associates 11 22 26 Sales to joint ventures 6 5 5 Purchases from joint ventures 30 41 21 Balance sheet items Group payables to associates 2 1 8 Group receivables from associates 5 2 Loans payable to associates 3 Loans receivable from associates 29 57 63 Group payables to joint ventures 1 1 3 Group receivables from joint ventures 3 3 7 Cash flow items Loans and equity contributions to associates, net 32 27 22 Including purchase of maturing inventories from Mot Hennessy of 4 million 2012 9 million: 2011 9 million.
Other disclosures in respect of associates are included in note 7.
