Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
New accounting policies a Adopted by the group The following accounting amendment, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, is effective for the first time in the current financial year and has been adopted by the group with no impact on its consolidated results or financial position: Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of items of other comprehensive income requires that items included in other comprehensive income are analysed between items that will not be recycled subsequently to the income statement and items that may be recycled subsequently to the income statement.
b Not adopted by the group The following standards, amendments and interpretations issued by the IASB and endorsed by the EU unless stated otherwise, have not yet been adopted by the group.
The standards or amendments will be adopted by the group in the year ending 30 June 2014, unless stated otherwise.
The group does not currently believe the adoption of these standards or amendments will have a material impact on its consolidated results or financial position, unless stated otherwise.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments effective in the year ending 30 June 2016, not yet endorsed by the EU removes the multiple classification and measurement models for financial assets required by IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement and introduces a model that has only two classification categories: amortised cost and fair value.
Classification is determined by the business model used to manage the financial assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial assets.
The accounting and presentation of financial liabilities and for derecognising financial instruments has been transferred from IAS 39 without any significant changes.
The amendment to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures requires additional disclosures on transition from IAS 39 to IFRS 9.
The group is currently assessing the impact this standard would have on its consolidated results and financial position.
IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements replaces the guidance of control and consolidation in IAS 27 and SIC -12 Consolidation special purpose entities.
The core principle that a consolidated entity presents a parent and its subsidiaries as if they were a single entity remains unchanged, as do the mechanics of consolidation.
Application of IFRS 10 will not result in a change to the scope of the consolidation.
IFRS 1 1 Joint arrangements requires joint arrangements to be accounted for as a joint operation or as a joint venture depending on the rights and obligations of each party to the arrangement.
Proportionate consolidation for joint ventures will be eliminated and equity accounting will be mandatory.
If the standard had been adopted by the group for the year ended 30 June 2013, net sales, operating profit and profit for the year would be lower by 130 million, 41 million and 11 million, respectively 2012 123 million, 39 million and 10 million, respectively, and net assets, total assets and total liabilities would have reduced by 19 million, 86 million and 67 million, respectively 2012 19 million, 81 million and 62 million, respectively.
There is no impact on earnings per share.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities requires enhanced disclosures of the nature, risks and financial effects associated with the groups interests in subsidiaries, associates, joint arrangements and unconsolidated structured entities.
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement explains how to measure fair value and aims to enhance fair value disclosures.
The standard does not materially change the measurement of fair values but codifies it in one place.
Amendments to IAS 19 Employee benefits changes a number of disclosure requirements for post employment arrangements and restricts the options currently available on how to account for defined benefit pension plans.
The most significant change that will impact the group is that the amendment requires the expected returns on pension plan assets, currently calculated based on managements estimate of expected returns, to be replacedby a credit on the pension plan assets calculated at the liability discount rate.
The group estimates the adoption of the revised IAS 19 would result in an additional charge to operating profit of 10 million and to finance charges of 33 million in the year ended 30 June 2013 2012 11 million and 44 million, respectively.
The adoption of the amendment to the standard will not impact the groups net assets.
Amendment to IAS 1 Clarification of the requirements for comparative information Limited scope amendment to IAS 12 Income taxes Amendment to IAS 16 Classification of servicing equipment IAS 27 Revised Separate financial statements IAS 28 Revised Investments in associates and joint ventures Amendment to IAS 32 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities effective in the year ending 30 June 2015 Amendment to IAS 32 Tax effect of distribution to holders of equity instruments Amendment to IAS 34 Interim financial reporting Amendment to IAS 36 Recoverable amount Disclosures for non-financial assets not yet endorsed by the EU Amendment to IFRS 7 Disclosures Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities IFRIC 21 Levies effective in the year ending 30 June 2015, not yet endorsed by the EU Notes to the consolidated financial statements 135
