Additional information Articles of association for shareholders Diageo is incorporated under the name Diageo plc, and is registered in England and Wales under registered number 23307.
192 The following description summarises certain provisions of Diageos articles of association as adopted by special resolution at the Legal proceedings Annual General Meeting on 14 October 2009 and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Acts, in each case as 192 Related party at 15 July 2013.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Acts and Diageos articles of association.
transactions Information on where investors can obtain copies of Diageos articles of association is provided under Additional information for 192 shareholders Documents on display below.
Share capital All of Diageos ordinary shares are fully paid.
Accordingly, no further contribution of capital may be required by Diageo from the 193 holders of such shares.
American Any amendment to the articles of association of the company may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies depositary shares Act 2006, by way of special resolution.
194 Articles of Directors association Diageos articles of association provide for a board of directors, consisting unless otherwise determined by an ordinary resolution of 197 shareholders of not fewer than three directors and not more than 25 directors, in which all powers to manage the business and affairs Exchange controls of Diageo are vested.
Directors may be elected by the members in a general meeting or appointed by the board of directors.
At each 197 annual general meeting, the following are required to retire and are then reconsidered for re-election, assuming they wish to stand for Documents on display re-election: any director who has been appointed by the board of directors since the last annual general meeting: any director who has 197 been in office during the two previous general meetings and did not retire at either of them: and any director who has been in office, Taxation other than in an executive position, for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the meeting.
There is no age limit 199 requirement in respect of directors.
Directors may also be removed before the expiration of their term of office in accordance with the Warning to shareholders provisions of the Companies Acts.
share fraud Under Diageos articles of association, a director cannot vote in respect of any proposal in which the director has an interest.
200 However, this restriction on voting does not apply where the interest cannot reasonably be regarded as giving rise to a conflict of Independent interest, nor to resolutions a giving the director any guarantee, security or indemnity in respect of obligations or liabilities incurred for Assurance Report of the benefit of Diageo, b giving any guarantee, security or indemnity to a third party in respect of obligations of Diageo for which the KPMG Audit Plc to director has assumed responsibility under an indemnity or guarantee or by the giving of security, c relating to an offer of securities of Diageo plc Diageo in which the director participates or may participate as a holder of shares or other securities or in the underwriting, d relating to IBC any contract in which the director is interested by virtue of the directors interest in securities of Diageo or by reason of any other interest Glossary of terms and US equivalents in or through Diageo, e concerning any other company in which the director is directly or indirectly interested, provided that the director does not have a relevant interest in that company, f relating to the arrangement of any employee benefit including any retirement benefit plan in which the director will share equally with other employees, g relating to any insurance that Diageo purchases or maintains for its directors or any group of people, including directors, h giving the director an indemnity where all the other directors are being offered indemnities on substantially the same terms, and i for the funding by Diageo of the directors expenditure on defending proceedings or the doing by Diageo of anything to enable the director to avoid incurring such expenditure where all the other directors are being offered substantially the same arrangements.
A director cannot vote in relation to any resolution of the board concerning his own appointment, or the settlement or variation of the terms or the termination of his own appointment, as the holder of any office or place of profit with Diageo or any company in which Diageo is interested.
Under Diageos articles of association, compensation awarded to directors may be decided by the board or any authorised committee of the board.
The remuneration committee is responsible for making recommendations to the board concerning matters relating to remuneration policy.
It is comprised of all the non-executive directors except for the chairman.
The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of Diageo to borrow money, subject to the limitation that the aggregate amount of all net external borrowings of the group outstanding at any time shall not exceed an amount equal to twice the aggregate of the groups adjusted capital and reserves calculated in the manner prescribed in Diageos articles of association, unless sanctioned by an ordinary resolution of Diageos shareholders.
Directors are not required to hold any shares of Diageo as a qualification to act as a director.
Dividend rights Holders of Diageos ordinary shares may, by ordinary resolution, declare dividends but may not declare dividends in excess of the amount recommended by the directors.
The directors may also pay interim dividends or fixed rate dividends.
No dividend may be paid other than out of profits available for distribution.
All of Diageos ordinary shares rank equally for dividends, but the board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of Diageos shares from a person with a 0.25% interest asdefined in Diageos articles of association if such a person has been served with a restriction notice as defined in Diageos articles ofassociation after failure to provide Diageo with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Dividends may be paid in currencies other than pounds sterling and such dividends will be calculated using an appropriate market exchange rate as determined by the directors in accordance with Diageos articles of association.
194 Diageo Annual Report 2013 If a dividend has not been claimed, the directors may invest the dividend or use it in some other way for the benefit of Diageo until thedividend is claimed.
If the dividend remains unclaimed for 12 years after the date such dividend was declared or became due for payment, it will be forfeited and will revert to Diageo unless the directors decide otherwise.
Diageo may stop sending cheques, warrants or similar financial instruments in payment of dividends by post in respect of any shares or may cease to employ any other means for payment of dividends if either a at least two consecutive payments have remained uncashed or are returned undelivered orthat means of payment has failed, or b one payment remains uncashed or is returned undelivered or that means of payment has failed and reasonable enquiries have failed to establish any new postal address or account of the holder.
Diageo must resume sending dividend cheques, warrants or similar financial instruments or employing that means of payment if the holder requests such resumption in writing.
Diageos articles of association permit payment or satisfaction of a dividend wholly or partly by distribution of specific assets, including fully paid shares or debentures of any other company.
Such action must be directed by the general meeting which declared the dividend and upon the recommendation of the directors.
Voting rights Voting on any resolution at any general meeting of shareholders is by a show of hands unless a poll is duly demanded.
On a show of hands, a every shareholder who is present in person at a general meeting, and every proxy appointed by any one shareholder and present at a general meeting, has have one vote regardless of the number of shares held by the shareholder or, subject to b, represented by the proxy, and b every proxy present at a general meeting who has been appointed by more than one shareholder has one vote regardless of the number of shareholders who have appointed him or the number of shares held by those shareholders, unless he has been instructed to vote for a resolution by one or more shareholders and to vote against the resolution by one or more shareholders, in which case he has one vote for and one vote against the resolution.
On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every share held by that shareholder, but a shareholder or proxy entitled to more than one vote need not cast all his votes or cast them all in the same way the deadline for exercising voting rights by proxy is set out in the form of proxy.
A poll may be demanded by any of the following: the chairman of the meeting: at least three shareholders entitled to vote on the relevant resolution and present in person or by proxy at the meeting: any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy and representing in the aggregate not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights of all shareholders entitled to vote on the relevant resolution: or any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy and holding shares conferring a right to vote on the relevant resolution on which there have been paid up sums in the aggregate equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares conferring that right.
Diageos articles of association and the Companies Acts provide for matters to be transacted at general meetings of Diageo by the proposing and passing of two kinds of resolutions: ordinary resolutions, which include resolutions for the election, re-election and removal of directors, the declaration of final dividends, the appointment and re-appointment of the external auditor, the increase of authorised share capital and the grant of authority to allot shares: and special resolutions, which include resolutions for the amendment of Diageos articles of association, resolutions relating to the disapplication of pre-emption rights, and resolutions modifying the rights of any class of Diageos shares at a meeting of the holders of such class.
An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a simple majority of the votes cast by those entitled to vote at a meeting at which there is a quorum in order to be passed.
Special resolutions require the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the votes cast by those entitled to vote at a meeting at which there is a quorum in order to be passed.
The necessary quorum for a meeting of Diageo is a minimum of two shareholders present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote.
A shareholder is not entitled to vote at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any share held by him if he has been served with a restriction notice as defined in Diageos articles of association after failure to provide Diageo with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Liquidation rights In the event of the liquidation of Diageo, after payment of all liabilities and deductions taking priority in accordance with English law, the balance of assets available for distribution will be distributed among the holders of ordinary shares according to the amounts paid up on the shares held by them.
Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares While holders of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights under Diageos articles of association, the ability of the directors to cause Diageo to issue shares, securities convertible into shares or rights to shares, otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme, isrestricted.
Under the Companies Acts, the directors of a company are, with certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities without express authorisation, which may be contained in a companys articles of association or given by its shareholders in general meeting, but which in either event cannot last for more than five years.
Under the Companies Acts, Diageo may also not allot shares for cash otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme without first making an offer to existing shareholders to allot such shares to them on the same or more favourable terms in proportion to their respective shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived by a special resolution of the shareholders.
Additional information for shareholders 195 Additional information Disclosure of interests in Diageos shares for shareholders There are no provisions in Diageos articles of association whereby persons acquiring, holding or disposing of a certain percentage 192 of Diageos shares are required to make disclosure of their ownership percentage, although there are such requirements under the Legal proceedings Companies Acts.
The basic disclosure requirement under Part 6 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and Rule 5 of the 192 Disclosure and Transparency Rules made by the Financial Conduct Authority successor to the UK Financial Services Authority imposes Related party a statutory obligation on a person to notify Diageo and the Financial Conduct Authority of the percentage of the voting rights in Diageo transactions he directly or indirectly holds or controls, or has rights over, through his direct or indirect holding of certain financial instruments, if the 192 percentage of those voting rights: Share capital reaches, exceeds or falls below 3% and or any subsequent whole percentage figure as a result of an acquisition or disposal of shares 193 or financial instruments: or American reaches, exceeds or falls below any such threshold as a result of any change in the breakdown or number of voting rights attached to depositary shares shares in Diageo.
194 Articles of association The Disclosure and Transparency Rules set out in detail the circumstances in which an obligation of disclosure will arise, as well as certain exemptions from those obligations for specified persons.
197 Exchange controls Under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006, Diageo may, by notice in writing, require a person that Diageo knows or has reasonable cause to believe is or was during the three years preceding the date of notice interested in Diageos shares to indicate 197 Documents on display whether or not that is the case and, if that person does or did hold an interest in Diageos shares, to provide certain information as set 197 out in that Act.
Taxation Rule 3 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules further requires persons discharging managerial responsibilities within Diageo and their connected persons to notify Diageo of transactions conducted on their own account in Diageo shares or derivatives or 199 Warning to certain financial instruments relating to Diageo shares.
shareholders The City Code on Takeovers and Mergers also imposes strict disclosure requirements with regard to dealings in the securities of share fraud an offeror or offeree company on all parties to a takeover and also on their respective associates during the course of an offer period.
200 Independent General meetings and notices Assurance Report of KPMG Audit Plc to At least 21 clear days written notice of an annual general meeting is required.
Any general meeting which is not an annual general Diageo plc meeting is called a general meeting.
The minimum notice period for general meetings is 21 clear days.
This can, however, be reduced IBC to 14 clear days, subject to shareholder approval, and offering shareholders the facility to vote electronically.
Diageo already offers Glossary of terms and shareholders the facility to vote by electronic means via its online proxy service, and intends to put the necessary resolution to the US equivalents forthcoming Annual General Meeting, as it did in 2012, to approve the holding of subsequent general meetings on not less than 14 clear days notice.
This approval will expire at the next Annual General Meeting.
An annual general meeting of shareholders must be held within six months of Diageos accounting reference date and at a time and place determined by the directors.
The chairman of any general meeting is entitled to refuse admission to or eject from that general meeting any person who fails tocomply with any security arrangements or restrictions that the board may impose.
Variation of rights If, at any time, Diageos share capital is divided into different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class of shares may be varied, subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, either with the consent in writing of the holders of not less than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class or upon the adoption of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions of Diageos articles of association relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, except that a the quorum is to be the number of persons which must be at least two who hold or represent by proxy not less than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or, if such quorum is not present on an adjourned meeting, one person who holds shares of the class regardless of the number of shares he holds, b any holder of shares of the class who is present in person or by proxy may demand a poll, and c each shareholder present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote will have one vote per share held in that particular class in the event a poll is taken.
Class rights are deemed not to have been varied by the creation or issue of new shares ranking equally with or subsequent to that class of shares in all respects or by the reduction of the capital paid up on such shares or by the purchase or redemption by Diageo of its own shares, in each case in accordance with the Companies Acts and Diageos articles of association.
Repurchase of shares Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, Diageo may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Acts.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of Diageos issued share capital.
Diageo currently has shareholder authority to buy back up to 251 million ordinary shares during the period up to the next Annual General Meeting.
The minimum price which must be paid for 101 such shares is 28 108 pence and the maximum price is the higher of a an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five preceding business days and b the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange at the time the purchase is carried out.
