Additional information Additional information for shareholders 192 for shareholders Legal proceedings 192 Legal proceedings Related party Information on legal proceedings is set out in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
transactions 192 Share capital Related party transactions 193 Transactions with directors are disclosed in the directors remuneration report see Directors remuneration report Additional American information and transactions with other related parties are disclosed in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements.
depositary shares 194 Articles of Share capital association Major shareholders 197 At 15 July 2013, the following substantial interests 3% or more in the companys ordinary share capital voting securities had been Exchange controls notified to the company.
197 Documents on display Percentage of issued Number of ordinary share capital Date of notification 197 Shareholder ordinary shares excluding treasury shares of interest Taxation BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited 199 indirect holding 147,296,928 5.89% 3 December 2009 Warning to Capital Research and Management Company shareholders indirect holding 124,653,096 4.99% 28 April 2009 share fraud 200 Independent The company has not been notified of any other substantial interests in its securities.
The companys substantial shareholders do not Assurance Report of have different voting rights.
Diageo, so far as is known by the company, is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another KPMG Audit Plc to corporation or by any government.
Diageo knows of no arrangements, the operation of which may at a subsequent date result in a Diageo plc change of control of the company.
IBC As at the close of business on 15 July 2013, 423,337,935 ordinary shares, including those held through ADSs, were held by Glossary of terms and approximately 2,747 holders including ADR holders with registered addresses in the United States, representing approximately 16.8% US equivalents of the outstanding ordinary shares excluding treasury shares.
At such date, 105,675,959 ADSs were held by 2,070 registered ADR holders.
Since certain of such ordinary shares and ADSs are held by nominees or former GrandMet or Guinness Group ADR holders who have not re-registered their ADSs, the number of holders may not be representative of the number of beneficial owners in the United States or the ordinary shares held by them.
Trading market for shares Diageo plc ordinary shares are listed on the Exchange and on the Dublin and Paris Stock Exchanges.
Diageo ADSs, representing four Diageo ordinary shares each, are listed on the NYSE.
The principal trading market for the ordinary shares is the Exchange.
Diageo shares are traded on the Exchanges electronic order book.
Orders placed on the order book are displayed on-screen through a central electronic system and trades are automatically executed, in price and then time priority, when orders match with corresponding buy or sell orders.
Only member firms of the Exchange, or the Exchange itself if requested by the member firm, can enter or delete orders on behalf of clients or on their own account.
Although use of the order book is not mandatory, all trades, whether or not executed through the order book and regardless of size, must be published immediately after execution unless they are large trades eligible for deferred publication.
The Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID allows for delayed reporting of large trades with a sliding scale requirement based on qualifying minimum thresholds for the amount of consideration to be paid the proportion of average daily turnover ADT of a stock represented by a trade.
Provided that a trade consideration equals or exceeds the qualifying minimum size, it will be eligible for deferred publication ranging from 60 minutes from time of trade to three trading days after time of trade.
Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the pound sterling and the US dollar will affect the US dollar equivalent of the pound sterling price of the ordinary shares on the Exchange and, as a result, will affect the market price of the ADSs on the NYSE.
In addition, such fluctuations will affect the US dollar amounts received by holders of ADSs on conversion of cash dividends paid in pounds sterling on the underlying ordinary shares.
The following table shows, for the periods indicated, the reported high and low middle market quotations which represent an average of bid and asked prices for the ordinary shares on the Exchange, taken from its Daily Official List, and the highest and lowest sales prices for ADSs as reported on the NYSE composite tape.
