Employee share compensation continued statements c Employee share trusts, potential issues of ordinary shares and voting rights 125 In order to hedge its obligations under the share option and share award plans, the group either issues new shares, or purchases own Auditors report in respect of the Group shares directly and holds them as treasury shares, or it funds trusts to acquire shares in the company on the open market.
The shares 126 held are accounted for as a deduction in arriving at shareholders equity.
Call options are also used to manage some of the groups Consolidated obligations.
Dividends receivable by the employee share trusts on the shares are waived.
income statement Where shares held by employee share trusts have been allocated to employee share plan participants, they may exercise 127 their voting rights.
Where shares are held by employee share trusts and have not been allocated to participants, the trustee abstains Consolidated from voting.
Post balance sheet events 128 On 4 July 2013 Diageo purchased an additional 14.98% equity interest 21.76 million shares in United Spirits Limited USL at a cost of Consolidated balance sheet INR 1440 per share totalling INR 31.3 billion 344 million from United Breweries Holdings Limited UBHL, subsidiaries of UBHL and USL and SWEW Benefit Company a company established for the benefit of certain USL employees on completion of the share 129 purchase agreement of 9 November 2012 the SPA.
This has taken the groups equity interest in USL to 25.02%.
With the completion Consolidated statement of of this purchase, the shareholders agreement between Diageo, UBHL and Kingfisher Finvest India Limited a subsidiary of UBHL has changes in equity become effective.
Diageos 25.02% shareholding in USL, together with the voting and other governance arrangements agreed with 130 the UBHL group including Dr Mallyas continued role as Chairman of USL, will enable Diageo to reflect the results of USL in its Consolidated consolidated accounts.
statement of As previously announced by Diageo on 4 July, the High Court of Karnataka the High Court had granted leave under sections 536 cash flows and 537 of the Indian Companies Act in respect of five winding-up petitions the Original Petitions against UBHL that were pending on 131 the date of the SPA, to enable the sale by UBHL to Diageo to take place notwithstanding the continued existence of those winding-up Accounting policies of the group petitions.
Two additional winding-up petitions were brought against UBHL after 9 November 2012, and the leave granted by the High Court does not extend to them.
It is possible that the decision of the High Court in respect of the Original Petitions could be reviewed on 135 Notes to the appeal, and appeals against the grant of leave have been filed by certain petitioners.
As also previously announced, it was considered consolidated unlikely that any appeal process in respect of the leave decision on the Original Petitions would definitively conclude on a timely basis financial statements and, accordingly, Diageo waived the conditionality under the SPA relating to the absence of insolvency proceedings in relation to UBHL 183 and acquired 10.14 million USL shares from UBHL as part of the completion on 4 July 2013.
In the event that a winding-up order is passed Auditors report in respect of UBHL, the sale of these USL shares by UBHL to Diageo would, as a matter of Indian company law, be treated as automatically inrespect of void unless leave of the court in respect of all relevant winding-up petitions had been or were obtained for that sale.
Accordingly, it is thecompany possible that, if a winding-up order were to be passed in respect of UBHL, title to these 10.14 million USL shares acquired from UBHL 184 Company could be lost.
If, following any such winding-up order, the sale of these USL shares by UBHL were to be treated as automatically void, it balance sheet would remain open for retrospective leave to be sought for that sale in respect of any relevant winding-up petition, though there can be no certainty as to the outcome of any such application or the timeframe within which it would be concluded.
Adverse results for 185 Accounting policies Diageo in any such proceedings could harm the value of Diageos investment in USL and Diageos future financial results.
of the company In addition on 4 July 2013, Diageo Holdings Netherlands B. V. DHN, a wholly owned subsidiary of Diageo plc, agreed to issue 187 a conditional back-stop guarantee to Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered in respect of the liabilities of Watson Limited Notes to the Watson, a company affiliated with Dr Mallya, under a $135 million 89 million facility that Standard Chartered, subject to agreement of company financial full documentation and implementation of a security package, would advance to Watson.
The terms require that any right of Standard statements Chartered to call on the guarantee from DHN will be subject to Standard Chartered having first taken certain agreed steps to recover 190 from Watson, including defined steps towards enforcement of its expected security package.
In addition, the terms require that DHN Principal group companies would have, in respect of its potential liability under this guarantee, the benefit of counter-indemnities from Watson and Dr Mallya as well as the security package put in place for the Standard Chartered facility.
