Restrictions on transfers of shares The board may decline to register a transfer of a certificated Diageo share unless the instrument of transfer a is duly stamped or certified or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the board to be exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the relevant share certificate and such other evidence of the right to transfer as the board may reasonably require, b is in respect of only one class of share and c if to joint transferees, is in favour of not more than four such transferees.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules as defined in the articles of association and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
The board may decline to register a transfer of any of Diageos certificated shares by a person with a 0.25% interest as defined in Diageos articles of association if such a person has been served with a restriction notice as defined in Diageos articles of association after failure to provide Diageo with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts, unless the transfer is shown to the board to be pursuant to an arms length sale as defined in the articles of association.
Exchange controls There are currently no UK foreign exchange control restrictions on the payment of dividends to US persons on Diageos ordinary shares or on the conduct of Diageos operations.
There are no restrictions under the companys articles of association or under English law that limit the right of non-resident or foreign owners to hold or vote the companys ordinary shares.
Please refer to the Taxation section below for details relating to the taxation of dividend payments.
Documents on display The Annual Report on Form 20-F and any other documents filed by the company with the US Securities Exchange Commission may be inspected at the Securities and Exchange Commissions public reference room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 or on the SECs website www.
Information on the operation of the public reference room can be obtained by calling the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1 800 SEC 0330.
Taxation This section provides a descriptive summary of certain US federal income tax and UK tax consequences that are likely to be material to the holders of the ordinary shares or ADSs, but only those who hold their ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets for tax purposes.
It does not purport to be a complete technical analysis or a listing of all potential tax effects relevant to the ownership of the ordinary shares and ADSs.
This section does not apply to any holder who is subject to special rules, including: a dealer in securities or foreign currency: a trader in securities that elects to use a mark-to-market method of accounting for securities holdings: a tax-exempt organisation: a life insurance company: a person liable for alternative minimum tax: a person that actually or constructively owns 10% or more of the voting stock of Diageo: a person that holds ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle or a hedging or conversion transaction: a person that holds ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a wash sale for tax purposes: or a US holder as defined below whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
If a partnership holds ordinary shares or ADSs, the US federal income tax treatment of a partner will generally depend on the status of the partner and the tax treatment of the partnership.
A partner in a partnership holding ordinary shares or ADSs should consult their tax advisor with regard to the US federal income tax treatment of an investment in ordinary shares or ADSs.
For UK tax purposes, this section applies only to persons who are the absolute beneficial owners of their shares or ADSs and who hold their shares or ADSs as investments.
It assumes that holders of ADSs will be treated as holders of the underlying ordinary shares.
In addition to those persons mentioned above, this section does not apply to holders that are banks, regulated investment companies, other financial institutions or to persons who have or are deemed to have acquired their ordinary shares or ADSs in the course of an employment or trade.
This summary does not apply to persons who are treated as non-domiciled and resident or ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom for the purposes of UK tax law.
This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations, published rulings and court decisions, the laws of the United Kingdom and the practice of Her Majestys Revenue and Customs, all as currently in effect, as well as on the Convention Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Tax on Income and Capital Gains the Treaty.
These laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
In addition, this section is based in part upon the representations of the Depositary and the assumption that each obligation in the Deposit Agreement and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
In general, and taking into account this assumption, for US federal income tax purposes and for the purposes of the Treaty, holders of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be treated as the owner of the shares represented by those ADSs.
Exchanges of shares for ADRs, and ADRs for shares, generally will not be subject to US federal income tax or to UK tax on profits or gains.
Additional information for shareholders 197 Additional information A US holder is a beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that is for US federal income tax purposes: for shareholders a citizen or resident for tax purposes of the United States and who is not and has at no point been resident or ordinarily resident in the 192 United Kingdom: Legal proceedings a US domestic corporation: 192 an estate whose income is subject to US federal income tax regardless of its source: or Related party a trust if a US court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts administration and one or more US persons are authorised to transactions control all substantial decisions of the trust.
192 Share capital This section is not intended to provide specific advice and no action should be taken or omitted in reliance upon it.
This section 193 addresses only certain aspects of US federal income tax and UK income tax, corporation tax, capital gains tax, inheritance tax and stamp American taxes.
Holders of the ordinary shares or ADSs are urged to consult their own tax advisor regarding the US federal, state and local, and UK depositary shares and other tax consequences of owning and disposing of the shares or ADSs in their respective circumstances.
In particular, holders are 194 encouraged to confirm with their advisor whether they are a US holder eligible for the benefits of the Treaty.
Articles of association Dividends 197 Exchange controls UK taxation There is no UK withholding tax on dividends.
A shareholder who is an individual resident for UK tax purposes in the United Kingdom 197 Documents on display that receives a dividend from the company will generally be entitled to a tax credit equal to one-ninth of the dividend.
The individual 197 will be taxable on the total of the dividend and the related credit, known as the gross dividend, which will be regarded as the top slice Taxation ofthe individuals income.
In the case of a shareholder who is liable to income tax at the basic rate, the tax credit will be treated as discharging the individuals liability to income tax in respect of the gross dividend.
In the case of a shareholder who is liable to income 199 Warning to tax at the higher rate, the individual will be subject to tax on the gross dividend at the rate of 32.5%, to the extent that the gross dividend shareholders falls above the threshold for the higher rate of income tax when it is treated as mentioned above as the top slice of the individuals share fraud income.
This means that the tax credit will satisfy only part of the individuals liability to income tax on the gross dividend, so that the 200 individual will have to account for income tax equal to 22.5% of the gross dividend.
In the case of a shareholder who is liable to income Independent tax at the additional rate, the individual will be subject to tax on the gross dividend at the rate of 37.5%, to the extent that the gross Assurance Report of KPMG Audit Plc to dividend falls above the threshold for the additional rate of income tax when it is treated as mentioned above as the top slice of the Diageo plc individuals income.
This means that the tax credit will satisfy only part of the individuals liability to income tax on the gross dividend, IBC sothat the individual will have to account for income tax equal to 27.5% of the gross dividend.
Shareholders within the charge to UK Glossary of terms and corporation tax which are small companies for the purposes of the UK taxation of dividends will not generally be subject to tax on US equivalents dividends from Diageo.
Other shareholders within the charge to UK corporation tax will not be subject to tax on dividends from Diageo so long as the dividends fall within an exempt class and certain conditions are met.
In general, dividends paid on shares that are ordinary share capital for UK tax purposes and are not redeemable and dividends paid to a person holding less than 10% of the issued share capital of the payer or any class of that share capital are examples of dividends that fall within an exempt class.
A shareholder who is not liable for tax on dividends received on the shares will not be entitled to claim payment of the tax credit in respect of those dividends.
Eligible US holders will not normally be entitled to a tax credit under the Treaty, nor will they be subject to a withholding tax by the United Kingdom.
US taxation Under the US federal income tax laws, and subject to the passive foreign investment company PFIC, rules discussed below, the gross amount of any dividend paid to a US holder by Diageo in respect of its ordinary shares or ADSs out of its current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes is subject to US federal income taxation.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder that constitute qualified dividend income will be taxed at the preferential rates applicable to long term capital gains, provided that the ordinary shares or ADSs are held for more than 60 days during the 121 day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date and the holder meets other holding period requirements.
Dividends paid by Diageo with respect to its ordinary shares or ADSs generally will be qualified dividend income to US holders that meet the holding period requirement.
Under UK law, dividends are not subject to UK withholding tax.
Therefore, the US holder will include in income for US federal income tax purposes the amount of the dividend received, and the receipt of a dividend will not entitle the US holder to a foreign tax credit.
The dividend must be included in income when the US holder, in the case of shares, or the Depositary, in the case of ADSs, receives the dividend, actually or constructively.
The dividend will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction generally allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends received from other US corporations.
Dividends will be income from sources outside the United States, and, depending on the US holders circumstances, will generally either be passive or general income for purposes of computing the foreign tax credit, if allowable, to a US holder.
The amount of the dividend distribution that must be included in income of a US holder will be the US dollar value of the pence payments made, determined at the spot pounds sterling US dollar foreign exchange rate on the date the dividend distribution is included in income, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into US dollars.
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange fluctuations during the period from the date the dividend payment is included in income to the date the payment is converted into US dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss and will not be eligible for the special tax rate applicable to qualified dividend income.
The gain or loss generally will be income or loss from sources within the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the holders basis in the ordinary shares or ADSs and thereafter as capital gain.
