American depositary shares Fees and charges payable by ADR holders Citibank N. A. serves as the depositary the 'Depositary' for Diageo's ADS programme having replaced the Bank of New York Mellon, thepredecessor depositary, on 14 February 2013.
Pursuant to the deposit agreement between Diageo, the Depositary and owners and holders of ADSs the 'Deposit Agreement', ADR holders may be required to pay various fees to the Depositary, and the Depositary may refuse to provide any service for which a fee is assessed until the applicable fee has been paid.
In particular, the Depositary, under the terms of the Deposit Agreement, shall charge i a fee of $5.00 or less per 100 ADSs or portion of 100 ADSs relating to the issuance of ADSs, including issuances resulting from a distribution of ordinary shares, rights or other property or the cancellation of ADSs for the purpose of withdrawal, including if the Deposit Agreement terminates and ii in connection with the distribution of other securities to ADR holders, a fee equivalent to the fee that would be payable, if securities distributed by Diageo had been ordinary shares and such ordinary shares had been deposited for issuance of ADSs.
In addition, ADR holders may be required under the Deposit Agreement to pay the Depositary i any tax, duty, governmental charge or fee or stock transfer or registration fee arising in connection with the foregoing transactions or otherwise, ii any expense resulting from the conversion of a foreign currency into US dollars and iii the expense of certain communications made, at the request of the ADR holder, by cable, telex or facsimile.
The Depositary may i withhold dividends or other distributions or sell any or all of the shares underlying the ADSs in order to satisfy any tax or governmental charge and ii deduct from any cash distribution any tax payable thereon or the cost of any currency conversion.
Direct and indirect payments by the Depositary The Depositary reimburses Diageo for certain expenses it incurs in connection with the ADR programme, subject to a ceiling set out in the Depositary Agreement pursuant to which the Depositary provides services to Diageo.
The Depositary has also agreed to waive certain standard fees associated with the administration of the programme.
Diageo had a similar arrangement with the Bank of New York Mellon.
Under the contractual arrangements with the Depositary, the Company will receive $1,000,000 each year: with the first such payment due during the course of the financial year ending 30 June 2014.
The companys previous contractual arrangements with the Bank of New York Mellon entitled Diageo to payments of $1,200,000 each year, including during the year ended 30 June 2013.
These payments are received for continuing annual stock exchange listing fees, routine reporting and programme maintenance, standard out-of-pocket maintenance costs for the ADSs consisting of the expenses of postage and envelopes for mailing annual financial reports, printing and distributing dividend checks, electronic filing of US Federal tax information, mailing required tax forms, stationery, postage, facsimile, and telephone calls, legal fees and certain investor relationship programmes and investor relations promotional activities.
