Accounting policies of the group Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union EU and IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
References to IFRS hereafter should be construed as references to both IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, except that biological assets and certain financial instruments are stated at their fair value.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the year.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The critical accounting policies, which the directors consider are of greater complexity and or particularly subject to the exercise of judgement, are set out under Critical accounting policies in the Business review section of this Annual Report.
Basis for preparation of financial statements on a going concern basis Information on the business environment that the group operates in, the groups strategy and the principal risk factors that the group faces is contained in the Business review.
The financial position of the group, its cash flows, borrowings, borrowing facilities, commitments and the groups policies to manage its financial risks are described in the Business review under Liquidity and capital resources, Contractual obligations' and notes 17, 18 and 19 to the consolidated financial statements.
The group has considerable financial resources available.
At 30 June 2013 the group has cash and cash equivalents of 1,772 million and committed bank facilities of 2,302 million, with borrowings and bank overdrafts due within one year of 1,858 million.
The group owns a diverse portfolio of beverage alcohol assets and operates in numerous countries around the world.
The group also has a wide diversity of customers and suppliers.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the group is well positioned to manage its business and financial risks successfully.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
Identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired are measured at fair value at acquisition date.
The consideration payable is measured at fair value and includes the fair value of any contingent consideration.
The consolidated financial statements include the results of the company and its subsidiaries together with the groups attributable share of the results of associates and joint ventures.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are included in the income statement from, or up to, the date that control passes.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled, directly or indirectly, by Diageo plc.
Control is the power to govern the operating and financial policies of the subsidiary so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
On the acquisition of a business, or of an interest in an associate or joint venture, fair values, reflecting conditions at the date of acquisition, are attributed to the net assets including identifiable intangible assets and contingent liabilities acquired.
Directly attributable acquisition costs in respect of subsidiary companies acquired are recognised in other external charges as incurred.
The non-controlling interests on the date of acquisition can be measured either at the fair value or at the non-controlling shareholders proportion of the net fair value of the identifiable assets assumed.
This choice is made separately for each acquisition.
Where the group has issued a put option over shares held by a non-controlling interest, the group derecognises the noncontrolling interests and instead recognises a contingent deferred consideration liability for the estimated amount likely to be paid to the non-controlling interest on the exercise of those options.
Movements in the estimated liability after initial recognition are recognised in retained earnings.
Transactions with non-controlling interests are recorded directly in equity.
Associates and joint ventures An associate is an undertaking in which the group has a long term equity interest and over which it has the power to exercise significant influence.
The groups interest in the net assets of associates is included in investments in the consolidated balance sheet and its interest in their results is included in the consolidated income statement below the groups operating profit.
Investments in associates are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
The impairment review compares the net carrying value with the recoverable amount, where the recoverable amount is the higher of the value in use calculated as the present value of the groups share of the associates future cash flows and its fair value less costs to sell.
Joint ventures, where there is contractual joint control over the entity, are accounted for by including on a line-by-line basis the attributable share of the results, assets and liabilities.
Associates and joint ventures are initially recorded at cost including transaction costs.
Foreign currencies Items included in the financial statements of the groups subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which each entity operates its functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the functional currency of the parent company.
The income statements and cash flows of overseas entities are translated into sterling at weighted average rates of exchange, other than substantial transactions that are translated at the rate on the date of the transaction.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation to closing rates are taken to the exchange reserve.
Accounting policies of the group 131 Financial Balance sheets are translated at closing rates.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation at closing rates of the opening balance statements sheets of overseas entities are taken to the exchange reserve, as are exchange differences arising on foreign currency borrowings and 125 financial instruments designated as net investment hedges, to the extent that they are effective.
Tax charges and credits arising on such Auditors report in items are also taken to the exchange reserve.
Gains and losses accumulated in the exchange reserve are recycled to the income respect of the Group statement when the foreign operation is sold.
Other exchange differences are taken to the income statement.
126 The results of operations in hyperinflationary economies are adjusted to reflect the changes in the purchasing power of the local Consolidated currency of the entity before being translated to sterling.
income statement Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
If hedged, the impact of 127 hedging is recognised, where permitted, under hedge accounting see accounting policy for derivative financial instruments.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive Sales income Sales comprise revenue from the sale of goods, royalties receivable and rents receivable.
Revenue from the sale of goods includes excise 128 and other duties which the group pays as principal but excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties, such as value added tax.
Consolidated Sales are recognised depending upon individual customer terms at the time of despatch, delivery or some other specified point when balance sheet the risk of loss transfers.
Provision is made for returns where appropriate.
Sales are stated net of price discounts, allowances for customer 129 loyalty and certain promotional activities and similar items.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity Advertising and promotion costs 130 Advertising costs, point of sale materials and sponsorship payments are charged to marketing in operating profit when the company Consolidated has a right of access to the goods or services acquired.
statement of cash flows Share-based payments employee benefits 131 The fair value of equity settled share options and share grants is initially measured at grant date based on the binomial or Monte Carlo Accounting policies models and is charged to the income statement over the vesting period.
For equity settled shares the credit is included in retained of the group earnings whereas for cash settled share-based payments a liability is recognised in the balance sheet, measured initially at fair value.
135 Forcash settled share options and share grants, the fair value of the liability is remeasured at the end of each reporting period until the Notes to the consolidated liability is settled, with any changes in the fair value recognised in the income statement.
Cancellations of share options are treated as an financial statements acceleration of the vesting period and any outstanding charge is recognised in operating profit immediately.
Shares of Diageo plc held 183 by the company for the purpose of fulfilling obligations in respect of various employee share plans around the group are deducted Auditors report in from equity in the consolidated balance sheet.
Any surplus or deficit arising on the sale of the Diageo plc shares held by the group is respect of the company included as a movement in equity.
184 Company Pensions and other post employment benefits balance sheet The groups principal pension funds are defined benefit plans.
In addition, the group has defined contribution plans, unfunded post 185 employment medical benefit liabilities and other unfunded defined benefit post employment liabilities.
For post employment plans, Accounting policies other than defined contribution plans, the amount charged to the income statement is the cost of accruing pension benefits promised of the company to employees over the year, plus any fully vested changes arising on benefits granted to members by the group during the year.
The 187 Notes to the income statement also includes a credit equivalent to the groups expected return on the pension plans assets over the year, offset by company financial acharge equal to the expected increase in the plans liabilities over the year.
The differences between the fair value of the plans assets statements and the present value of the plans liabilities are disclosed as an asset or liability on the consolidated balance sheet as appropriate.
Any 190 differences between the expected return on assets and those actually achieved, and any changes in liabilities over the year due to Principal group changes in assumptions or experience within the plans, are recognised in other comprehensive income.
The amount of any pension companies fund asset recognised on the balance sheet is limited to any future refunds from the plan or the present value of reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Contributions payable by the group in respect of defined contribution plans are charged to operating profit as incurred.
Capitalisation of finance costs Finance costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset, being an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale, are added to the cost of that asset.
All other finance costs are recognised as charges in the income statement for the period in which they are incurred.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are those that in managements judgement need to be disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence.
Such items are included within the income statement caption to which they relate, and are separately disclosed either in the notes to the consolidated financial statements or on the face of the consolidated income statement.
Taxation Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
This requires an estimation of the current tax liability together with an assessment of the temporary differences which arise as a consequence of different accounting and tax treatments.
132 Diageo Annual Report 2013 Full provision for deferred tax is made for temporary differences between the carrying value of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and their tax bases.
The amount of deferred tax reflects the expected recoverable amount and is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using the basis of taxation enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are not recognised where it is more likely than not that the asset will not be realised in the future.
No deferred tax liability is provided in respect of any future remittance of earnings of foreign subsidiaries where the group is able to control the remittance of earnings and it is probable that such earnings will not be remitted in the foreseeable future, or where no liability would arise on the remittance.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the tax positions are sustainable.
Once considered to be probable, tax benefits are reviewed each year to assess whether a provision should be taken against full recognition of the benefit on the basis of potential settlement through negotiation and or litigation.
Any interest and penalties on tax liabilities are provided for in the tax charge.
Discontinued operations Discontinued operations comprise disposal groups where they represent a major line of business or geographical area of operations or business activities that the group no longer participates in or did not form part of the groups operations.
Brands, goodwill and other intangible assets Goodwill represents the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred, the value of any non-controlling interests in the subsidiary acquired and the fair value of any previously held equity interest in the subsidiary acquired over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 July 1998 was eliminated against reserves, and this goodwill has not been restated.
Goodwill arising subsequent to 1 July 1998 has been capitalised.
Acquired brands and other intangible assets are recognised when they are controlled through contractual or other legal rights, orare separable from the rest of the business, and the fair value can be reliably measured.
Intangible assets that are regarded as having limited useful economic lives are amortised on a straight-line basis over those lives and reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Goodwill and intangible assets that are regarded as having indefinite useful economic lives are not amortised and are reviewed for impairment at least annually or when there is an indication that the assets may be impaired.
To ensure that assets are not carried at above their recoverable amounts, the impairment reviews compare the net carrying value with the recoverable amount, where the recoverable amount is the value in use.
Amortisation and any impairment write down are charged to other operating expenses in the income statement.
Computer software is amortised on a straight-line basis to estimated residual value over its expected useful life.
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed each year.
Subject to these reviews, the estimated useful lives are up to eight years.
Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Leaseholds are depreciated over the unexpired period of the lease.
Other property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis to estimated residual values over their expected useful lives, and these values and lives are reviewed each year.
Subject to these reviews, the estimated useful lives fall within the following ranges: buildings 10 to 50 years: within plant and equipment casks and containers 15 to 50 years: other plant and equipment 5 to 10 years: fixtures and fittings 5 to 10 years: and returnable bottles and crates 5 to 10 years.
Reviews are carried out if there is an indication that assets may be impaired, to ensure that property, plant and equipment are not carried at above their recoverable amounts.
Government grants Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable assurance that the group will comply with the conditions pursuant to which they have been granted and that the grants will be received.
Government grants in respect of property, plant and equipment are deducted from the asset that they relate to, reducing the depreciation expense charged to the income statement.
Leases Where the group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset subject to a lease, the lease is treated as a finance lease.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the group at their fair value at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in other financial liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet.
Lease payments are apportioned between interest expense and a reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Other leases are treated as operating leases, with payments and receipts taken to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes raw materials, direct labour and expenses, an appropriate proportion of production and other overheads, but not borrowing costs.
Cost is calculated at the weighted average cost incurred in acquiring inventories.
Maturing inventories which are retained for more than one year are classified as current assets, as they are expected to be realised in the normal operating cycle.
Accounting policies of the group 133 Financial Financial assets statements Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and deposits which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are 125 subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original maturity of three months or less, including money market deposits, Auditors report in commercial paper and investments.
respect of the Group Available-for-sale investments are initially recorded at fair value usually the contracted amount plus any directly attributable 126 transaction costs and then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value.
They are included in non-current assets.
Gains Consolidated and losses arising from the changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income until the investment is disposed of or income statement impaired, when the accumulated gains and losses are recycled to the income statement.
Interest and dividends from available-for-sale 127 investments are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Consolidated statement of Loans and receivables are recognised when it is probable that a future economic benefit will flow to the group.
Loans and comprehensive receivables and loans are carried at original invoice or contract amount less any provisions for discounts and doubtful debts.
income Provisions are made where there is evidence of a risk of non payment taking into account ageing, previous experience and general 128 economic conditions.
Consolidated balance sheet Financial liabilities 129 Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value less any directly related transaction costs.
Certain bonds are designated as being Consolidated part of a fair value hedge relationship.
In these cases, the bond is carried at amortised cost, adjusted for the fair value of the risk being statement of changes in equity hedged, with changes in value recognised in the income statement.
The fair value adjustment is calculated using a discounted cash 130 flow technique based on unadjusted market data applied consistently for similar types of instruments.
Other financial liabilities, Consolidated excluding derivatives, are subsequently carried at amortised cost.
The difference between the initial carrying amount of the financial statement of liabilities and their redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the contractual terms using the effective interest cash flows rate method.
131 Accounting policies Derivative financial instruments and hedging of the group Derivative financial instruments are carried at fair value that is calculated using a discounted cash flow technique based on market data 135 applied consistently for similar types of instruments.
Gains and losses on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment Notes to the consolidated are taken to the income statement as they arise.
financial statements The group designates and documents certain derivatives as hedging instruments against changes in fair value of recognised 183 assets and liabilities fair value hedges, highly probable forecast transactions or the cash flow risk from a change in exchange or interest Auditors report in rates cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operations net investment hedges.
The effectiveness of such respect of the company hedges is assessed at inception and at least on a quarterly basis, using prospective and retrospective testing.
184 Fair value hedges are used to manage the currency and or interest rate risks to which the fair value of certain assets and liabilities Company are exposed.
Changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recognised in the income statement, along with any changes in the relevant balance sheet fair value of the underlying hedged asset or liability.
If such a hedge relationship is fide-designated, fair value movements on the 185 derivative continue to be taken to the income statement while any fair value adjustments made to the underlying hedged item to that Accounting policies date are amortised through the income statement over its remaining life using the effective interest rate method.
of the company Cash flow hedges are used to hedge the foreign currency risk of highly probable future foreign currency cash flows, as well as the 187 Notes to the cash flow risk from changes in exchange or interest rates.
The effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedges is recognised in other company financial comprehensive income, while any ineffective part is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts recorded in other comprehensive statements income are recycled to the income statement in the same period in which the underlying foreign currency or interest exposure affects 190 the income statement.
Principal group Net investment hedges take the form of either foreign currency borrowings or derivatives.
Foreign exchange differences arising companies on translation of net investments are recorded in other comprehensive income and included in the exchange reserve.
Liabilities used ashedging instruments are revalued at closing exchange rates and the resulting gains or losses are also recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent that they are effective, with any ineffectiveness taken to the income statement.
Foreign exchange contracts hedging net investments are carried at fair value.
Effective fair value movements are recognised in other comprehensive income, with any ineffectiveness taken to the income statement.
Provisions Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount.
A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the group has a present legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are calculated on a discounted basis.
The carrying amounts of provisions are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate.
