Accounting policies of the company Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, modified to include revaluations to fair value of certain financial instruments, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and UK GAAP.
By virtue of section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the company is exempt from presenting a profit and loss account and disclosing employee numbers and staff costs.
The company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under the provisions of FRS 1 Revised 1996 and the exemption contained in FRS 8 and has not separately disclosed transactions with wholly owned subsidiary undertakings.
The following paragraphs describe the significant accounting policies under UK GAAP, which have been consistently applied.
Investments Investments in subsidiaries are stated at their historical cost i. e. the fair value of the consideration given by the company less, where appropriate, impairment provisions for any permanent decrease in value.
The carrying amounts of the companys investments are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is an indication of impairment.
If such an indication exists, then the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
Losses are recognised in profit or loss and reflected in an allowance against the carrying value.
When a subsequent event causes the amount of impairment loss to decrease, the decrease in impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss.
Dividends paid and received The interim dividend is included in the financial statements in the year in which it is approved by the directors, and the final dividend in the year in which it is approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting.
Dividends received are included in the financial statements in the year in which they are receivable.
Share-based payments employee benefits The fair value of equity settled share options and share grants is initially measured at grant date based on the binomial or Monte Carlo models and is charged to the profit and loss account over the vesting period.
For equity settled shares the credit is included in retained earnings in equity whereas for cash settled share-based payments a liability is recognised in the balance sheet, measured initially at the fair value of the liability.
For cash settled share options and share grants, the fair value of the liability is remeasured at the end of each reporting period until the liability is settled, and at the date of settlement, with any changes in the fair value recognised in the profit and loss account.
Cancellations of share options are treated as an acceleration of the vesting period and any outstanding charge is recognised in operating profit immediately.
Shares of Diageo plc held by the company for the purpose of fulfilling obligations in respect of various employee share plans around the group are deducted from equity in the balance sheet.
Any surplus or deficit arising on the sale of the Diageo plc shares held by the company is included as a movement in equity.
Where the company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries, it recharges the cost to the relevant group company.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at closing rates at the balance sheet date.
Pensions and other post employment benefits Diageo operates a number of defined benefit pension plans.
It is not possible to allocate the assets and liabilities of these pension plans between individual companies and therefore the company accounts for them as defined contribution plans.
Contributions payable in respect of defined contribution plans are charged to operating profit as incurred.
Details of the UK Diageo Pension Scheme are provided in the consolidated financial statements.
The company operates a number of post employment benefit plans which are unfunded.
For these plans, the amount charged in the profit and loss account is equivalent to the expected increase in the plans liabilities over the year.
Any changes in the liabilities over the year due to changes in assumptions or experience within the plans are recognised in shareholders equity.
The liability recognised on the balance sheet represents the present value of the obligations under the plans, net of related deferred tax.
Taxation Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
This requires an estimation of the current tax liability together with an assessment of the timing differences which arise as a consequence of different accounting and tax treatments.
Full provision for deferred tax is made for timing differences between the recognition of gains and losses in the financial statements and their recognition in tax computations.
The amount of deferred tax reflects the expected recoverable amount and is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using the basis of taxation enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
The company does not discount these balances.
Deferred tax assets are not recognised where it is more likely than not that the asset will not be realised in the future.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the tax positions are sustainable.
Once considered to be probable, management reviews each material tax benefit to assess whether a provision should be taken against full recognition of the benefit on the basis of potential settlement through negotiation and or litigation.
Any interest and penalties on tax liabilities are provided for in the tax charge.
Accounting policies of the company 185 Financial Financial instruments statements The companys accounting policies for financial instruments under UK GAAP, namely FRS 25 Financial instruments: presentation, FRS 26 125 Financial instruments: measurement and FRS 29 Financial instruments: disclosures, are the same as the groups accounting policies under Auditors report in IFRS, namely IAS 32 Financial instruments: presentation, IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement and IFRS 7 Financial respect of the Group instruments: disclosures.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value calculated using discounted 126 cash flow techniques based on market data applied consistently for similar types of instruments.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives Consolidated are reported in the income statement.
As consolidated financial information has been disclosed under IFRS 7 in note 19 to the income statement consolidated financial statements, the parent company is exempt from the disclosure requirements of FRS 29.
127 Consolidated statement of Provisions comprehensive Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount.
A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the company has a present income legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required 128 to settle the obligation.
Provisions are calculated on a discounted basis, where the difference from the original undiscounted provision is Consolidated material.
The carrying amounts of provisions are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate.
balance sheet 129 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 130 Consolidated statement of cash flows 131 Accounting policies of the group 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 183 Auditors report inrespect of thecompany 184 Company balance sheet 185 Accounting policies of the company 187 Notes to the company financial statements 190 Principal group companies 186 Diageo Annual Report 2013
