Additional information Independent Assurance Report of KPMG Audit Plc to Diageo plc for shareholders 192 KPMG Audit Plc was engaged by the Directors of Diageo plc Diageo to Responsibilities Legal proceedings provide limited assurance over selected sustainability information on pages The Directors of Diageo are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 34, 35 and 36 marked with the symbol contained within Diageos Annual the information and statements within it.
They are responsible for 192 Report for the year ended 30 June 2013. identification of stakeholders and material issues, for defining objectives with Related party This independent assurance report is made solely to Diageo in respect to sustainability performance, and for establishing and maintaining transactions accordance with the terms of our engagement.
Our work has been appropriate performance management and internal control systems from 192 undertaken so that we might state to Diageo those matters that we have which reported information is derived.
Share capital been engaged to state in this report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest Our responsibility is to express our conclusions in relation to the scope extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume any responsibility to which is set out below.
193 anyone other than Diageo for our work, for this independent assurance American report, or for the conclusions we have reached.
depositary shares 194 Assurance scope Articles of Selected sustainability Level of association information assurance Reporting criteria 197 Reliability of Limited Diageos Environmental Reporting Methodologies available here http: srreport2013.
com Exchange controls performance data for assurance .
aspx outlines the reporting criteria for the following selected sustainability data: the year ended 30 June greenhouse gases are based on the World Resources Institute World Business Council for Sustainable 197 2013 marked with the Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition Documents on display symbol on pages 34, otherwise referred as the WRI WBCSD Protocol 197 35 and 36 of the CO ratio are based on Diageos Environmental Reporting Methodologies 2 Taxation Annual Report.
water consumption are based on the Global Reporting Initiative GRI G3 Reporting Guideline water efficiency are based on Diageos Environmental Reporting Methodologies 199 waste to landfill are based on the GRI G3 Reporting Guidelines Warning to Biological Oxygen Demand BOD load to environment direct control are based on GRI G3 Reporting Guidelines shareholders share fraud 200 The scope of Diageos reporting that is subject to assurance, i. e. the subject Work performed Independent matter, was determined by Diageo in accordance with the materiality We planned and performed our work to obtain all the evidence, information Assurance Report of principles as defined by the GRI.
and explanations that we considered necessary in relation to the above KPMG Audit Plc to The extent of evidence gathering procedures for a limited assurance scope.
Our work included, but was not limited to, the following evidence Diageo plc engagement is less than for a reasonable assurance engagement.
Therefore, based procedures which are further explained below: a limited assurance opinion provides a lower level of assurance than a At Group level we: IBC reasonable assurance opinion.
Evaluated the suitability of reporting systems against the WRI GHG Glossary of terms and Protocol, the GRI Reporting Guidelines and Diageo Environmental US equivalents Inherent limitations Reporting Methodologies requirements Non-financial performance information is subject to more inherent Conducted interviews with management and other personnel at limitations than financial information, given the characteristics of the subject Diageo to obtain an understanding of the data collection process, matter and the methods used for determining such information.
The absence information flows and the systems and controls used to generate, of a significant body of established practice on which to draw allows for the aggregate and report the environmental data selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques which can Reviewed measurements, calculations, supporting information, quality result in materially different measurements and can affect comparability.
The controls systems, and procedures which support the environmental precision of different measurement techniques may also vary.
Furthermore, data for the year ended 30 June 2013.
Our work included verifying the the nature and methods used to determine such information, as well as the application of the appropriate CO emission factors for all sites 2 measurement criteria and the precision thereof, may change over time.
It is At site level we: important to read the selected sustainability information contained within Tested data from eleven different sites covering between 39% and 77% the Annual Report in the context of Diageos Environmental Reporting of the data for each data set in the year ended 30 June 2013.
Sites visited Methodologies available here http: srreport2013.
com were in: Uganda, Cameroon, Ethiopia, Tanzania, Turkey, Scotland and .
We performed desk top audits over two sites in Nigeria and one in the US Virgin Islands Greenhouse gases The sites were selected based on their risk factors and levels of In particular, inherent limitations affect the conversion of electricity and fuel materiality, such as their contribution to Group CO emissions, size, 2 usage to carbon emissions data.
Conversion of electricity and fuel usage to and location carbon emissions data is based upon, inter alia, emission factors derived by independent third parties as explained in Diageos Environmental Reporting Conclusion Methodologies.
Our assurance work has not included examination of the Based on the procedures performed, as described above, nothing has come derivation of those factors or of other third-party information.
Our assurance to our attention to suggest that the selected sustainability information, work has not included challenging the scientific work undertaken by marked with the symbol, on pages 34, 35 and 36 of the Annual Report for independent third parties when calculating these emission factors.
the year ended 30 June 2013, is not fairly stated, in all material respects, in accordance with Diageos Environmental Reporting Methodologies.
Basis of our work We conducted our work in accordance with ISAE 3000, which establishes Paul Nichols for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc the ethical and competence requirements for non-financial auditors.
We Chartered Accountants conducted our engagement with a multidisciplinary and appropriately London qualified team, experienced in non-financial assurance.
The team included 30 July 2013 specialists in auditing environmental and financial information and with experience in similar engagements.
Our independence ISAE 3000 requires that the practitioner complies with the requirements of 2 Parts A and B of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, which requires, among other requirements, that the assurance provider be independent of the assurance client, including not being involved in writing the Annual Report.
The Code also includes detailed requirements for practitioners regarding integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, 1 International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000: Assurance confidentiality and professional behaviour.
KPMG Audit Plc has systems and engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information, processes in place to monitor compliance with the Code and to prevent issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.
Our independence with the client is 2 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants was issued by the International reviewed on an annual basis.
Ethics Standards Board ISAE 3000 was issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants the IESBA Code.
