Directors Report Corporate Governance Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The directors are responsible for maintaining adequate Report and Accounts in accordance with applicable law and accounting records and sufficient internal controls regulations.
English company law requires the directors to to safeguard the assets of the Company and to take prepare financial statements for each financial year and reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud under that law, the directors have prepared the Group or any other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which and the Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 adopted by the European Union.
and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The directors are responsible for the The financial statements are required by law to give a maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and information included on the Companys website.
Legislation the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for the in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination period.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors of financial statements may differ from legislation in other are also required to: jurisdictions.
Each of the directors confirm that to the best of their Properly select and apply accounting policies: knowledge: Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and The Group and Company financial statements give a true understandable information: and and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the profit loss of the Group and Company, respectively: and specific requirements of IFRS is insufficient to enable The business and financial review contained in this users to understand the impact of particular transactions, Annual Report and Accounts includes a fair review of other events and conditions on the financial position and the development and performance of the business and financial performance.
the position of the Group and Company together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they In preparing both the Group and the Company financial face.
statements, suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently, and reasonable and prudent By Order of the Board judgements and estimates have been made.
Applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis as disclosed in the Statutory Information section of the Directors Report and Business Review.
Sebastian James Humphrey Singer Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director 20 June 2013 20 June 2013 Dixons Retail plc 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
