Notes to the Group financial statements 1.
Authorisation of financial statements and statement of Compliance with IFRS The financial statements of Dominos Pizza Group plc and its subsidiaries the Group for the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2013 were authorised for issue by the board of directors on 28 February 2014 and the balance sheet was signed on the Boards behalf by Lee Ginsberg.
Dominos Pizza Group plc is a public limited company the Company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 registration number 03853545.
The Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom and its registered address is 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes, MK6 4BB.
The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the Ofcial List of the FSA and traded on the main market of the LSE.
The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the period ended 29 December 2013.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in note 2.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation The Group's financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2013 and applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2013.
The Group financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except when otherwise indicated.
The Group financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Please refer to the Directors' report for further details.
The following amendments to standards are effective for this financial year but have not had significant impact on the reported financial performance or position of the Group.
IAS1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income Amendments to IAS 1 The amendments to IAS 1 introduce a grouping requirement for items presented in other comprehensive income.
Items that will be reclassied to profit or loss in the future have been presented separately from items that will never be reclassied.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurements IFRS 13 describes how to measure fair value when fair value is required or permitted by IFRS.
The Group does not have significant items valued at fair value, however, in line with the new standard, additional disclosures have been made to help users understand the valuation techniques used when fair value measurements are made.
Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the period.
The nature of estimation means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
The following judgements have had the most significant effect on amounts recognised in the financial statements: A key judgement was required in determining the impact of the acquisition of Dominos Leasing Limited during the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2009.
This has been accounted for as a business combination in accordance with IFRS3 and resulted in the recognition of deferred tax assets, contingent consideration and a credit to the 2009 income statement relating to the accounting for the excess of fair value of net assets over consideration.
See note 22 for further details.
Had this transaction been accounted for as an asset purchase, the deferred tax assets and day one exceptional credit in the income statement would not have been reected.
Instead, the Group tax charge would have benefitted from tax relief over the period of the leases acquired with Dominos Leasing Limited.
Determining whether an item is exceptional or not for certain items require the exercise of judgement when applying the Groups accounting policy in relation to this matter.
Franchisees within the Dominos Pizza system pay a percentage of their sales into a central fund designed to build store sales through increased public recognition of the Dominos Pizza brand the Fund.
The Fund is managed for the benefit of franchisees in the system with the objective of driving revenues for the franchised stores.
The Fund is used to pay for national marketing strategies and promotional plans.
The Fund is planned to operate at breakeven with any short-term timing surplus or deficit carried in the Group balance sheet.
As all Fund income is designated for specic purposes and does not result in a profit or loss for the Group, the revenue recognition criteria as outlined in our accounting policy are not met and therefore the income and expenses of the Fund are not included in the group income statement.
The assets and liabilities relating to the Fund are included in the appropriate headings in the Group balance sheet as the related legal, but not beneficial, rights and obligations rest with the Group.
These assets and liabilities include the short-term timing surpluses and deficits and any receivables and payables related to the Fund.
The cash ows relating to the Fund are included within Cash generated from operations in the Group statement of cash ows due to the close interrelationship between the Fund and the trading operations of the Group.
The following estimates are dependent upon assumptions which could change in the next financial year and have a material effect on the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities recognised at the balance sheet date: 84 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements 2.
Accounting policies continued Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued A key source of estimation uncertainty that has a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year is the estimation of share-based payment costs.
The estimation of share-based payment costs requires the selection of an appropriate valuation model, consideration as to the inputs necessary for the valuation model chosen and the estimation of the number of awards that will ultimately vest as can be seen in the current years charge following the resignation of the Groups CEO and the subsequent reduction in the charge following the lapse of options, inputs for which arise from judgements relating to the probability of meeting non-market performance conditions and the continuing participation of employees.
The calculation of the Group's total tax charge necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be nally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority.
The final resolution of certain of these items may give rise to material income statement and or cash ow variances.
Residual values and useful lives are determined with reference to manufacturers guidelines, past experience and market trends.
If useful lives were shorter than estimated a reassessment of the future depreciation charge may be required.
Useful lives are reassessed annually which may lead to an increase or reduction in depreciation accordingly.
Determining the fair value of acquired intangible assets and goodwill acquired in business combinations requires the use of estimates regarding the value of the intangible assets and deferred consideration payable in particular.
These values are determined using discounted cash ows based on latest approved budgets which necessarily include estimates concerning factors such as levels of sales and timing of store openings.
Subsequent impairment reviews also require the use of estimates to value the cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
These value in use calculations are re-run on an annual basis for goodwill or when there is an indicator of impairment for tangible and intangible xed assets to determine whether there is any impairment to the carrying value of assets arising from business combinations.
Basis of consolidation The full year consolidated financial statements incorporate the results and net assets of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to the nearest Sunday to 31 December each year.
The interim results are prepared for the first 26 weeks of the relevant full period.
Basis of consolidation from 1 January 2010 Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
The financial statements of subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company and are based on consistent accounting policies.
All inter-company transactions and balances between Group entities, including unrealised profits arising from them, are eliminated upon consolidation.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it i derecognises the assets including goodwill and liabilities of the subsidiary: ii derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest: iii derecognises the cumulative translation differences and any gains on losses on transactions with owners in their capacity as owners recorded in equity: iv recognises the fair value of any investment retained: vi recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss: vii reclassies the parents share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to profit or loss or retained earnings, as appropriate.
Non-controlling interests represent the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly and indirectly, to the parent company and is presented separately within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from equity attributable to owners of the parent.
Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the noncontrolling interest even if that results in a deficit balance.
Interests in associates and joint ventures The Groups interests in its associates, being those entities over which it has significant inuence and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
The Group has also entered into a number of contractual arrangements with other parties which represent joint ventures.
These take the form of agreements to share control over other entities.
Where the joint venture is established through an interest in a company, the Group recognises its interest in the entities assets and liabilities using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment in an associate or joint venture is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate or joint venture, less distributions received and less any impairment in value of individual investments.
The Groups income statement reects the Groups share of the associate or joint ventures results after tax.
The Group statement of changes in equity reects the Groups share of any income and expense recognised by the associate or joint venture outside profit and loss.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate or joint venture, representing the excess of the cost of the investment compared to the Groups share of the net fair value of the associate or joint ventures identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, is included in the carrying amount of the associate or joint venture and is not amortised.
To the extent that the net fair value of the associate or joint ventures identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are greater than the cost of the investment, a gain is recognised and added to the Groups share of the associate or joint ventures profit or loss in the period in which the investment is acquired.
Financial statements of associates and joint ventures are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used in line with those of the Group: to take into account fair values assigned at the date of acquisition and to reect impairment losses where appropriate.
Adjustments are also made in the Groups financial statements to eliminate the Groups share of unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 85 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Foreign currencies Foreign operations The income and expenses of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the spot rate on the transaction date.
The balance sheet of the overseas subsidiary undertaking is translated into Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are included in other comprehensive income and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed.
The Group utilised the exemption available in IFRS 1 whereby cumulative translation differences were deemed to be zero at 1 January 2006 the date of transition to IFRS.
Foreign currency transactions Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement for the period.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations from 1 January 2010 Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at the acquisition date fair value, and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
The choice of measurement of non-controlling interest, either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identiable net assets, is determined on a transaction by transaction basis.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classication and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of any contingent consideration deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39, either in profit or loss or in other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classied as equity, it should not be re-measured until it is nally settled within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest and, where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the net identiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the business combination.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to the business combinations, such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition remuneration arrangements, are accounted for separately from the business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs.
Identiable intangible assets meeting either the contractual-legal or separability criterion are recognised separately from goodwill.
Contingent liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisition-date fair value can be measured reliably.
If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is lower than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business acquired, the difference is recognised in profit and loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combinations is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units or groups of cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and will not be larger than an operating segment before aggregation.
When goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation, when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
86 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements 2.
Accounting policies continued Intangible assets Computer software Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment loss.
Externally acquired computer software and software licences are capitalised at the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specic software.
Internally developed computer software programs are capitalised to the extent that costs can be separately identied and attributed to particular software programs, measured reliably, and that the asset developed can be shown to generate future economic benets.
These assets are considered to have nite useful lives and are amortised on a straight line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of each of the assets, considered to be between three and five years.
Franchise fees Franchise fees are fees paid towards the acquisition of the Master Franchise for the markets in which the Group operate.
These are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment loss.
The useful economic lives of the assets are considered to be the life of the Master Franchise Agreement they relate to which is typically 30 years.
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment assets are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment in value.
Cost comprises the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset and includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost of the assets to their residual values, on a straight-line method on the following bases: Freehold land Not depreciated Freehold buildings 50 years Assets under construction Not depreciated Leasehold improvements Over the life of the lease Fixtures and ttings Over 5 to 10 years Supply Chain Centre equipment Over 3 to 30 years The assets residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, on an annual basis.
The majority of assets within Supply Chain Centre equipment are being depreciated over ten years or more.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benets are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is included in the income statement in the year that the asset is derecognised.
All items of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Prepaid short leasehold costs Prepaid short leasehold property costs are classied as current and non-current prepayments.
On initial recognition these assets are held at cost and subsequently at amortised cost over the length of the lease.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 87 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets are classied as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through sale rather than continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met if a sale is expected to materialise within twelve months after the balance sheet date and the asset is available for immediate disposal in its present condition.
Non-current assets classied as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
After classication as assets held for sale, no further depreciation is provided for on the assets.
Leases Group as lessee Leases are classied as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group.
All other leases are classied as operating leases.
Assets held as finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments during the lease term at the inception of the lease.
Lease payments are apportioned between the reduction of the lease liability and finance charges in the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of interest in the remaining balance of the liability.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the assets and the lease term.
Assets leased under operating leases are not recorded on the balance sheet.
Rental payments are charged directly to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives, primarily up-front cash payments or rent-free periods, are capitalised and spread over the period of the lease term.
Payments made to acquire operating leases are treated as prepaid lease expenses and amortised over the life of the lease.
Group as lessor Assets leased out under operating leases are included in property, plant and equipment and depreciated over their useful lives.
Rental income, including the effect of lease incentives, is recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Where the Group transfers substantially all the risks and benets of ownership of the asset, the arrangement is classied as a finance lease and a receivable is recognised for the initial direct costs of the lease and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Finance income is recognised in the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of return on the remaining net investment in the lease.
Impairment of assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the asset.
Impairment losses on continuing operations are recognised in the income statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Such reversal is recognised in profit or loss.
After such a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, for which it is probable that an outow of economic benefit will be required to settle the obligation and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably measured.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash ows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cashows where the impact of discounting ismaterial.
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it.
The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of theentity.
Present obligations arising under onerous lease contracts are recognised and measured as provisions.
An onerous contract is considered to exist when the Group has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benets expected to be received under it.
88 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements 2.
Accounting policies continued Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on a first in, first out basis.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to disposal.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables, which generally have 7 28 days terms, are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount.
Provision is made when it is likely that the balance will not be recovered in full.
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is considered remote.
The Group provides interest free loans to assist franchisees in the opening of new stores, the difference between the present value of loan recognised and the cash advanced has been capitalised as an intangible asset in recognition of the future value that will be generated via the royalty income and Supply Chain Centre sales that will be generated.
These assets are amortised over the life of new franchise agreement of 10years.
National advertising fund In addition to franchise fees, franchisees pay contributions which are collected by the Group for specic use within the National advertising fund.
The Group operates the funds on behalf of the franchisees with the objective of driving revenues for their stores.
The fund is specically used to pay for marketing and advertising.
The fund is planned to operate at breakeven with any short term timing surplus or deficit carried in the Group balance sheet within working capital.
As all fund contributions are designated for specic purposes and do not result in a profit or loss for the Group, revenue recognition criteria are not met and therefore the income and expenses of the fund are not included in the Group income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Obligations for loans and borrowings are recognised when the Group becomes party to the related contracts and are measured initially at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in finance revenue and finance cost.
Income taxes Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is recognised using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the tax bases and the accounting bases of assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax is calculated on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences, with the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future: and deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or losses can be utilised.
Income tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income or to equity, in which case the income tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income or equity respectively.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when the Group has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets and liabilities and the deferred tax relates to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction on either the same taxable entity, or on different taxable entities which intend to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously in each future period in which significant amounts of deferred tax liabilities are expected to be settled orrecovered.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modied, such an exchange or modication is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 89 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Pensions The Group contributes to the personal pension plans of certain staff.
The contributions are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Any contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date are included as an accrual at that date.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Capital reserve own shares Dominos Pizza Group plc shares held by the Company and its Employee benefit Trust EBT are classied in shareholders equity as Capital reserve own shares and are recognised at cost.
No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement on the purchase or sale of such shares.
The EBT has waived its entitlement to dividends.
The Group will meet the expenses of the EBT as and when they fall due.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benets will ow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration net of returns, rebates and value-added taxes.
The following criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: Sale of goods Revenue from pizza delivery, Supply Chain Centre formerly known as Commissary and equipment sales is recognised on delivery to customers and franchisees.
Franchise fees The franchise fee is effectively a joining fee, it is non-refundable and no element of the franchise fee relates to subsequent services.
Revenue from franchisee fees is recognised when a franchisee opens a store for trading.
Royalties Royalties are based on Dominos Pizza store sales to customers and are recognised as the income is earned.
Rental income Rental income arising from leasehold properties is recognised on a straight line basis in accordance with the lease terms.
Finance income Interest income is recognised as the interest accrues, using the effective interest method.
Finance lease interest income is recognised as set out in the leasing accounting policy.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are generally expensed as incurred.
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset are capitalised while the asset is being constructed as part of the cost of that asset.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other finance costs that the Group incurs.
The policy is adopted for all assets that meet the denition of qualifying assets under IAS 23.
Capitalisation of borrowing costs should commence when: expenditures for the asset and borrowing costs are being incurred: and activities necessary to prepare the asset for its intended use are in progress.
Capitalisation of borrowing costs ceases when the asset is substantially ready for its intended use.
If active development is interrupted for an extended period, capitalisation is suspended.
When construction occurs piecemeal and use of each part is possible as construction continues, capitalisation for each part ceases on substantial completion of that part.
For borrowing associated with a specic asset, the actual borrowing costs less any investment income on temporary investment of those borrowings are capitalised.
To the extent funds are borrowed generally and used for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset, the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation shall be determined by applying a capitalisation rate to the expenditure on that asset.
The capitalisation rate shall be the weighted average of the borrowing costs applicable to the borrowings of the entity that are outstanding during the period, other than borrowings made specically for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset.
Exceptional items The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income statement, those material items of income and expense which, because of the nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess better trends in financial performance.
90 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements 2.
Accounting policies continued Share-based payments The Group provides benets to employees including Directors in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services as consideration for equity instruments equity-settled transactions.
The cost of the equity-settled transactions with employees and Directors is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair values of employee share option plans are calculated using the Black-Scholes and Binomial models.
In valuing equity settled transactions, no account is taken of any service and performance vesting conditions, other than performance conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
Any other conditions which are required to be met in order for an employee to become fully entitled to an award are considered to be non-vesting conditions.
Like market performance conditions, non-vesting conditions are taken into account in determining the grant date fair value.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions and or service conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Directors best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest on achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vested as described above.
The movement in the cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with the corresponding increase inequity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modied or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modication, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modied award, both as measured on the date of the modication.
No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
This includes any where non-vesting conditions within the control of either the entity or the employee are not met.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modication of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
All cancellations of equity-settled transaction awards are treated equally.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share further details are given in note 13.
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 in respect of equity-settled awards so as to apply IFRS 2 only to those equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested before 3 January 2005.
New standards and interpretations not applied At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU, none of which are anticipated to signicantly impact the Groups results or assets and liabilities and are not expected to require significant disclosure.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Effective date 1 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classication and Measurement 1 January 2017 IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Investment Entities Amendment 1 January 2014 IFRS 11 Joint arrangements, IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2014 International Accounting Standards IAS Amendment to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2014 IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets Amendments to IAS 36 1 January 2014 1 Whilst the IASB have not issued a mandatory effective date, they have tentatively decided that it will not be mandatory for periods earlier than those starting on 1 January 2017. www.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 91 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 3.
Revenue Revenue recognised in the income statement is analysed as follows: 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Royalties, corporate store sales and sales to franchisees 253,686 226,053 Rental income on leasehold and freehold property 15,057 14,121 Finance lease income 159 350 268,902 240,524 4.
Segmental information For management purposes, the Group is organised into four geographical business units, based on the territories governed by the Master Franchise Agreement MFA : the United Kingdom, Ireland, Germany and Switzerland.
These are considered to be the Group's operating segments as the information provided to the chief operating decision makers, who are considered to be the Executive Directors of the Board, is based on these territories.
Revenue included in each includes all sales royalties, Supply Chain Centre sales, rental income and finance lease income made to franchise stores and by corporate stores located in that segment.
Segment results for the Ireland segment include both the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland as both of these territories are served by the same Supply Chain Centre.
Management monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Segment performance is evaluated based on operating profit or loss.
Group nancing including finance costs and finance revenue and income taxes are managed on a group basis and are not allocated to operating segments.
Unallocated assets include cash and cash equivalents and taxation assets.
Unallocated liabilities include the bank revolving facility, bank loans, deferred consideration and taxation liabilities.
At At 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Deferred tax asset 9,417 12,533 Cash and cash equivalents 31,597 21,975 Unallocated assets 41,014 34,508 Deferred consideration Dominos Leasing 7,326 8,161 Current tax liabilities 3,323 4,985 Deferred tax liabilities 167 1,111 Bank revolving facility 29,814 29,737 Bank loans 13,000 12,035 Unallocated liabilities 53,630 56,029 92 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements 4.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 93 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 5.
Group operating profit This is stated after charging: 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2,811 2,535 Amortisation of prepaid lease charges 206 198 Amortisation of intangible assets 2,781 1,985 Total depreciation and amortisation expense 5,798 4,718 Operating lease payments minimum lease payments land and buildings 16,518 14,747 plant, machinery and vehicles 3,021 2,721 Total operating lease payments recognised in the income statement 19,539 17,468 Loss on disposal of non-current assets 12 Impairment loss recognised on non-current assets 19,599 243 Net foreign currency loss 653 107 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 125,060 105,542 6.
Auditors remuneration The Group paid the following amounts to its auditors in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for other services provided to the Group: 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Audit of the financial statements 109 122 Audit of subsidiaries 60 59 Total audit 169 181 Audit related assurance services 30 16 Total non-audit services 16 Total fees 199 197 of which 2,000 2012: 2,000 relates to the Company.
Impairments The following impairment charges have been recognised in the period in relation to the German business: Amount Item impaired 000 Master Franchise Agreement MFA and related costs 9,267 Corporate stores 4,945 Goodwill 2,928 Property, plant and equipment 2,164 Website and domain costs 295 19,599 German Master Franchise Agreement MFA and related costs The performance in the period for the German business has been below expectations, particularly in respect of the corporate stores.
As set out in the Strategic Report, the Group has therefore taken the decision to transition all but one of its corporate stores across to franchisee ownership and to proceed more cautiously with its expansion in Germany, opening fewer stores than initially expected and reducing its expectations for sales and profit growth.
As a result of this, management now expects the German business to break even later than originally anticipated and has therefore re-assessed the carrying value of its German MFA.
In order to do this, management has prepared updated financial budgets for the next five years, taking into account the following key considerations: Lower average weekly unit sales AWUS growth for existing stores than initially anticipated, based on actual trends observed during the period and the actual AWUS achieved.
This has been partially offset by transferring the stores to franchisee ownership, which is expected to have a positive impact on AWUS, as compared the performance of the stores when they were under corporate ownership Lower AWUS expectations for new stores, based on the performance of new stores opened in the period.
Again, new stores will be operated as franchise stores, rather than corporate stores, and management therefore expects future new store AWUS to be higher than the AWUS of the new stores opened during the period Reduced store openings, due to the fact that the Group will not operate corporate stores in the future, focussing instead on a pure franchise model, establishing viable store level economics and attracting suitably experienced, well-funded franchisees Higher labour costs, as a result of actual labour costs experienced in the period and also the anticipated increase in the minimum wage, which is expected to be rolled out across Germany in the future 94 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements 7.
Impairments continued Management then performed a value in use calculation for the MFA, using these updated five year budgets.
Cash ows beyond five years for the remaining term of the MFA were then extrapolated based on the long term average growth rate for Germany of 1.4%.
These projected cash ows were then discounted using a discount rate of 13%.
As a result of updating its value in use calculation, management has determined that the carrying value of the MFA is fully impaired and has recorded an impairment charge of 9,267,000 as an operating exceptional item within the Group Income Statement.
German corporate stores The Group also carried out analysis to test for impairment in the carrying value of property, plant and equipment that related to the 15 corporate stores in Germany prior to the transition detailed in note 8 below.
A value in use calculation was performed on the German CGU as noted below, using the revised five year sales budgets referred to above and factoring in cost increases in a number of areas, as a result of certain costs notably labour costs being higher than originally expected.
These cash ows were not extrapolated beyond the initial ten year period, given the expected useful life of the assets concerned.
The discount rate used to discount the forecast cash ows was 13%.
As a result of this analysis, the Group has recognised an impairment charge of 4,945,000 against the carrying value of its property, plant and equipment in the 15 stores.
This has been recorded as an operating exceptional item within administrative costs in the Group Income Statement.
Property, plant & equipment Given the reduced sales, profit and cash ow expectations for the German CGU, management has also assessed the carrying value of its property, plant and equipment for impairment, using the revised budgets referred to above.
As a result of this assessment, management considers the carrying value of its Supply Chain Centre assets and also a number of assets at its Dsseldorf head ofce to be fully impaired and has recorded an impairment charge of 2,164,000 as an operating exceptional item within the Group Income Statement.
Website and domain costs Management has also assessed the carrying value of capitalised website and development costs, given the reduced cash ow expected to be generated by the business.
Following this review, management has determined that these assets are fully impaired and has recorded an impairment charge of 295,000 as an operating exceptional item within the Group Income Statement.
German goodwill impairment The Group is obliged to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, due to the goodwill being deemed to have an indefinite useful life.
In order to perform this test, management is required to compare the carrying value of the relevant cash generating unit CGU including the goodwill with its recoverable amount.
For these purposes, management considers the Germany business segment to be the most appropriate, separately identiable CGU, as the cash ows generated by its assets are largely independent from the rest of the Group and the business is not monitored by management at a lower level of disaggregation.
In order to identify the carrying value of the CGU, management has taken the German CGU, adjusting for any impairment already recognised in respect of assets other than goodwill and notionally grossing up the goodwill element to include the amount of goodwill attributable to the non-controlling interest.
To assess the recoverable amount of the CGU, management performed a value in use calculation, based on the revised five year sales budgets referred to above and extrapolating cash ows beyond five years based on the long term average growth rate for Germany of 1.4%.
As a result of comparing the carrying value of the CGU with its recoverable amount, management has determined that the carrying value of the German goodwill is fully impaired and has recorded an impairment charge of 2,928,000 as an operating exceptional item within the Group Income Statement.
In all cases noted above, a reasonably possible change in assumptions would not result in a reduced impairment.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 95 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 8.
Exceptional items a Recognised as part of operating profit 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Acquisition costs and restructuring costs relating to Dominos Pizza Switzerland 42 2,365 Transition of German corporate stores 1,981 Amounts receivable in Germany 3,438 Acquisition costs and one off costs relating to new UK joint ventures 152 620 Restructuring and reorganisation costs 1,119 800 Onerous lease provision 949 525 Dominos Leasing deferred consideration 324 Impairment costs see note 7 19,599 243 27,520 4,553 Acquisition costs and restructuring costs relating to Dominos Pizza Switzerland Costs of 2,365,000 were incurred during the period to 30 December 2012 in relation to the acquisition and restructuring of Dominos Pizza Switzerland.
This included the recognition of a 1,347,000 provision for restructuring costs and one-off costs relating to the acquisition of 1,018,000.
During the period to 29 December 2013, 42,000 of this provision was released due to changes to the restructuring plan.
This credit has been recognised as exceptional to be consistent with where the original cost was recognised.
Transition of German corporate stores In July 2013, the Group took a decision to transition all but one of the corporate stores held in Germany to franchisees, given the poor performance of the corporate stores.
One of these agreements was with an existing franchisee of both the UK and Germany to sell five of the poorest performing stores in Dsseldorf.
As part of this agreement and in recognition that the Group were exiting loss making stores, the Group has entered into a contract that is considered onerous in nature due to the financial commitments made to the franchisee.
The Group has also recognised a further onerous service contract with a supplier in Germany.
Following the transition of the corporate stores, it has been recognised that the current contract is not suitable for the remaining business and, as such, the Group will seek to exit from the contract as soon as possible.
Therefore, the Group has recognised a charge through the exceptionals line.
The Group has also recognised other exceptional costs predominantly in respect of adviser fees on the transition of the stores.
Amounts Receivable in Germany Management has also undertaken a review of amounts receivable in Germany, in light of the poor performance of this business compared to initial expectations and the issues faced by certain operators in the territory.
Following this review, management is not confident of recovering balances totalling 3,438,000 and has therefore established a provision for this amount, recognising the charge as an operating exceptional item within the Group Income Statement.
Acquisition costs and one off costs relating to new UK Joint Ventures Costs of 152,000 have been incurred during the period in relation to the acquisition and transfer of stores into two UK joint ventures with third partyfranchisees.
Restructuring and reorganisation costs In 2012, the Group undertook a review of all of its head ofce central overhead departments in order to create efficiencies and streamline processes.
As a result of this review, restructuring and reorganisation costs of 800,000 were incurred to 30 December 2012.
In the year to 29 December 2013, a further 184,000 of costs have been incurred, due to the continued roll out of the efficiency model.
A similar review was undertaken during the year for the German business.
This was largely driven by the decision to seek to transition all but one of the corporate stores across to franchisee ownership and to move the business to a fully franchised model which has allowed the Group to rationalise the German structure in a number of areas.
To date, the costs incurred in Germany amount to 935,000.
Onerous lease provision A provision of 1,210,000 was held as at 30 December 2012, in relation to the rent obligation for three Dominos stores closed in 2011 and other onerous leases identied.
During the current period, overall the provision has been increased by 278,000.
This includes an increase in respect of one Irish store, a reduction relating to one UK store and an additional onerous lease identied in the UK.
In addition, debtors of 154,000 relating to these onerous leases have been provided for.
A provision relating to onerous leases has also been recognised in Germany for 517,000 in relation to seven properties in the territory.
Two of the properties were occupied by poorly performing stores, which had been closed by the end of the period and management is not confident that sub-tenants will be identied who are willing to take on these properties at full rent.
The remaining five properties have previously been identied as sites for new stores, but the Group has not yet secured franchisees for these sites since the decision to have franchisees open new stores.
As a result, there is a risk that the sites will need to be sub-let and management is not confident that sub-leases will be secured at full rent.
As a result, a provision has been made to cover the potential shortfall in rent.
96 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements 8.
Exceptional items continued a Recognised as part of operating profit continued Dominos Leasing Limited deferred consideration A charge of 324,000 relating to the deferred consideration of Dominos Leasing Limited was incurred in the period.
Impairment The Group has incurred one-off impairment costs of 19,599,000 in the period, relating to its operations in Germany.
More detailed information on these impairment charges is provided in note 7.
In addition, an impairment of 243,000 was recognised in the period ended 30 December 2012 relating to assets at one closed UK store.
b Recognised below operating profit Profit on the sale of interest in associate During the period, the Group recognised a profit of 1,745,000 on the sale of its interest in Dominoid Limited of see note 19 for further details.
Unwinding of discount Included within finance costs is a charge of 236,000 2012: 286,000 relating to the unwinding of the discount on the deferred consideration payable in relation to the acquisition of Dominos Leasing Limited.
Change in tax rates During the period the Group has incurred an exceptional tax charge of 1,628,000 2012: 1,055,000 in relation to an adjustment to deferred tax following a change in tax law.
Please refer to note 12 for more detail.
The impact of these tax rate changes has been classied as exceptional due to its material impact on the Groups tax charge for the period.
This charge is reduced by 2,250,000 to become a credit of 622,000 due to the tax impact of other exceptional items disclosed above 2012: reduced by 314,000 to become a debit of 741,000.
Employee benefits and directors remuneration a Employee benefits expense 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Wages and salaries 27,390 20,904 Social security costs 3,470 2,346 Other pension costs 569 457 Share-based payment charge 613 2,357 32,042 26,064 The average monthly number of employees during the year was made up as follows: 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 Administration 277 219 Production and distribution 257 253 Corporate stores 551 258 1,085 730 b Directors remuneration 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Directors remuneration 1,527 2,010 Aggregate contributions to dened contribution pension schemes 105 102 Number of directors accruing benets under: Dened contribution schemes 2 2 Additional information regarding directors remuneration is included in the Directors remuneration report on pages 56 to 71. www.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 97 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 10.
Finance income 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Bank interest receivable 72 84 Franchisee loans 134 81 Other interest 270 359 Unwinding of discount non exceptional 313 82 Total finance income 789 606 The finance income relates to financial assets at amortised cost.
Total interest on financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, including finance lease revenue is 946,000 2012: 956,000.
Finance expense 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Bank loan in relation to the EBT 206 181 Bank revolving credit facility interest payable 706 528 Other interest payable 165 72 Unwinding of discount exceptional 236 286 Unwinding of discount non exceptional 27 346 1,340 1,413 The finance expense relates to financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Total interest on financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss, including loans cost related to DP Capital Limited and Dominos Leasing Limited reported within cost of sales is 1,486,000 2012: 1,710,000.
Taxation a Tax on profit on ordinary activities Tax charged in the income statement 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Current income tax: UK corporation tax current period 7,646 8,387 adjustment in respect of prior periods 440 475 7,206 7,912 Income tax of overseas operations on profits for the period 375 364 Total current income tax 7,581 8,276 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 97 2,586 Effect of change in tax rate 1,628 1,055 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 161 145 Total deferred tax 1,886 3,786 Tax charge in the income statement 9,467 12,062 The tax charge in the income statement is disclosed as follows: Income tax expense on continuing operations 9,467 12,062 Tax relating to items credited charged to equity: Reduction in current tax liability as a result of the exercise of share options 662 856 Origination and reversal of temporary differences in relation to unexercised share options 286 63 Tax credit in the Group statement of changes in equity 376 793 There is no tax impact in relation to the foreign exchange differences in the statement of comprehensive income.
98 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements 12.
Taxation continued b Reconciliation of the total tax charge The tax expense in the income statement for the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2013 is higher than the statutory corporation tax rate of 23.3% 2012:24.5%.
The differences are reconciled below: 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 profit before taxation 21,590 42,369 Accounting profit multiplied by the UK statutory rate of corporation tax of 23.3% 2012: 24.5% 5,030 10,380 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 3,199 597 Accounting depreciation not eligible for tax purposes 196 201 Adjustments relating to prior years 277 330 Adjustment to deferred tax in respect of change in tax rate 1,628 1,055 Other 1 457 Tax rate differences 310 298 Total tax expense reported in the income statement 9,467 12,062 Effective tax rate % 43.8 28.5 Effective tax rate pre exceptional items % 21.1 24.2 In his budget on 20 March 2013, the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced further changes to the corporation tax rates, which will have an effect on the Groups current and future tax position.
The changes announced were further decreases to the standard rate of corporation tax, with the rate set to be reduced to 20%, effective 1 April 2015.
The reduction of the UK corporation tax rate to 23% from April 2013, 21% from 1 April 2014 and 20% from April 2015 had been substantively enacted during the year.
The effect of these changes to the UK tax system have been reected in the Groups financial statements for the 52 weeks ending 29December 2013 to the extent that they had been substantively enacted by that date.
c Temporary differences associated with Group investments At 29 December 2013, there was no recognised deferred tax liability 2012: nil for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of the Groups subsidiaries, or its associates, as there are no corporation tax consequences of the Groups UK, Irish or overseas subsidiaries or associates paying dividends to their parent companies.
There are also no income tax consequences for the Group attaching to the payment of dividends by the Group to its shareholders.
d Deferred tax The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: At At 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Deferred tax arising in the UK on non-capital items 9,194 12,360 Deferred tax arising in Ireland and the UK on capital gains 110 108 Deferred tax arising on acquisition of subsidiary in previous periods 166 Deferred tax arising on other overseas subsidiaries 830 9,250 11,422 At At 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Gross movement in the deferred income tax account Opening balance 11,422 15,271 Tax charge to equity 286 63 Income statement charge 1,886 3,786 Closing balance 9,250 11,422 Deferred tax arising in the UK on non-capital items Accelerated Share-based capital Lease Goodwill and payments allowances inducements amortisation Provisions Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 At 25 December 2011 762 15,111 253 13 236 16,349 Charge to equity 63 63 Credit charge to income 112 4,034 46 42 3,926 At 30 December 2012 811 11,077 207 13 278 12,360 Charge to equity 286 286 Charge credit to income 71 3,185 41 417 2,880 At 29 December 2013 454 7,892 166 13 695 9,194 www.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 99 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 12.
Taxation continued d Deferred tax continued A deferred tax asset of 9,194,000 2012: 12,360,000 has been recognised to the extent that future taxable profits are expected to be in excess of the profits arising from the reversal of existing taxable temporary differences.
The Group has tax losses of 233,000 2012: 824,000 which arose in relation to the Swiss business during the period and are available for offset against future taxable profits in Switzerland.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in relation to these taxable losses in Switzerland on the basis they are expected to be recovered in the near future.
In addition there are 1,128,000 of losses 2012: 940,000 that have arisen in Germany and Cyprus in current and prior periods which are available for offset against future taxable profits in these jurisdictions.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these losses due to the uncertain timing of the availability of future profits in these territories.
Taxable losses that have arisen in the period in the German branch of Domino's Pizza Germany Limited are available to group relieve amongst the UK Group and have been fully utilised.
There is no tax deduction for the goodwill which arose on the acquisition of Germany and Switzerland in previous years.
Deferred tax arising in Ireland and the UK on capital gains Accelerated Roll over capital relief allowances Total 000 000 000 At 25 December 2011 25 30 55 Credit charge to income 2 55 53 At 30 December 2012 23 85 108 Credit charge to income 1 3 1 At 29 December 2013 22 88 110 Deferred tax arising on other overseas subsidiaries 000 At 25 December 2011 1,023 Credit to income 193 At 30 December 2012 830 Credit to income 996 At 29 December 2013 166 Included within the above is a deferred tax asset of 233,000 2012: 173,000 in relation to the recognition of Switzerland tax losses and a deferred tax liability relating to accelerated capital allowances in Switzerland.
Deferred tax in respect of Switzerland cannot be offset against the deferred tax in respect of Germany as the Group does not have a legally enforceable right to offset these assets and liabilities due to them arising in differing territories.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would have been issued on the conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
The following reects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 profit for the period 12,123 30,307 Adjusted for non-controlling interests 5,445 603 profit attributable to owners of the parent 17,568 30,910 At At 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 No.
Basic weighted average number of shares excluding treasury shares 163,737,665 162,337,757 Dilutive potential ordinary shares: Employee share options 614,168 808,996 Reversionary interests 270,470 815,792 Diluted weighted average number of shares 164,622,303 163,962,545 Between the reporting date and the date of completion of these financial statements, the acquisition of the non-controlling interest of the German business has resulted in 880,000 ordinary shares being issued along with an option over 3,000,000 shares.
Please refer to note 37 for more information.
The performance conditions for reversionary interests granted over 1,021,684 2012: 4,243,340 shares and share options granted over 1,319,391 2012: 4,198,563 shares have not been met in the current financial period and therefore the dilutive effect of the number of shares which would have been issued at the period end have not been included in the diluted earnings per share calculation.
100 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements 13.
Earnings per share continued There are no share options excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation because they are anti dilutive 2012: nil.
See note 32 for further information on reversionary interests and share options.
Earnings per share pre-exceptional items The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income statement, those material items of income and expense which, because of the nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess better the trends in financial performance.
To this end, basic and diluted earnings from continuing operations per share is also presented on this basis and using the weighted average number of shares for both basic and diluted amounts as per the table above.
The amounts for earnings per share from continuing operations before exceptional items are as follows: 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 Basic earnings per share 24.0p 22.2p Diluted earnings per share 23.9p 22.0p Net profit before exceptional items and attributable to owners of the parent is derived as follows: 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 profit for the period 12,123 30,307 Adjusted for non-controlling interests 5,445 603 profit attributable to owners of the parent 17,568 30,910 Exceptional items after tax attributable to equity holders of the parent 21,805 5,073 Acquisition costs and restructuring costs relating to Dominos Pizza Switzerland 42 2,365 Transition of corporate stores in Germany 1,981 Receivables Germany 3,438 Acquisition costs and one off costs relating to new UK joint ventures 152 620 Restructuring and reorganisation 1,119 800 Onerous lease provision 949 525 Dominos leasing deferred consideration 324 Impairment 19,599 243 profit on the sale of associate and non current assets 1,745 507 Unwinding of discount 236 286 Impact of minority interest related exceptionals 3,584 Taxation impact 2,250 314 Change in corporation tax rate impact on deferred tax asset 1,628 1,055 profit before exceptional items attributable to owners of the parent 39,373 35,983 www.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 101 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 13.
Earnings per share continued Earnings per share pre-exceptional items, Germany and Switzerland 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 Basic earnings per share 25.8p 23.4p Diluted earnings per share 25.6p 23.2p Net profit before exceptional items, Germany and Switzerland attributable to owners of the parent is derived as follows: 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 profit before exceptional items attributable to owners of the parent 39,373 35,983 Items relating to Germany and Switzerland 2,445 1,695 Non-controlling interest 1,859 620 Germany loss 7,002 2,559 Switzerland loss 638 250 Tax Impact 3,336 494 profit before exceptional items, Germany and Switzerland attributable to owners of the parent 41,818 37,678 Shares on acquisition Basic 1,320,000 1,320,000 Diluted average number of shares 1,320,000 1,320,000 Basic weighted average number of shares excluding treasury shares 162,417,665 161,017,757 Diluted weighted average number of shares 163,302,303 162,642,545 14.
Dividends paid and proposed 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Declared and paid during the year: Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2012: 7.90p 2011: 6.80p 12,936 11,001 Interim dividend for 2013: 7.10p 2012: 6.60p 11,673 10,745 Dividends paid 24,609 21,746 Proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM not recognised as a liability at 29 December 2013 or 30 December 2012 Final dividend for 2013: 8.80p 2012: 7.90p 14,432 12,890 102 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements 15.
For details of the impairment of assets, which relates to Germany, please refer to note 7.
Capitalised interest Included within freehold land and buildings is an amount of 1,016,000 2012: 1,117,000 of capitalised interest, of which nil 2012: nil was capitalised in the current period and included with additions.
This interest relates to the revolving credit facility used to finance the building of the new Supply Chain Centre and head ofce.
Tax relief on capitalised interest is claimed in full in the period in which the interest is paid.
For details of property, plant and equipment pledged as security for liabilities see note 26. www.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 103 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 16.
Intangible assets Franchise Goodwill fees Software Other Total 000 000 000 000 000 Cost or valuation: At 25 December 2011 2,659 10,838 4,978 18,475 Additions 349 3,025 552 3,926 Disposal of subsidiary 7 7 Foreign exchange on translation 5 93 98 Reclassication from property, plant and equipment 195 195 Acquisition of subsidiary 1,603 2,870 7 4,480 At 30 December 2012 4,257 13,957 8,205 552 26,971 Additions 2,813 2,813 Disposals 39 39 Foreign exchange on translation 319 230 4 553 At 29 December 2013 4,576 14,187 11,022 513 30,298 Depreciation and impairment: At 25 December 2011 1,090 774 1,864 Provided during the year 400 1,555 30 1,985 Disposal of subsidiary 2 2 Foreign exchange on translation 20 20 Reclassication from property plant and equipment 52 52 At 30 December 2012 1,468 2,381 30 3,879 Provided during the year 347 2,384 50 2,781 Impairment 2,928 9,314 297 12,539 Foreign exchange on translation 131 3 128 At 29 December 2013 2,928 10,998 5,065 80 19,071 Net book value at 29 December 2013 1,648 3,189 5,957 433 11,227 Net book value at 30 December 2012 4,257 12,489 5,824 522 23,092 Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination or are established as a result of the business combination.
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows: At At 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Germany 2,617 Switzerland 1,648 1,640 1,648 4,257 The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from a value in use calculation.
The key assumptions for the valuations are those regarding discount rates, store openings and expected changes to level of sales in stores.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reect current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specic to the CGUs.
Growth rates are based on market growth forecasts.
Changes in levels of AWUS average weekly unit sales and store openings are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market.
The Group prepares cash ow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by management for the next five years and extrapolates cash ows for the remaining term of the based on the average long-term growth rate of 1.4% for Germany and 1.7% for Switzerland, which do not exceed the average long term growth rate for the relevant markets.
The rate used to discount the forecast cash ows from the Germany CGU is 13% and from the Swiss CGU is 12.5%.
Based on the value in use calculation performed in report of Germany, the Group has determined that the carrying values of its German MFA and goodwill are fully impaired and certain assets within software are also impaired.
Please refer to note 7 for further details.
The Group also has conducted a sensitivity analysis on the impairment test of each CGUs carrying value including reducing sales level and changing discount rates.
In respect of the German CGU, no reasonably expected change in the key assumptions to the valuation would give rise to a change in the impairment charge recognised.
In respect of the Swiss CGU, no reasonably expected change in the key assumptions to the valuation would give rise to an impairment charge.
Franchise fees consist of costs relating to the Master Franchise Agreement MFA for the UK and Ireland, Germany and Switzerland.
The UK and Ireland MFA runs into perpetuity, with a development clause which is renewable on a 10 year basis.
The German MFA has a term of 30 years and the addition in 2012 relates to the Swiss MFA, which also has a term of 30 years.
During the period ended 30 December 2012, the Group purchased from Dominos Pizza International Franchising Inc. an option to acquire the master franchise rights for Dominos Pizza in Austria for 217,000.
The option expires on 31 December 2014 and provides a further opportunity for growth by building on Dominos presence in mainland Europe.
An asset has been recognised in the year of 433,000 2012: 552,000 in relation to interest free loans given to franchisees to assist in the opening of new stores.
The difference between the present value of loan recognised and the cash advanced has been capitalised as an intangible asset in recognition of the future value that will be generated.
The amortisation of intangible assets is included within administration expenses in the income statement.
104 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements 17.
Prepaid operating lease charges At At 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Balance at the beginning of the period 1,696 841 Additions 22 1,050 Foreign exchange on translation 2 3 Amortisation 206 198 Balance at the end of the period 1,514 1,696 Analysed as follows: Non-current assets 1,286 1,479 Current assets 228 217 1,514 1,696 18.
Financial assets The balance shown in franchisee leasing consists of leases over store equipment granted to franchisees on terms of between one and five years bearing interest at xed rates of an average of 6.4% 2012: 7.1%.
Other leases were leases over assets which were acquired with Dominos Leasing Limited at the time the business was acquired.
These were fully paid up in the period, however during the period new franchisee leases were signed in Dominos Leasing Limited.
At 29 December 2013 At 30 December 2012 Franchisee Franchisee Other leasing Total leasing leases Total 000 000 000 000 000 Net investment in finance leases 2,636 2,636 3,026 2,610 5,636 Analysis of net investment in finance leases Current 1,108 1,108 1,048 2,610 3,658 Non-current 1,528 1,528 1,978 1,978 2,636 2,636 3,026 2,610 5,636 Future minimum payments receivable: At 29 December 2013 At 30 December 2012 Franchisee Franchisee Other leasing Total leasing leases Total 000 000 000 000 000 Not later than one year 934 934 1,173 2,729 3,902 After one year but not more than five years 1,895 1,895 2,077 2,077 2,829 2,829 3,250 2,729 5,979 Less: finance income allocated to future periods 193 193 224 119 343 2,636 2,636 3,026 2,610 5,636 The present value of minimum lease payments receivable is analysed as follows: At 29 December 2013 At 30 December 2012 Franchisee Franchisee Other leasing Total leasing leases Total 000 000 000 000 000 Not later than one year 1,108 1,108 1,048 2,610 3,658 After one year but not more than five years 1,528 1,528 1,978 1,978 2,636 2,636 3,026 2,610 5,636 19.
Investments in associates and joint ventures At At 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Investment in associates 1,006 1,514 Investment in joint ventures 5,152 4,731 6,158 6,245 a Investments in associates The Group has a 41% interest in Full House Restaurants Limited, a private company that manages pizza delivery stores in the United Kingdom.
This interest is accounted for as an associate as the Group has significant inuence but does not control the entity or have joint control.
In 2012, the Group owned 50% of the share capital of Dominoid Limited Dominoid, and Mungo Park Limited Mungo Park private companies that owned and operated 13stores in and around Edinburgh.
On 1 April 2013 the Group disposed of its interests in Dominoid and Mungo Park for cash consideration of 2,621,000 less transaction costs of 244,000.
Theshare of net assets held by the Group at the date of disposal was 632,000.
An exceptional gain of 1,745,000 has been recognised on this disposal.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 105 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 19.
"Investments in associates and joint ventures continued Summarised financial information for significant associates is aggregated below: At At 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Share of associates balance sheet: Current assets 836 564 Non current assets 1,731 2,388 Current liabilities 718 650 Non current liabilities 843 788 Share of net assets 1,006 1,514 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Share of associates revenue and profit: Revenue 6,566 8,622 profit after tax for the year 170 166 b Investments in Joint Ventures The Group has two UK joint ventures, with Domino's Pizza West Country Limited ""West Country"" and DP Shayban Limited ""DP Shayban""."
Both West Country and DP Shayban are accounted for as joint ventures as the Group has joint control through voting rights and share ownership as well as being party to a joint venture agreement, which ensures that strategic, financial and operational decisions relating to the joint venture activities require the unanimous consent of the two joint venture partners.
At 29 December 2013 At 30 December 2012 DP Shayban West Country Total DP Shayban West Country Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Share of joint ventures balance sheets: Current assets 2,044 410 2,454 214 330 544 Non current assets 2,036 3,015 5,051 1,969 3,026 4,995 Current liabilities 2,064 25 2,089 405 304 709 Non current liabilities 96 168 264 30 77 107 Share of net assets 1,920 3,232 5,152 1,748 2,975 4,723 52 weeks ended 29 December 2013 53 weeks ended 30 December 2012 DP Shayban West Country Total DP Shayban West Country Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Share of joint ventures revenue and profit: Revenue 5,761 4,078 9,839 199 305 503 profit after tax for the year 173 299 472 27 15 42 The Group has also invested in two further entities that are jointly controlled and therefore deemed to be joint ventures: Deutsche Dominoid GmbH and HJSPizza Deutschland GmbH.
Both entities were established in order to facilitate the opening of new stores in the German market.
Due to the start up nature of these entities, losses were incurred during the period in both entities that have exceeded the value of the Groups interest.
The Groups share ofunrecognised losses for the period to 29 December 2013 was: 294,000 for Deutsche Dominoid GmbH 2012: 210,000 32,000 for HJS Pizza Deutschland GmbH 2012: nil 106 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements 20. Business Combinations On 24 September 2012, the Group acquired the trade and assets of Dominos Pizza Switzerland AG into a wholly owned subsidiary, DP Cyco Switzerland Limited, and its wholly owned subsidiary, Domino's Pizza GmbH known collectively as 'Domino's Switzerland'.
These assets included the Master Franchise Agreement for the country which provides the Company with the exclusive right to operate and franchise Dominos Pizza stores in Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Luxembourg.
The fair values of the identiable assets and liabilities of Domino's Switzerland as at the date of acquisition were as follows: Fair value to the Group 000 Master franchise agreement 2,870 Other intangible assets 7 Property, plant & equipment 244 Inventory 143 Trade and other receivables 238 Cash and cash equivalents 7 Trade and other payables 463 Net assets acquired 3,046 Goodwill 1,603 Total acquisition cost 4,649 Discharged by: Cash consideration 3,562 Deferred consideration 1,087 4,649 Net cash outow arising on acquisition: Cash consideration 3,562 Less: cash and cash equivalent balances acquired 7 3,555 Under the terms of the acquisition the Group purchased the business of Dominos Switzerland for a maximum consideration of CHF 7,000,000 4,645,000 in cash plus an amount for the stock, cash in tills and cash and rent deposits for CHF 369,000 245,000.
This consideration is being paid in two tranches.
The first tranche of CHF 5,000,000 3,318,000 was payable on completion and the second tranche of up to CHF 2,000,000 1,327,000 is payable two years from the date of completion and will be dependent upon the sales performance of the twelve Dominos Pizza stores in Switzerland which were acquired at completion.
The fair value of the contingent consideration arrangement of 1,087,000 was estimated by applying a probability weighted average for a number of scenarios based on performance against budget.
The impact of discounting was considered but as it was not material the contingent consideration recognised is undiscounted.
The potential undiscounted amount of all future payments that the Group could be required to make under the contingent consideration arrangement is between nil and CHF 2,000,000 1,327,000.
The goodwill of 1,603,000 arising from the acquisition represents the opportunities in the three countries, together with the synergies obtainable through the economies of scale across the Group.
It has been allocated for impairment testing to the Swiss cash generating unit as described in note 16.
There is no tax deduction for the goodwill arising on the acquisition of Dominos Switzerland.
From the date of acquisition, Dominos Switzerland contributed 2,971,000 revenue and a loss of 254,000 pre-exceptional administration costs of 1,731,000.
If the combination had taken place at the beginning of the financial period the profit before tax excluding exceptional items would have been 45,780,000 and revenue from continuing operations would have been 250,702,000. www.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 107 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 21.
Inventories At At 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Raw materials 242 259 Finished goods and goods for sale 4,007 7,070 Total inventories at lower of cost or net realisable value 4,249 7,329 22.
Deferred and contingent consideration Deferred Contingent Total 000 000 000 At 25 December 2011 10,039 10,039 Acquisition of subsidiary 1,087 1,087 Paid during the period 2,164 2,164 Unwinding of discount 286 286 Foreign exchange movements 26 26 At 30 December 2012 8,161 1,113 9,274 Adjustment to brought forward 324 324 Paid during the period 1,395 1,395 Unwinding of discount 236 236 Foreign exchange movements 16 16 At 29 December 2013 7,326 1,129 8,455 At At 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Current 1,532 1,199 Non-current 6,923 8,075 Total 8,455 9,274 On 1 July 2009, the Group acquired 100% of the ordinary shares of Dresdner Kleinwort Leasing March 2 Limited Dominos Leasing, a private company based in England which provides funding in the form of finance leases to a number of corporate clients.
As a company with an established leasing trade, Dominos Leasing owns the leased equipment and is entitled to an on-going rental income from each lease for the remaining term of that lease and it is entitled to certain tax reliefs from its ownership of that equipment.
On acquisition, the tax reliefs available had a total value of 29,240,000 and a deferred consideration of 15,364,000 was payable, the amount and timing of which depends on the amount and timing of the benets to the Group arising from this tax relief.
The deferred consideration is payable until April 2016.
Finance costs reect the unwinding of the discount on the deferred consideration.
Therefore, while the cash ow statement reects lower tax paid as a result of this transaction, this is partly offset by investing cashow for the consideration paid.
During the period the Group has utilised 10,405,000 2012: 13,099,000 of the capital allowances which were acquired with Dominos Leasing.
The utilisation of these capital allowances reduces the value of the deferred tax asset which was recognised on acquisition, however, it results in no overall impact on the tax charge for the period as there is an equal and opposite reduction in the Groups corporation tax liability.
On 24 September 2012, the Group acquired the trade and assets of a business in Switzerland on which contingent consideration may be payable.
The fair value of contingent consideration at the time of acquisition was estimated to be 1,087,000 see note 20 and as at 29 December 2013 the fair valueis 1,129,000 due to foreign exchange movements.
The deferred consideration is a financial liability at fair value through profit or loss.
108 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements 23.
Trade and other receivables Included in non-current assets: At At 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures 1,938 2,565 Loans to franchisees 4,330 6,155 Other receivables 1,488 1,490 7,756 10,210 Included in current assets: At At 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Trade receivables 11,695 8,403 Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures 1,267 1,325 Loans to franchisees 3,395 3,193 Other receivables 8,349 12,603 Prepayments and accrued income 9,660 10,623 34,366 36,147 Financial assets at amortised cost.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies: At At 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Sterling 9,292 7,177 Euro 2,398 1,219 Swiss Franc 5 7 11,695 8,403 The Euro denominated receivables relate to franchisee receivables within the Groups Irish and German operations which have a euro functional currency.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 7 28 days terms.
As at 29 December 2013, trade receivables at nominal value of 1,574,000 2012: 160,000 were provided for.
During the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2013 bad debts of 154,000 were written off as part of the onerous lease exceptional costs 2012: nil.
These related to rentals due from commercial properties non-franchisee and have been included as exceptional within onerous lease costs note 8.
The ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: Neither past Past due but not impaired due nor Total impaired 30 days 30 days 000 000 000 000 As at 29 December 2013 11,695 5,269 1,692 4,734 As at 30 December 2012 8,403 5,687 1,246 1,470 Loans to franchisees Loans to franchisees are repayable within 1-5 years.
The loans are either interest free or bear interest on a quarterly basis at an average of 3.0% above LIBOR and are repaid in monthly or quarterly instalments.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 109 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 23.
Trade and other receivables continued Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures At At 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Amounts owed by associates 1,908 2,427 Amounts owed by joint ventures 1,297 1,463 3,205 3,890 Included within the balance due from associates are loan balances totalling 1,540,000 2012: 1,797,000 due from Full House Restaurants Limited and nil 2012: 211,000 due from Dominoid Limited following the disposal of the Groups interest during the year.
Included within the balance due from joint ventures are loan balances of 673,000 due from DP Shayban Limited 2012: 549,000 and 302,000 due from Dominos Pizza West Country Limited 2012: 277,000.
The terms of these loans are consistent with the loan terms provided to franchisees see above.
The remainder of the balance due from associates and joint ventures represents trading balances.
An analysis is provided below of the movement in trading and loan balances with associates and joint ventures: Trading Loan balance balance Total 000 000 000 At 25 December 2011 300 143 443 Movement in trading balance 447 447 Repayment of loan balance 261 261 Increase in loan balance 3,261 3,261 At 30 December 2012 747 3,143 3,890 Movement in trading balance 58 58 Repayment of loan balance 730 730 Increase in loan balance 387 387 Debts provided for 284 284 At 29 December 2013 689 2,516 3,205 The movement in the trading balance is included within the increase in receivables in cash generated from operations in the cash ow statement.
Other receivables Included in the current element of other receivables is the National Advertising Fund NAF balance of 4,379,000 2012: 5,562,000 due to the difference in timing between cashows of the marketing activities committed to by the fund and contributions received from franchisees.
Total contributions made to the fund during the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2013 were 25,443,000 2012: 23,323,000.
The outstanding balance of the NAF bears interest at 4.5% above Barclays Bank plc base rate.
Cash and cash equivalents At At 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Cash at bank and in hand 8,739 8,891 Short-term deposits 22,858 13,084 31,597 21,975 Cash is denominated in the following currencies: At At 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Sterling 29,491 19,483 Euro 1,766 1,999 Swiss Franc 340 493 31,597 21,975 110 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements 25.
Trade and other payables At At 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Trade payables 12,318 13,839 Other taxes and social security costs 3,144 3,730 Other payables 3,366 3,343 Accruals 21,374 20,771 40,202 41,683 Financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities: Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 7 30 day terms.
Other payables are non-interest bearing and have an average term of six months.
Financial liabilities At At 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Current Current instalments due on bank loans 13,000 Current instalments due on other loans 864 1,036 Current instalments due on non-recourse loans 2,604 Current instalments due on finance leases 96 101 13,960 3,741 Non current Bank revolving facility 29,814 29,737 Non-current instalments due on bank loans 12,035 Non-current instalments due on other loans 3,439 3,953 Non-current instalments on finance leases 38 127 33,291 45,852 Banking facilities Cash at bank earns interest at oating rates based on daily deposit rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates depending on the balance on deposit.
The interest rate applicable to the short-term deposits during the financial period was 0.3% 2012: 0.25%.
Bank revolving facility On 1 August 2012, the Group completed the renancing of the existing 25,000,000 revolving credit facility with Barclays Bank plc, increasing it to a 30,000,000 facility.
The facility was fully drawn down at 29 December 2013 and has a five year term.
The interest is charged at 1.35% 2012: 1.35% per annum above LIBOR in addition to a 0.5% utilisation fee.
Arrangement fees of 298,000 directly incurred in relation to the re-nancing were included in the carrying value of the facility and are being amortised over the term of the facility: at 29 December 2013, amortisation of 117,000 has been recognised against the carrying value of the facility.
The facility is secured by an unlimited cross guarantee between the Company, Dominos Pizza UK & Ireland Limited, DPG Holdings Limited, DP Realty Limited, DP Pizza Limited and DP Group Developments Limited as well as negative pledges given by the Company, Dominos Pizza UK & Ireland Limited, DPG Holdings Limited, DP Realty Limited, DP Pizza Limited and DP Group Developments Limited.
On 31 January 2014, the Group increased this facility further to a 45,000,000 facility being a 30,000,000 revolving credit facility and 15,000,000 term loan in order to repay the Employee benefit Trust loan as described below.
Interest charged on the additional facility is 1.10% per annum above LIBOR and the term loan matures on 31 January 2015.
Bank overdraft facility On 5 October 2012, the Company obtained an overdraft facility from Barclays Bank plc for a maximum limit of 5,000,000 for working capital purposes.
Theinterest is charged at 1.25% per annum above LIBOR.
At 29 December 2013 there was nil drawdown on the facility 2012: nil.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 111 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 26.
Financial liabilities continued Bank loans The Group has entered into an agreement to obtain bank loans and mortgage facilities for its Employee benefit Trust.
These are secured by a xed and oating charge over the Groups assets and an unlimited guarantee provided by the Company.
At 29 December 2013 the balance due under these facilities was 13,000,000 2012: 12,035,000 all of which is in relation to the Employee benefit Trust.
The loan bears interest at 0.5% 2012: 0.5% above LIBOR.
The loan facility has a term of seven years and matures on 31 January 2014.
The limit for this facility is 13,000,000.
On 31 January 2014, the Group repaid 13,000,000 facility by, as noted above, increasing the existing revolving credit facility to 45,000,000.
Other loans Other loans include loans entered into to acquire assets which are then leased onto franchisees under finance lease arrangements.
The Group has an asset finance facility of 5,000,000 2012: 5,000,000 with a term of 5 years.
The balance drawn down on this facility and held within other loans as at 29 December 2013 is 2,213,000 2012: 2,939,000.
The loans are repayable in equal instalments over a period of up to five years.
The loans are secured by a limited guarantee and indemnity by the Company and Dominos Pizza UK & Ireland Limited limited to an annual sum of 300,000 and a mortgage charge over the assets nanced.
The interest rate on these loans is xed at an average of 5.8% 2012: 6.16%.
Also included within other loans is a balance of 2,090,000 2012: 2,050,000 in relation to a loan due to the Non-Controlling Interest in Dominos Germany.
This loan was acquired as part of the acquisition of Dominos Pizza Germany.
It is repayable in 2016 and bears interest at a rate of 2.5% above the 3 month Euro LIBOR.
Non-recourse loans Non-recourse loans of nil 2012: 2,604,000 were acquired with Dominos Leasing Limited.
The loans are repayable over terms of up to six years and bear interest at 0.5% above LIBOR.
The loans were secured over the related lease receivables and were repaid in October 2013 when the related lease receivables were settled in full.
Finance leases During the period ended 30 December 2012 the Group acquired a number of finance leases for corporate store equipment and vehicles in Switzerland and Germany.
The average lease term is 3.0 years.
During the period the average effective borrowing rate was 7.1% 2012: 5.8%.
Interest rates are xed at the contract rate.
All leases are on a xed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
The Groups obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors rights over the leased assets.
At 29 December 2013 the leased assets have a carrying value of 171,000 2012: 196,000.
No further disclosures have been included due to the immateriality of the lease liabilities to the Groups balance sheet.
Obligations under leases and hire purchase contracts Operating lease commitments where the Group is lessee For the stores in the franchisee system, the Group has entered into commercial leases, taking the head lease and then subletting the properties to the franchisees.
These leases have an average duration of between 10 and 25 years.
Under the terms of the franchise agreement the franchisee is granted an initial period of 10 years to operate a Dominos Pizza delivery store under the Dominos system.
Under the agreement the franchisee also has the option to renew for a further 10 years at the end of the initial period, provided at the time of the renewal the franchisee is not in default of any material provision of the franchise agreement.
In addition the Group has entered into commercial leases on motor vehicles and items of plant, machinery and equipment.
These leases have an average duration of between three and five years.
Only the property lease agreements contain an option for renewal, with such options being exercisable three months before the expiry of the lease term at rentals based on market prices at the time of exercise.
There are no restrictions placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: At At 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Not later than one year 18,500 17,132 After one year but not more than five years 66,744 61,578 After five years 128,859 125,001 214,103 203,711 112 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements 27.
Obligations under leases and hire purchase contracts continued Operating lease commitments where the Group is lessor For the stores in the franchisee system, the Group has entered into commercial leases, taking the head lease and in a few instances acquiring the freehold and then subletting the properties to the franchisees.
These non-cancellable leases have remaining terms of between five and ten years.
All leases include a provision for five-yearly rent reviews according to prevailing market conditions.
Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: At At 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Not later than one year 15,392 13,794 After one year but not more than five years 51,406 45,185 After five years 31,475 26,068 98,273 85,047 28.
Provisions Onerous lease Restructuring provisions provisions Total 000 000 000 At 30 December 2012 1,210 1,123 2,333 Arising during the period 800 1,807 2,607 Utilised during the period 119 428 547 Released during the period 13 127 140 Impact of discounting 83 27 110 Foreign exchange on translation 14 5 9 At 29 December 2013 1,947 2,407 4,354 At At 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Current 2,084 654 Non-current 2,270 1,679 4,354 2,333 Onerous lease provision The onerous lease provision relates to the outstanding rent obligation for UK, ROI and Germany properties.
These properties include sub-lets to commercial tenants, properties for which a lease has been signed but no franchisee has been identied to operate the store such that the lease obligation has become onerous, along with stores for which the tenant is paying reduced rent and the Group expects to make a loss in relation to the lease.
The provision will be utilised over the remaining lease term on the properties identied which range between two and 24 years.
Restructuring provisions A restructuring provision was established in the period to 30 December 2012 on acquisition of Dominos Switzerland and relates to outstanding rent obligations for seven stores which are being closed and relocated as well as other commitments arising from the restructuring plan such as redundancy andrelocation costs.
In the year to 29 December 2013, the transition of corporate stores to franchised stores in Germany is underway and, as part of the transition, a further provision has been established.
This includes a provision for an onerous contract other than leases that has been identied as a result ofthe transition and restructuring and redundancy costs.
The total restructuring provision will be utilised within four years.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 113 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 29.
Financial risk management objectives and policies The Groups financial risk management objectives consist of identifying and monitoring those risks, which have an adverse impact on the value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities or on reported profitability and on the cash ows of the Group.
The Groups principal financial liabilities comprise bank loans, bank revolving facilities, other loans and finance leases.
The Group has various financial assets such as trade receivables and cash and short-term deposits, which arise directly from its operations.
The Group has not entered into any derivative transactions such as interest rate swaps or financial foreign currency contracts.
It is, and has been throughout 2013 and 2012, the Groups policy that no trading in derivatives shall be undertaken.
The Groups main treasury risks relate to the availability of funds to meet its future requirements and uctuations in interest rates.
The treasury policy of the Group is determined and monitored by the Board.
The Group monitors its cash resources through short, medium and long-term cash forecasting, against available facilities.
Surplus cash is pooled into an interest bearing account with the Groups bankers.
The Group monitors its overall level of financial gearing monthly, with short and medium-term forecasts showing levels of gearing within targets.
It is the Groups policy not to have high financial leverage, comparing adjusted net debt to earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA.
The Group includes within adjusted net debt, interest bearing loans and borrowings, bank revolving facilities, less cash and cash equivalents and excludes, forthis calculation, the Dominos Leasing Limited non-recourse loans and the Dominos Germany non-controlling interest loan.
The Dominos Germany non-controlling interest loan is excluded from the Groups net debt calculation as it does not form part of the long term funding strategy of the Group.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are foreign currency risk, credit risk, price risk, liquidity risk and cash ow interest rate risk.
TheBoard reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below.
Foreign currency risk The Group has invested in operations in the Republic of Ireland, Germany and Switzerland and also buys and sells goods and services in currencies other than sterling.
As a result, the value of the Groups non-sterling revenues, purchases, financial assets and liabilities and cash ows can be affected by movements in exchange rates, the euro in particular.
The Group seeks to mitigate the effect of its currency exposures by agreeing xed euro rates with franchisees and suppliers wherever possible.
The Board does not consider there to be any significant unmitigated foreign currency risk in relation to the Groups profit before tax.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the sterling against euro exchange rates with all other variables held constant, of the Groups equity due to changes in the carrying value of euro denominated assets in subsidiaries with a sterling functional currency and sterling denominated assets in subsidiaries with a euro functional currency : Increase decrease in Effect Sterling vs on profit Euro rate before tax % 000 2013 25 9 -25 15 2012 25 16 -25 27 Credit risk Customers who trade on credit terms and obtain finance leasing and loans from the Group are predominantly franchisees and it is considered that the franchisee selection process is sufciently robust to ensure an appropriate credit verication procedure.
Non-recourse loans are only repayable provided the related lease receivables are settled in full.
This limits the Groups exposure to the non-repayment of other lease receivables.
In addition, trade receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
Since the Group trades only with franchisees that have been subject to the franchisee selection process and provide guarantees as required under the franchisee agreements, there is no requirement for collateral.
It is Group policy that cash deposits are only made with banks that have been approved by the Board and have a high credit rating in accordance with the Groups treasury policy to ensure that the Group is not exposed to unnecessary risk.
114 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements 29.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Liquidity risk The Group aims to mitigate liquidity risk by managing cash generation by its operations with cash collection targets set throughout the Group.
All major investment decisions are considered by the Board as part of the project appraisal and approval process.
In this way the Group aims to maintain a good credit rating to facilitate fund raising.
Financial liabilities due within 3 months of the period end will be settled by the Group using cash and receipts from trade receivables outstanding at the period end.
As stated in note 26 above, the Group settled its financial liability in respect of the Employee benefit Trust loan of 13,000,000 on 31 January 2014 by agreeing a further term loan in addition to the revolving credit facility and using these funds to repay the loan.
The table below summarises the maturity prole of the Groups financial liabilities at 29 December 2013 and 30 December 2012 based on contractual undiscounted payments.
Less than 3 to 12 1 to 5 On demand 3 months months years Total 000 000 000 000 000 Period ended 29 December 2013 Floating rate borrowings Bank loan EBT 13,033 13,033 Bank revolving facility 214 641 33,206 34,061 Non-recourse loans Other loans 56 168 2,754 2,978 Fixed rate borrowings Other loans 240 721 1,437 2,398 Finance leases 24 72 38 134 Non-interest bearing Trade and other payables 37,058 37,058 Deferred consideration amortised cost 288 920 6,384 7,592 Contingent consideration at fair value through profit and loss account 1,129 1,129 50,913 2,522 44,948 98,383 Less than 3 to 12 1 to 5 On demand 3 months months years Total 000 000 000 000 000 Period ended 30 December 2012 Floating rate borrowings Bank loan EBT 38 115 12,035 12,188 Bank revolving facility 236 709 33,544 34,489 Non-recourse loans 87 2,635 2,722 Other loans 76 227 2,947 3,250 Fixed rate borrowings Other loans 287 862 1,997 3,146 Finance leases 25 76 127 228 Non-interest bearing Trade and other payables 37,953 37,953 Deferred consideration amortised cost 450 987 7,449 8,886 Contingent consideration at fair value through profit and loss account 1,112 1,112 39,152 5,611 59,211 103,974 Interest rate risk The Board has a policy of ensuring a mix of xed and oating rate borrowings based on the best available rates.
Whilst xed rate interest bearing debt is not exposed to cash ow interest rate risk, there is no opportunity for the Group to benefit from a reduction in borrowing costs when market rates are declining.
Conversely, whilst oating rate borrowings are not exposed to changes in fair value, the Group is exposed to cash ow interest rate risk as costs are impacted by changes in market rates.
The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates at the balance sheet date.
For oating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the wholeyear.
If interest rates had been 0.5 per cent higher lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups profit for the 52 week period ended 29 December 2013 would decrease increase by 56,000 2012: 111,000.
This is mainly attributable to the Groups exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings.
There would be no impact on other comprehensive income.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 115 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 29.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Capital management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it remains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the periods ended 29 December 2013 and 30 December 2012.
The Group monitors the ratio of adjusted net debt to adjusted earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA.
The Group includes within adjusted net debt, interest bearing loans and borrowings, bank revolving facilities, less cash and cash equivalents and excludes, for this calculation, the Dominos Leasing Limited non-recourse loans and the Dominos Germany non-controlling interestloan.
At At 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Bank loan EBT 13,000 12,035 Other loans 2,213 2,939 Finance leases 134 228 Bank revolving facilities 29,814 29,737 Less: cash and cash equivalents 31,597 21,975 Adjusted net debt 13,564 22,964 Non-recourse loans 2,604 Dominos Germany non-controlling interest loan 2,090 2,050 Net debt 15,654 27,618 Adjusted EBITDA 53,714 47,894 Adjusted gearing ratio 0.3 0.5 For further commentary on cash ow, net debt and gearing see the Chief Financial Ofcers review.
116 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements 30.
Financial instruments Fair values Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the Groups financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements: Fair Fair Carrying value Carrying value value value 2013 2012 2013 2012 000 000 000 000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 31,597 21,975 31,597 21,975 Net investment in finance leases 2,636 5,636 2,452 5,324 Financial liabilities Bank revolving facilities 29,814 29,737 29,814 29,737 Bank loan EBT 13,000 12,035 13,000 12,035 Fixed rate borrowings 2,213 2,939 2,746 2,981 Finance lease liabilities 134 228 134 228 Floating rate borrowings 2,090 4,654 2,090 4,654 Contingent consideration 1,129 1,113 1,129 1,113 The fair value of the net investment in finance leases has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash ows at the market interest rate.
The fair value of xed rate borrowings has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash ows at a market rate of interest.
Trade and other receivables and trade and other payables are excluded from the above analysis as the fair values approximate to the carrying amounts due totheir short term nature.
Cash, bank revolving facilities and bank loans are all held with banks that have been approved by the Board and have a high credit rating and as a result theyare recorded at carrying value.
Interest payable on the bank loan EBT and bank revolving facilities is at oating rate and hence no fair value adjustment isrequired.
The fair value of the contingent consideration has been estimated by applying a probability weighted average for a number of scenarios based on performance against budget as explained in note 20.
This equates to a Level 3 classication under the IFRS 13 requirement to classify financial instruments at fair value by reference to the following three-level hierarchy of the source of inputs used to derive the fair value.
Level 1 Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3 Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The significant unobservable inputs include long-term profitability of the Switzerland business.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 117 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 31.
During the period the Company did not buy back any shares 2012: 750,000 ordinary shares of 1.5625p each for a total value of 3,307,000, including costs of 47,000, at an average price of 434.67p per share.
Nature and purpose of reserves Share capital Share capital comprises the nominal value of the Companys ordinary shares of 1.5625p each.
Share premium The share premium reserve is the premium paid on the Companys 1.5625p ordinary shares.
Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve includes the nominal value of shares bought back by the Company.
Capital reserve own shares This reserve relates to shares held by an independently managed EBT.
The shares held by the EBT were purchased in order to satisfy potential awards under the Reversionary Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
Currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of the Groups foreign subsidiaries.
Other reserve The other reserve relates to the contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of Dominos Germany, being 880,000 ordinary shares on the opening of the 35th Dominos store in Germany.
Please see note 37 for details of a post balance sheet event relating to this.
118 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements 32.
Share-based payments The expense recognised for share-based payments in respect of employee services received during the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2013 is 613,000 2012: 2,357,000.
This all arises on equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Plan a Reversionary Interest Long Term Incentive Plan Reversionary interests over assets held in the Dominos Pizza Group plc employee benefit trust were approved and granted, at the discretion of the trustees, to senior executives.
The interests are capable of vesting within a five year period should certain performance targets be achievedbythe Group and all awards will be equity-settled.
During the period no further reversionary interests were granted 2012: nil and no further grants are envisaged under this scheme.
At29December 2013 reversionary interests represented by 2,287,920 2012: 4,311,774 shares in Dominos Pizza Group plc have been granted.
Theweighted average fair value of each reversionary interest granted during the period ended 30 December 2012 was 68.8p.
The following tables list the performance criteria attached to the reversionary interests for the periods ended 29 December 2013 and 30 December 2012: As at As at Initial value 30 December 29 December Grant date per interest Performance conditions 2012 Granted Vested Forfeited 2013 02-Jun-09 206.25p Growth of RPI plus 12% 17-Feb-10 327.00p Growth of RPI plus 12% 1,123,854 1,123,854 17-Jun-10 366.10p Growth of RPI plus 12% 300,000 300,000 27-Jul-10 424.90p Growth of RPI plus 12% 300,000 300,000 23-Sep-10 457.50p Growth of RPI plus 12% 300,000 300,000 09-Aug-11 437.10p Growth of RPI plus 12% 2,287,920 2,287,920 4,311,774 2,023,854 2,287,920 As at As at Initial value 25 December 30 December Grant date per interest Performance conditions 2011 Granted Vested Forfeited 2012 02-Jun-09 206.25p Growth of RPI plus 12% 1,727,757 1,727,757 17-Feb-10 327.00p Growth of RPI plus 12% 1,123,854 1,123,854 17-Jun-10 366.10p Growth of RPI plus 12% 300,000 300,000 27-Jul-10 424.90p Growth of RPI plus 12% 300,000 300,000 23-Sep-10 457.50p Growth of RPI plus 12% 300,000 300,000 09-Aug-11 437.10p Growth of RPI plus 12% 2,507,549 219,629 2,287,920 6,259,160 1,727,757 219,629 4,311,774 b 2012 Long Term Incentive Plan At the 2012 AGM shareholders approved the adoption of new LTIP rules which allow for either the grant of market value options or performance shares.
Awards are approved and granted at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee to senior executives and other employees.
Awards are capable of vesting within a three year period should certain performance targets be achieved by the Group and all awards will be equity-settled.
During the period no awards were granted 2012: 1,282,296 shares.
At 29 December 2013, 2012 LTIP awards were represented by 1,021,684 2012: 1,055,420 shares in Dominos Pizza Group plc have been granted.
The weighted average fair value of each award granted during the period ended 30 December 2012 was 68.8p.
The following tables lists the performance criteria attached to the 2012 LTP grants for the periods ended 29 December 2013 and 30 December 2012: As at As at Initial value 30 December 29 December Grant date per interest Performance conditions 2012 Granted Vested Forfeited 2013 Adjusted annual EPS growth 02-Apr-12 431.60p see page 69 1,055,420 33,736 1,021,684 1,055,420 33,736 1,021,684 As at As at Initial value 25 December 30 December Grant date per interest Performance conditions 2011 Granted Vested Forfeited 2012 Adjusted annual EPS growth 02-Apr-12 431.60p see page 69 1,282,296 226,876 1,055,420 1,282,296 226,876 1,055,420 Employee Share-option schemes On 24 November 1999 participants in the Dominos Pizza Group Limited Unapproved Share Option Scheme which had been in place since 31 March 1999 had the option of exchanging options over shares in Dominos Pizza Group Limited in return for equivalent options over ordinary shares in the Company under Dominos Pizza Share Option Unapproved Scheme.
On 23 March 2004, the Company established the Dominos Pizza Group plc Enterprise Management Incentive Scheme EMI Scheme.
In 2009 the Company established the Dominos Pizza UK & Irl plc Company Share Option Plan 2009 Dominos Pizza CSOP Scheme which enables the grant of both approved and unapproved options.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 119 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 32.
Share-based payments continued All employees are eligible for grants of options under these schemes, which are approved by the Board.
Grants prior to 2011, vest over a three year period andare exercisable subject to the condition that the growth in adjusted diluted earnings per share during each of the three years following the date of grant exceeds growth in the Retail Price Index by at least 3%.
For 2011 and 2012 the options vest over a three year period and are exercisable subject to the condition that real growth in adjusted diluted earnings per share, during each of the three years following the date of grant, exceeds 3%.
The options lapse after 10 years or in certain other circumstances connected with leaving the Company.
There are no cash settlement alternatives and all awards are equity settled.
No options were granted during the period ended 29 December 2013.
Sharesave scheme During 2009 the Group introduced a Sharesave scheme giving employees the option to acquire shares in the Company.
Employees have the option to save anamount per month up to a maximum of 250 or from April 2014 500 and at the end of three years they have the option to purchase shares in the company or to take their savings in cash.
The contractual life of the scheme is three years.
The weighted average fair value of each Sharesave option granted in 2013was 142.51p 2012: 68.8p.
Share schemes As at 29 December 2013, the following share options were outstanding: Outstanding at Granted Exercised Forfeited Outstanding at 30 December during during during 29 December 2012 the period the period the period 2013 Date of grant Exercise price No.
Share-based payments continued Share schemes continued As at 30 December 2012, the following share options were outstanding: Outstanding at Granted Exercised Forfeited Outstanding at 25 December during during during 30 December 2011 the period the period the period 2012 Date of grant Exercise price No.
The weighted average share price for options exercised during 2013 was 613.7p 2012: 490.9p.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 121 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 32.
Share-based payments continued Share schemes continued The following share options were exercisable at the period end: At At 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 No.
Dominos Pizza unapproved Scheme 15 December 2005 48,259 119,279 30 March 2007 103,765 131,773 3 April 2008 102,632 159,714 254,656 410,766 Dominos Pizza CSOP unapproved Scheme 29 May 2009 30,708 58,157 13 April 2010 85,569 116,277 58,157 Dominos Pizza CSOP approved Scheme 29 May 2009 162,887 270,171 13 April 2010 110,851 116,277 58,157 EMI Scheme 23 March 2004 9,600 40,837 654,271 779,931 Weighted average exercise price 238.1p 184.5p The fair value of both options and reversionary interests granted is estimated at the date of granting using a Black-Scholes model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which they were granted.
As no options were granted during the period to 29 December 2013 no fair value calculations have been required.
Additional cash flow information Analysis of Group net debt At At 30 December Cash Exchange Non-cash 29 December 2012 ow differences movements 2013 000 000 000 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents 21,975 9,158 464 31,597 Bank revolving facility 29,737 77 29,814 Bank loans 12,035 965 13,000 Finance leases 228 1 95 134 Other loans 2,939 726 2,213 Adjusted net debt 22,964 8,919 463 18 13,564 Non-recourse loans 2,604 2,604 Other loans 2,050 40 2,090 Net debt 27,618 11,523 423 18 15,654 At At 25 December Cash Exchange Non-cash 30 December 2011 ow differences movements 2012 000 000 000 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents 24,427 2,308 144 21,975 Bank revolving facility 25,000 4,702 35 29,737 Bank loans 12,035 12,035 Finance leases 4 224 228 Other loans 2,689 250 2,939 Adjusted net debt 15,297 7,260 148 259 22,964 Non-recourse loans 3,943 1,339 2,604 Other loans 2,084 34 2,050 Net debt 21,324 5,921 114 259 27,618 122 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements 34.
Capital commitments At 29 December 2013, amounts contracted for but not provided in the financial statements for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounted tonil 2012: 92,000 for the Group.
Contingent liabilities Pursuant to the relevant regulation of the European Communities Companies: Group Accounts Regulations, 1992 the Company has guaranteed the liabilities of the Irish subsidiary, DP Pizza Limited and as a result the Irish company has been exempted from the ling provisions section 7, Companies Amendment Act 1986 of the Republic of Ireland.
The Group has, in previous periods, entered into loans with franchisees for the sole purpose of new store t outs.
In the period, the Group assisted in therenancing of some of these loans with three major banks Barclays Bank plc, HSBC Bank plc and National Westminster Bank plc.
The Company hasguaranteed the loans renanced with Barclays Bank plc in the event of a default by the franchisee.
The total amount of loans renanced with Barclaysbankplc in the period was 663,000.
Related party transactions The financial statements include the financial statements of Dominos Pizza Group plc and the subsidiary undertakings listed below.
Country of Proportion of voting Name of company incorporation rights and shares held Nature of business Directly held subsidiary undertakings DPG Holdings Limited England 100% ordinary Investment DP Realty Limited England 100% ordinary Property management DP Group Developments Limited England 100% ordinary Property development DP Capital Limited England 100% ordinary Leasing of store equipment American Pizza Company Limited England 100% ordinary Dormant Dominos Pizza Isle of Man Limited Isle of Man 100% ordinary Property management DP Cyco Limited Cyprus 75% ordinary Operation and management of franchise business in Germany DP Cyco Switzerland Limited Cyprus 100% ordinary Operation and management of franchise business in Switzerland Indirectly held subsidiary undertakings Dominos Pizza UK & Ireland Limited England 100% ordinary Operation and management of franchise business and commissaries DP Newcastle Limited England 100% ordinary Dormant Livebait Limited England 100% ordinary Dormant DP Pizza Limited Republic of 100% ordinary Operation of Supply Chain Centre Ireland Dominos Leasing Limited England 100% ordinary Leasing Dominos Pizza Germany Limited England 75% ordinary Operation of Supply Chain Centre and pizza delivery stores in Germany Dominos Pizza Germany GmbH Germany 75% ordinary Investment Dominos Pizza GmbH Switzerland 100% ordinary Operation of Supply Chain Centre and pizza delivery stores in Switzerland Associate undertakings Full House Restaurants Limited England 41% ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores Dominoid Limited England 50% ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores Mungo Park Limited England 50% ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores Joint venture undertakings Deutsche Dominoid GmbH Germany 50% ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores Dominos Pizza West Country Limited England 50% ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores DP Shayban Limited England 50% ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores HJS Pizza Deutschland GmbH Germany 40% ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores American Pizza Company Limited and Livebait Limited have been struck off during the period to 29 December 2013 Dominoid Limited and Mungo Park Limited were sold during the period www.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 123 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 36.
Related party transactions continued During the period the Group entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with related parties.
For details of loan balances due from associates please refer to note 23.
Transactions entered into, and trading balances outstanding at 29 December 2012: 30 December with related parties, are as follows: Amounts Sales to owed by related related party party 000 000 Related party Associates and joint ventures 2013 16,707 689 2012 13,118 746 Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties Sales and purchases between related parties are made at normal market prices.
Outstanding balances with entities are unsecured, interest free and cash settlement is expected within seven days of invoice.
The Group has not provided for or benefited from any guarantees for any related party receivables or payables.
During the financial period ended 29 December 2013, the Group has made a provision of 1,460,000 for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by related parties 2012: nil.
Compensation of key management personnel including directors 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 29 December 30 December 2013 2012 000 000 Short-term employee benets 3,920 4,601 Post-employment benets 324 200 Share-based payment 386 1,797 4,630 6,598 The table above includes the remuneration costs of the directors of the Company and the directors of Dominos Pizza UK and Ireland Limited, Dominos Pizza Germany Limited and Dominos Pizza GmbH.
Other related parties During the period, the Group paid 21,333 2012: 62,333 to Saracens rugby club, in the normal course of business as part of its on-going marketing strategy.
Nigel Wray has an interest in this entity, being Non-Executive Chairman of Saracens Limited.
The transaction was paid at arms length values under normal business terms.
Post balance sheet event On 26 February 2014 the Group entered into an agreement to purchase the minority shareholding in relation to the German business.
This involves the purchase of the remaining 25% shareholding from our non-controlling interest partner, Briskas Limited, for consideration of an option over 3,000,000 shares in Dominos at an amount of 577.7 pence per share, equal to 25 pence above the average of the market value for a Dominos Share as derived from the Daily Ofcial List for the five business days prior to the date of the Agreement.
In addition, the contingently issuable shares 880,000 which formed part of the original acquisition arrangement, were issued at completion.
On 31 January 2014, the Group increased the existing 30,000,000 bank facility further to a 45,000,000 facility being a 30,000,000 revolving credit facility and 15,000,000 term loan in order to repay the Employee benefit Trust loan of 13,000,000.
Interest charged on the additional facility is 1.10% perannum above LIBOR and the term loan matures on 31 January 2015.
The facility is secured by an unlimited cross guarantee between the Company, DominosPizza UK & Ireland Limited, DPG Holdings Limited, DP Realty Limited, DP Pizza Limited and DP Group Developments Limited as well as negativepledges given by the Company, Dominos Pizza UK & Ireland Limited, DPG Holdings Limited, DP Realty Limited, DP Pizza Limited and DP GroupDevelopments Limited.
124 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
