Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that Directors responsibility statement disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Report on Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the Annual Report Directors remuneration and the financial statements Group and Company and financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and with inaccordance with applicable UK laws and regulations.
UK company law regard to the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Theyare also responsible for the system of internal control for safeguarding Under that law, the Directors have prepared the Group financial statements the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable inaccordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
adopted by the European Union EU and applicable UK law.
Further, they have elected to prepare the Company financial statements in accordance A copy of the financial statements of the Company is posted on the withUK accounting standards UK GAAP and applicable UKlaw.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the website.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements Information published on the Companys website is accessible in many unless they are satisfied that they are a true and fair view of the Group and countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the UK governing Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for thatperiod.
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from In preparing the Group financial statements, the Directors are requiredto: legislation in other jurisdictions.
Select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting DTR 4.1 statement policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors and then apply Each of the Directors, the names and functions of whom are set out on themconsistently: pages42 and 43 confirms that to the best of his knowledge, they have Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner which complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements presents relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: in accordance with applicable accounting standards and that the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic position and profit of the Group and the Company and of the Groups income requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enables users to understand the statement for that period.
In addition, each of the Directors confirms that the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the strategic report represented by the Directors report includes a fair review of Groups financial position and financial performance: and the development and performance of the business and the position of the State that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to any material Company and Group, together with a description of the principal risks and departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
In preparing the Company financial statements, the Directors are requiredto: The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Having taken advice from the Audit Select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: Committee, the Board considers the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the information necessary for the shareholders to assess the Company and State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, Groups performance, business model and strategy.
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is Signed on behalf of the Board inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
David Wild Lee Ginsberg Chief Executive officer Chief Financial officer 28 February 2014 28 February 2014 76 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
