Drax Group plc 151 Annual report and accounts 2013 Glossary Advantaged fuels EU ETS Net cash debt Fuel that gives a price advantage against The EU Emissions Trading Scheme is a Comprises cash and cash equivalents, standard bituminous coals.
Such fuels mechanism introduced across the EU short-term investments less overdrafts include pond fines, off-specification coal to reduce emissions of CO : the scheme and borrowings net of deferred 2 and petcoke.
is capable of being extended to cover all finance costs.
Ancillary services Net sales Services provided to National Grid used Feed-in Tariff The aggregate of net volumes for balancing supply and demand or A long-term contract set at a fixed level attributable to bilateral contracts, maintaining secure electricity supplies where variable payments are made to power exchange trades and net within acceptable limits.
They are ensure the generator receives an agreed Balancing Mechanism.
described in Connection Condition 8 tariff.
The Feed-in Tariff payment would Net sales at notional balancing point NBP ofthe Grid Code.
be made in addition to the generators Net sales at NBP is the volume of power revenues from selling electricity in Availability sold to customers by our Retail business the market.
Average percentage of time the units expressed at the notional balancing were available for generation.
The NBP reflects the Any reduction in plant availability volume of power sold before deduction Average achieved price excluding planned outages.
of transmission and distribution losses Power revenues divided by volume of incurred in transporting this power from netsales includes imbalance charges.
Forced outage rate the grid to the customer meter.
The capacity which is not available due to Balancing Mechanism forced outages or restrictions expressed Planned outage The sub-set of the market through which as a percentage of the maximum A period during which scheduled the System Operator can call upon theoretical capacity, lessplanned maintenance is executed according additional generation consumption or outage capacity.
tothe plan set at the outset of the year.
reduce generation consumption, through market participants bids and offers, in order Grid charges Planned outage rate to balance the system minute by minute.
Includes transmission network use of The capacity not available due to planned system charges TNUoS, balancing outages expressed as a percentage of the Bark spread services use of system charges BSUoS maximum theoretical capacity.
The difference between the power and distribution use of systemcharges price and the cost of biomass, net of Power exchange trades DUoS.
Power sales or purchases transacted Group onthe APX UK power trading platform.
Bilateral contracts Drax Group plc and its subsidiaries.
Contracts with counterparties andpower ROCs exchange trades.
IFRS A Renewables Obligation Certificate International Financial ROC is a certificate issued to an Carbon price support mechanism Reporting Standards.
accredited generator for electricity orcarbon price floor or carbon tax generated from eligible renewable A tax upon fossil fuels including coal used LECs sources.
The Renewables Obligation is to generate electricity.
It is charged as a Levy Exemption Certificates.
Evidence of currently the main support scheme for levy on coal delivered to the power station.
Climate Change Levy exempt electricity renewable electricity projects in the UK.
supplies generated from qualifying Company renewable sources.
The calendar months April to September.
Levy Control Framework Contracts for Difference CfD A control framework for DECC levy-funded System operator A mechanism to support investment spending intended to make sure that National Grid Electricity Transmission.
DECC achieves its fuel poverty, energy Responsible for the co-ordination The CfD works by stabilising revenues for and climate change goals in a way that is of electricity flows onto and over generators at a fixed price level known as consistent with economic recovery and the transmission system, balancing the strike price.
Generators will receive minimising the impact on consumer bills.
generation supply and user demand.
revenue from selling their electricity into the market as usual.
However, when Load factor Total recordable injury rate TRIR the market reference price is below the Net sent out generation as a percentage The frequency rate is calculated on the strike price they will also receive a top-up of maximum sales.
following basis: lost time injuries worst payment from suppliers for the additional than first aid hours worked x 100,000.
Lost time injury rate amount.
Conversely if the reference price The frequency rate is calculated on the UK NAP is above the strike price, the generator following basis: lost time injuries hours UK National Allocation Plan.
must pay back the difference.
Lost time injuries Underlying financial measures Dark green spread are defined as occurrences where the We report financial measures described The difference between the power price injured party is absent from work for more as underlying such as profit after tax and and the cost of coal and carbon.
Underlying measures EBITDA Net Balancing Mechanism are adjusted to exclude the impact of Profit before interest, tax, depreciation Net volumes attributable to accepted bids gains and losses on derivative contracts and amortisation, gains or losses on and offers in the Balancing Mechanism.
disposal of property, plant and equipment Winter and unrealised gains or losses on The calendar months October to March.
Financi Financials als Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc 152 Annual report and accounts 2013 Notes Design and production: Radley Yeldar | www.
com Photography: Andy Wilson Henry Thomas Print: Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Cocoon 100 Offset, a paper containing 100% post consumer recycled fibre, which is either Process Chlorine Free PCF or Totally Chlorine Free TCF.
Drax Group plc Drax Power Station Selby North Yorkshire YO8 8PH Telephone: 44 0 1757 618381 Fax: 44 0 1757 612192 www.
