$FFRXQWV RWKHU LQIRUPDWLRQ Glossary $LUFUDIW GU ZHW OHDVLQJ 3DVVHQJHUV Payments to lessors under dry leasing arrangements Number of earned seats flown.
Earned seats comprises relate solely to the provision of an aircraft.
Payments seats sold to passengers including no-shows, seats to lessors under wet leasing arrangements relate to the provided for promotional purposes and seats provided provision of aircraft, crew, maintenance and insurance.
to staff for business travel.
$LUFUDIW RZQHG OHDVHG DW HQG RI HDU 3URILW EHIRUH WD[ SHU VHDW Number of aircraft owned or on lease arrangements Profit before tax divided by seats flown.
of over one months duration at the end of the period.
5HWXUQ RQ FDSLWDO HPSOR HG 52& $YDLODEOH VHDW NLORPHWUHV $6.
Normalised profit after tax adjusted for leases divided Seats flown multiplied by the number of kilometres flown.
by average net debt plus average shareholders equity.
$YHUDJH IDUH 5HWXUQ RQ HTXLW Passenger and ancillary revenue divided by passengers.
Profit for the year divided by the average of opening and closing shareholders equity.
%ORFN KRXUV Hours of service for aircraft, measured from the time 5HYHQXH that the aircraft leaves the terminal at the departure The sum of seat revenue and non-seat revenue.
airport to the time that it arrives at the terminal at the 5HYHQXH SDVVHQJHU NLORPHWUHV 53. destination airport.
Number of passengers multiplied by the number &RVW SHU $6.
of kilometres those passengers were flown.
Revenue less profit before tax, divided by available 5HYHQXH SHU $6.
Revenue divided by available seat kilometres.
&RVW SHU VHDW 5HYHQXH SHU VHDW Revenue less profit before tax, divided by seats flown.
Revenue divided by seats flown.
&RVW SHU VHDW H[FOXGLQJ IXHO 6HDWV IORZQ Revenue, less profit before tax, plus fuel costs, divided Seats available for passengers.
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortisation, aircraft dry leasing costs, and profit or loss on disposal of assets held for sale.
HDULQJ Net debt adjusted by adding seven times aircraft dry leasing payments for the year divided by the sum of shareholders equity and adjusted net debt.
RDG IDFWRU Number of passengers as a percentage of number of seats flown.
The load factor is not weighted for the effect of varying sector lengths.
2SHUDWHG DLUFUDIW XWLOLVDWLRQ Average number of block hours per day per aircraft operated.
2WKHU FRVWV Administrative and operational costs not reported elsewhere, including some employee costs, compensation paid to passengers, exchange gains and losses and the profit or loss on the disposal of property plant and equipment.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 132 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Thank you Wed like to thank everyone who has helped to produce this report: Paul Ablin, Charlotte Allin, Paul Atkins, John Barton, Angela Bennett, Alita Benson, Lis Blair, Warwick Brady, Lisa Burger, Mike Campbell, Phil Chastell, Trevor Didcock, Peter Duffy, Chris Gadsden, Lewis Girdwood, Val Goldine, Pamela Harrison, Michelle Heywood, Martin Lynch, Bruce James, Reema Jandu, Sarah Kayser, Chris Kennedy, Rachel Kentleton, Ken Lawrie, Rosie Lobb, Cath Lynn, Will MacLaren, Carolyn McCall OBE, Andrew McConnell, Paul Moore, Shahina Mostafa, Tom Oliver, Giles Pemberton, Louise Pocklington, Captain Dave Prior, Adam Raffa, Zarina Sabir, Neil Slaven, Chris Sominka, Andrew Tempest, Hayley Thomas, Claire Walker, Charles Whitehouse, Helen Whittle, Anna Willshire, Andrew Winterton, Natalie Yeung and all of our employees across the network.
Printed by Park Communications on FSC certied paper.
Park is EMAS certied: its Environmental Management System is certied to ISO 14001 and it is a CarbonNeutral company.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Core Silk, a paper containing 100% virgin bre sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC certied forests.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an elemental chlorine free ECF process.
This report is available at: Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc http: corporate.
com Hangar 89 London Luton Airport Luton Bedforshire LU2 9PF www.
