Accoun $FFRXQWV RW ts & other KHU LQIRUPDWLR informationQ $FFRXQWV RWKHU LQIRUPDWLRQ Notes to the accounts 6LJQLILFDQW DFFRXQWLQJ SROLFLHV 2S@SDLDMS NE BNLOKH@MBD easyJet plc the Company and its subsidiaries easyJet or the Group as applicable is a low-cost airline carrier operating principally in Europe.
The Company is a public limited company whose shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol EZJ and is incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of its registered office is Hangar 89, London Luton Airport, Luton, Bedfordshire LU2 9PF.
The accounts are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, taking into account International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
@RHR NE OQDO@Q@SHNM The accounts are prepared based on the historical cost convention except for certain financial assets and liabilities including derivative financial instruments that are measured at fair value.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all years presented in these accounts.
easyJets business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development and performance, are described in the strategic report on pages 2 to 57.
Principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages 38 to 43.
Note 22 to the accounts sets out the Groups objectives, policies and procedures for managing its capital and gives details of the risks related to financial instruments held by the Group.
The accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Details on going concern are provided on page 36.
2HFMHEHB@MS ITCFDLDMSR DRSHL@SDR @MC BQHSHB@K @BBNTMSHMF ONKHBHDR The preparation of accounts in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, events or actions may mean that actual results ultimately differ from those estimates, and these differences may be material.
The estimates and the underlying assumptions are reviewed regularly.
The following two accounting policies are considered critical accounting policies as they require a significant amount of management judgment and the results are material to easyJets accounts.
&NNCVHKK @MC K@MCHMF QHFGSRNSD Goodwill and landing rights are tested for impairment at least annually.
easyJet has one cash-generating unit, being its route network.
In making this assessment, easyJet has considered the manner in which the business is managed including the centralised nature of its operations and the ability to open or close routes and redeploy aircraft and crew across the whole route network.
The value in use of the cash-generating unit is determined by discounting future cash flows to their present value.
When applying this method, easyJet relies on a number of estimates including its strategic plans, fuel prices, exchange rates, long-term economic growth rates for the principal countries in which it operates and its pre-tax weighted average cost of capital.
HQBQ@ES L@HMSDM@MBD OQNUHRHNMRNSD easyJet incurs liabilities for maintenance costs in respect of aircraft leased under operating leases during the term of the lease.
These arise from legal and constructive contractual obligations relating to the condition of the aircraft when it is returned to the lessor.
To discharge these obligations, easyJet will also normally need to carry out one heavy maintenance check on each of the engines and the airframe during the lease term.
A charge is made in the income statement based on hours or cycles flown to provide for the cost of these obligations.
Estimates required include the likely utilisation of the aircraft, the expected cost of the heavy maintenance check at the time it is expected to occur, the condition of the aircraft and the lifespan of life-limited parts.
com 99 $FFRXQWV RWKHU LQIRUPDWLRQ Notes to the accounts continued 6LJQLILFDQW DFFRXQWLQJ SROLFLHV continued The bases of all estimates are reviewed annually, and also when information becomes available that is capable of causing a material change to an estimate, such as renegotiation of end of lease return conditions, increased or decreased utilisation, or changes in the cost of heavy maintenance services.
@RHR NE BNMRNKHC@SHNM The consolidated accounts incorporate those of easyJet plc and its subsidiaries for the years ended 30 September 2012 and 2013.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by easyJet.
Control exists when easyJet has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to benefit from its activities.
Intragroup balances, transactions and any unrealised gains and losses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated accounts.
%NQDHFM BTQQDMBHDR The primary economic environment in which a subsidiary operates determines its functional currency.
The consolidated accounts of easyJet are presented in sterling, which is the Companys functional currency and the Groups presentation currency.
Certain subsidiaries have operations that are primarily influenced by a currency other than sterling.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of these foreign operations are taken to shareholders equity until all or part of the interest is sold, when the relevant portion of the accumulated exchange gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
Profits and losses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at average rates of exchange during the year, since this approximates the rates on the dates of the transactions.
Transactions arising in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and except where the asset or liability is designated as a cash flow hedge the gains or losses on translation are included in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the transactions were effected.
1DUDMTD QDBNFMHSHNM Revenue comprises seat revenue, being the value of airline services net of air passenger duty, VAT and discounts, and non-seat revenue.
Seat revenue arises from the sale of flight seats, including the provision of checked baggage, speedy priority boarding services and allocated seating, administration, credit card and change fees.
Seat revenue is recognised when the service is provided.
This is generally when the flight takes place, but in the following cases, this is at the time of booking: Administration and credit card fees as they are contractually non-refundable, Change fees as the service provided is that of allowing customers to change bookings.
Amounts paid by no-show customers are recognised as seat revenue when the booked service is provided as such customers are not generally entitled to change flights or seek refunds once a flight has departed.
Unearned revenue represents flight seats, including the provision of checked baggage and allocated seating, sold but not yet flown and is included in trade and other payables until it is realised in the income statement when the service is provided.
Non-seat revenue arises from commissions earned from services sold on behalf of partners and is recognised when the service is provided.
This is generally when the related flight takes place.
In the case of commission earned from travel insurance, revenue is recognised at the time of booking as easyJet acts solely as appointed representative of the insurance company.
!TRHMDRR BNLAHM@SHNMR Business combinations in prior years were accounted for by applying the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given and liabilities incurred or assumed plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets and liabilities are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date.
There have been no business combinations since the effective date of IFRS 3 Business Combinations Revised.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over easyJets interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 10 0 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Accoun $FFRXQWV RW ts & other KHU LQIRUPDWLR informationQ &NNCVHKK @MC NSGDQ HMS@MFHAKD @RRDSR Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
It has an indefinite expected useful life and is tested for impairment at least annually or where there is any indication of impairment.
Landing rights are stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
They are considered to have an indefinite useful life as they will remain available for use for the foreseeable future provided minimum utilisation requirements are observed, and are tested for impairment at least annually or where there is any indication of impairment.
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation, which is calculated to write off their cost, less estimated residual value, on a straight line basis over their expected useful lives.
Expected useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually.
Expected useful life Computer software 3 years Contractual rights Over the length of the related contracts QNODQSX OK@MS @MC DPTHOLDMS Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of assets, on a straight line basis over their expected useful lives.
Expected useful lives are reviewed annually.
Expected useful life Aircraft 23 years Aircraft spares 14 years Aircraft prepaid maintenance 3-10 years Leasehold improvements 5-10 years or the length of lease if shorter Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3 years or length of lease of property where equipment is used if shorter Computer hardware 5 years Aircraft held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their expected useful lives, as shown above.
Residual values, where applicable, are reviewed annually against prevailing market rates at the balance sheet date for equivalently aged assets and depreciation rates adjusted accordingly on a prospective basis.
The carrying value is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
An element of the cost of a new aircraft is attributed on acquisition to prepaid maintenance and is depreciated over a period ranging from three to ten years from the date of manufacture.
Subsequent costs incurred which lend enhancement to future periods, such as long-term scheduled maintenance and major overhaul of aircraft and engines, are capitalised and depreciated over the length of period benefiting from these enhancements.
All other maintenance costs are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Pre-delivery and option payments made in respect of aircraft are recorded in property, plant and equipment at cost.
These amounts are not amortised.
Gains and losses on disposals other than aircraft sale and leaseback transactions are determined by comparing the net proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised in the income statement.
LO@HQLDMS NE MNM BTQQDMS @RRDSR An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets fair value less cost to sell and its value in use.
Impairment losses recognised on goodwill are not reversed.
Impairment losses recognised on assets other than goodwill are only reversed where changes in the estimates used result in an increase in recoverable amount.
com 101 $FFRXQWV RWKHU LQIRUPDWLRQ Notes to the accounts continued 6LJQLILFDQW DFFRXQWLQJ SROLFLHV continued D@RDR easyJet enters into sale and leaseback transactions whereby it sells either new or mid-life aircraft to a third party and immediately leases it back under an operating lease.
Surpluses arising on disposal, where the price that the aircraft is sold for is above fair value, are recognised in deferred income and amortised on a straight-line basis over the expected lease term.
In some operating sale and leaseback arrangements, receipt of part of the proceeds is deferred until the end of the lease, the amount of which is recorded as deferred consideration within non-current or current assets as appropriate.
Additionally, in some cases receipt of part of the sales proceeds due is exchanged for a reduction in future lease rentals, which consequently are below market price.
As a result, the proceeds received on sale and leaseback are lower than the fair value of the aircraft sold.
The resulting shortfall is deferred within non-current or current assets as appropriate, and amortised on a straight-line basis over the expected lease term.
Non-contingent operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
A number of operating leases require easyJet to make contingent rental payments based on variable interest rates: these are expensed as incurred.
Finance leases, which transfer to easyJet substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are recognised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset, or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Any directly attributable costs of entering into financing sale and leasebacks are included in the value of the asset recognised.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and the reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are included in interest payable and other financing charges.
%HM@MBH@K HMRSQTLDMSR Financial instruments are recognised when easyJet becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant instrument and derecognised when it ceases to be a party to such provisions.
Where market values are not available, the fair value of financial instruments is calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying year end exchange rates.
-NM CDQHU@SHUD EHM@MBH@K @RRDSR Non derivative financial assets are recorded at amortised cost and include loan notes, trade receivables, cash and money market deposits.
Investments in equity instruments are carried at cost where fair value cannot be reliably measured due to significant variability in the range of reasonable fair value estimates.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held in bank accounts with no access restrictions and bank or money market deposits repayable on demand or maturing within three months of inception.
Interest income on cash and money market deposits is recognised using the effective interest method.
Restricted cash comprises cash deposits which have restrictions governing their use and is classified as a current or non-current asset based on the estimated remaining length of the restriction.
Impairment losses are recognised on financial assets carried at amortised cost where there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been incurred.
The amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
If, subsequently, the amount of the impairment loss decreases, and the decrease can be related objectively to an event that occurred after the impairment was recognised, the appropriate portion of the loss is reversed.
Both impairment losses and reversals are recognised in the income statement as components of net finance charges.
-NM CDQHU@SHUD EHM@MBH@K KH@AHKHSHDR Non-derivative financial liabilities are initially recorded at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs, and subsequently at amortised cost.
Interest expense on borrowings is recognised using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless there is an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
#DQHU@SHUD EHM@MBH@K HMRSQTLDMSR Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are used to mitigate operating and investing transaction exposures to movements in jet fuel prices and currency exchange rates.
Hedge accounting is applied to these instruments.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 10 2 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Accoun $FFRXQWV RW ts & other KHU LQIRUPDWLR informationQ Changes in intrinsic fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent that the cash flow hedges are determined to be effective.
All other changes in fair value are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Where the hedged item is a non-financial asset, the accumulated gains and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income form part of the initial carrying amount of the asset.
Otherwise accumulated gains and losses are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged items affect the income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when a hedging instrument is derecognised e. g. through expiry or disposal, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Where the hedged item is a highly probable forecast transaction, the related gains and losses remain in shareholders equity until the transaction takes place.
When a hedged future transaction is no longer expected to occur, any related gains and losses held in shareholders equity are immediately recognised in the income statement.
%HM@MBH@K FT@Q@MSDDR If a claim on a financial guarantee given to a third party becomes probable, the obligation is recognised at fair value.
For subsequent measurement, the carrying amount is the higher of initial measurement and best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the reporting date.
3@W Tax expense in the income statement comprises both current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to other comprehensive income or shareholders equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income or shareholders equity.
The charge for current tax is based on the results for the year as adjusted for income that is exempt and expenses that are not deductible using tax rates that are applicable to the taxable income.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences relating to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, where it is probable that the recovery or settlement will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in the future, with the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither taxable income nor accounting profit: and deferred tax arising on investments in subsidiaries is not recognised where easyJet is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which recovery of assets and settlement of liabilities are expected to take place, based on tax rates or laws enacted or substantively enacted at the date of the statement of financial position.
Deferred tax assets represent amounts recoverable in future periods in respect of deductible temporary differences, losses and tax credits carried forwards.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be suitable taxable profits from which they can be deducted.
Deferred tax liabilities represent the amount of income taxes payable in future periods in respect of taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and it is the intention to settle these on a net basis.
HQBQ@ES L@HMSDM@MBD OQNUHRHNMR The accounting for the cost of providing major airframe and certain engine maintenance checks for owned and finance leased aircraft is described in the accounting policy for property, plant and equipment.
easyJet has contractual obligations to maintain aircraft held under operating leases.
Provisions are created over the term of the lease based on the estimated future costs of major airframe checks, engine shop visits and end of lease liabilities.
These costs are discounted to present value where the amount of the discount is considered material.
Where an aircraft is sold and leased back other than when first delivered to easyJet, a liability to undertake future maintenance activities, resulting from past flying activity, arises at the point the lease agreement is signed.
The cost is treated as part of the surplus or shortfall arising on the sale and leaseback, the accounting treatment of which is described in the leases accounting policy.
A number of leases also require easyJet to pay supplemental rent to the lessor.
The purpose of these payments is to provide the lessor with collateral should an aircraft be returned in a condition that does not meet the requirements of the lease.
Supplemental rent is either refunded when qualifying maintenance is performed, or when the lease ends.
com 103 $FFRXQWV RWKHU LQIRUPDWLRQ Notes to the accounts continued 6LJQLILFDQW DFFRXQWLQJ SROLFLHV continued $LOKNXDD ADMDEHSR easyJet contributes to defined contribution pension schemes for the benefit of employees.
easyJet has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of easyJet in independently administered funds.
easyJets contributions are charged to the income statement in the year in which they are incurred.
The expected cost of compensated holidays is recognised at the time that the related employees services are provided.
2G@QD B@OHS@K @MC CHUHCDMC CHRSQHATSHNM Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any Group company or employee benefits trust purchases the Companys equity shares, the consideration paid and any directly attributable incremental costs are deducted from retained earnings until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Proceeds from re-issue are shown as a credit to retained earnings.
easyJet settles share awards under the Long Term Incentive, Sharesave and Share Incentive Plans by purchasing its own shares on the market through employee benefit trusts.
The cost of such purchases is deducted from retained earnings in the period that the transaction occurs.
Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
2G@QD A@RDC O@XLDMSR easyJet has a number of equity-settled share incentive schemes.
The fair value of share options granted under the Discretionary and Sharesave scheme is measured at the date of grant using the Binomial Lattice option pricing model.
The fair value of grants under the Long Term Incentive Plan is measured at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model for awards based on ROCE performance targets, and the Stochastic model also known as the Monte Carlo model for awards based on total shareholder return TSR performance targets.
The fair value of all other awards is the share price at the date of grant.
The fair value of the estimated number of options and awards that are expected to vest is expensed to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period that employees services are rendered, with a corresponding increase in shareholders equity.
Where non market performance criteria such as ROCE attached to the share options and awards are not met, any cumulative expense previously recognised is reversed.
For awards with market related performance criteria such as TSR, an expense is recognised irrespective of whether the market condition is satisfied.
The social security obligations payable in connection with grant of the share options is an integral part of the grant itself and the charge is treated as a cash-settled transaction.
2DFLDMS@K CHRBKNRTQDR easyJet has one operating segment, being its route network, based on management information provided to the Executive Management Team: which is easyJets Chief Operating Decision Maker.
Resource allocation decisions are made for the benefit of the route network as a whole, rather than for individual routes within the network.
Performance of the network is assessed based on the consolidated profit or loss before tax for the year.
Revenue is allocated to geographic segments on the following bases: Revenue earned from passengers is allocated according to the location of the first departure airport on each booking: Commission revenue earned from partners is allocated according to the domicile of each partner.
LO@BS NE MDV RS@MC@QCR @MC HMSDQOQDS@SHNMR The following standards and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board have been implemented for the year ended 30 September 2013: 1DUHRDC RS@MC@QCR IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income IAS 12 Deferred Tax Recovery of Underlying Assets The adoption of these standards and interpretations has not led to any changes in accounting policies.
-DV @MC QDUHRDC RS@MC@QCR @MC HMSDQOQDS@SHNMR MNS @OOKHDC The following new or revised standards and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board have not been applied in preparing these accounts as their effective dates fall in periods beginning after 1 October 2013. easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 104 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Accoun $FFRXQWV RW ts & other KHU LQIRUPDWLR informationQ $EEDBSHUD ENQ SGD XD@Q DMCHMF 2DOSDLADQ IAS 19 Employee benefits IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards Government Loans IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement Annual Improvements to IFRS 2009 2011 Cycle $EEDBSHUD ENQ SGD XD@Q DMCHMF 2DOSDLADQ IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures IAS 32 Financial Instruments Presentation Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities IAS 36 Recoverable Amounts Disclosure for Non-Financial Assets IFRIC 21 Levies IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on easyJets accounts.
Certain of these standards and interpretations will, when adopted, require addition to or amendment of disclosures in the accounts.
1HW ILQDQFH FKDUJHV 2012 PLOOLRQ million, QWHUHVW UHFHLYDEOH DQG RWKHU ILQDQFLQJ LQFRPH Interest income 10 Net exchange gains on monetary assets and liabilities note 21 1 11, QWHUHVW SD DEOH DQG RWKHU ILQDQFLQJ FKDUJHV Interest payable on bank loans 20 Interest payable on finance lease obligations 5 Other interest payable Net exchange losses on monetary assets and liabilities note 21 25 14 3URILW EHIRUH WD[ The following have been included in arriving at profit before tax: 2012 PLOOLRQ million Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Owned assets 90 Assets held under finance leases 7 Operating lease rentals Aircraft 89 Other assets 5 TCHSNQR QDLTMDQ@SHNM During the year easyJet obtained the following services from easyJets auditors and their associates including foreign partners : 2012 PLOOLRQ million Group audit fee 0.4 Fees for other assurance services 0.4 Fees for other assurance services comprise reporting in connection with the Class 1 Shareholder Circular.
com 105 $FFRXQWV RWKHU LQIRUPDWLRQ Notes to the accounts continued PSOR HHV The average number of persons employed by easyJet was: 2012 Flight and ground operations 7,743 Sales, marketing and administration 463 8,206 Employee costs for easyJet were: 2012 PLOOLRQ million Wages and salaries 379 Social security costs 53 Pension costs 32 Share-based payments 12 476 Key management compensation was: 2012 PLOOLRQ million Short-term employee benefits 7 Share-based payments 4 11 The Directors of easyJet plc and the other members of the Executive Management Team are easyJets key management as they have collective authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the business.
Emoluments paid or payable to the Directors of easyJet plc were: 2012 PLOOLRQ million Remuneration 4 Gains made on the exercise of Long Term Incentive Plan awards Details of Directors remuneration are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 10 6 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Accoun $FFRXQWV RW ts & other KHU LQIRUPDWLR informationQ 7D[ FKDUJH Tax on profit on ordinary activities 2012 PLOOLRQ million &XUUHQW WD[ United Kingdom corporation tax 37 Foreign tax 11 Prior year adjustments Total current tax charge 48 'HIHUUHG WD[ Temporary differences relating to property, plant and equipment 42 Other temporary differences 8 Prior year adjustments 2 Change in tax rate 18 Total deferred tax credit charge 14 62 Effective tax rate 20% As a consequence of legislation being enacted in the year reducing the UK corporation tax rate to 20% from 1 April 2015, deferred tax in the year has been provided at 20% 2012: 23%.
The consequent reduction in deferred tax liabilities of 28 million 2012: 18 million is a credit to the income statement tax charge and so lowering the overall effective tax rate to 17% 2012: 20%.
1DBNMBHKH@SHNM NE SGD SNS@K S@W BG@QFD The tax for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK as set out below: 2012 PLOOLRQ million Profit on ordinary activities before tax 317 Tax charge at 23.5% 2012: 25% 79 Income not chargeable for tax purposes Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 7 Share-based payments 1 Adjustments in respect of prior years current tax Adjustments in respect of prior years deferred tax 2 Utilisation of previously unrecognised losses 5 Change in tax rate 18 62 Current tax liabilities at 30 September 2013 amounted to 58 million 2012: 29 million.
50 million of this relates to tax payable in the UK, the remaining amount of 8 million is in respect of tax due in other European countries.
During the year ended 30 September 2013, net cash tax paid amounted to 65 million 2012: 28 million.
com 107 $FFRXQWV RWKHU LQIRUPDWLRQ Notes to the accounts continued 7D[ FKDUJH continued 3@W NM HSDLR QDBNFMHRDC CHQDBSKX HM NSGDQ BNLOQDGDMRHUD HMBNLD NQ RG@QDGNKCDQR DPTHSX 2012 PLOOLRQ million &UHGLW FKDUJH WR RWKHU FRPSUHKHQVLYH LQFRPH Deferred tax on fair value movements of cash flow hedges 7 &UHGLW WR VKDUHKROGHUV HTXLW Current tax on share-based payments 1 Deferred tax on share-based payments 2 3 #DEDQQDC S@W The net deferred tax liability in the statement of financial position is as follows: $FFHOHUDWHG 6KRUW WHUP FDSLWDO WLPLQJ DLU YDOXH 6KDUH EDVHG DOORZDQFHV GLIIHUHQFHV JDLQV SD PHQWV 7RWDO PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ At 1 October 2012 Credited to income statement Credited to other comprehensive income Credited to shareholders equity $W 6HSWHPEHU Accelerated Short-term capital timing Fair value Share-based allowances differences gains payments Total million million million million million At 1 October 2011 120 39 23 3 179 Charged credited to income statement 26 9 1 2 14 Charged to other comprehensive income 7 7 Credited to shareholders equity 2 2 $W 6HSWHPEHU 146 30 29 7 198 It is estimated that deferred tax assets of approximately 18 million 2012: deferred tax liabilities of11 million will reverse during the next financial year.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where they relate to taxes levied by the same taxation authority.
As a result the net UK deferred tax liability is 152 million 2012: 212 million.
The net overseas deferred tax asset is 8 million 2012: 14 million.
No deferred tax liability has been recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries as no tax is expected to be payable in the foreseeable future based on the current repatriation policy of easyJet.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 108 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Accoun $FFRXQWV RW ts & other KHU LQIRUPDWLR informationQ DUQLQJV SHU VKDUH Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the profit for the year by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year after adjusting for shares held in employee benefit trusts.
To calculate diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential shares.
Share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year are considered to be dilutive potential shares.
Where share options are exercisable based on performance criteria and those performance criteria have been met during the year, these options are included in the calculation of dilutive potential shares.
Earnings per share is based on: 2012 PLOOLRQ million Profit for the year 255 2012 PLOOLRQ million Weighted average number of ordinary shares used to calculate basic earnings per share 408 Weighted average number of dilutive share options 5 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used to calculate diluted earnings per share 413 2012 DUQLQJV SHU VKDUH SHQFH pence Basic 62.5 Diluted 61.7 An ordinary dividend in respect of the year ended 30 September 2013 of 33.5 pence per share or 133 million 2012: 21.5 pence per share or 85 million, and a special dividend of 44.1 pence per share or 175 million is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
These accounts do not reflect these dividends payable.
RRGZLOO DQG RWKHU LQWDQJLEOH DVVHWV 2WKHU LQWDQJLEOH DVVHWV DQGLQJ &RQWUDFWXDO &RPSXWHU RRGZLOO ULJKWV ULJKWV VRIWZDUH 7RWDO PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ &RVW At 1 October 2012 Additions Transfer from property, plant and equipment Disposals $W 6HSWHPEHU $PRUWLVDWLRQ At 1 October 2012 Charge for the year Disposals $W 6HSWHPEHU 1HW ERRN YDOXH $W 6HSWHPEHU At 1 October 2012 In May 2013, easyJet entered into a conditional agreement with Flybe to exchange certain landing rights at Gatwick Airport.
Under this agreement, 7 million was paid in August 2013 when the transaction was approved by Flybes shareholders.
Provided Flybe meets its obligations to exchange those landing rights during the coming financial year, further consideration totalling 13 million will become payable.
As these obligations had not been met at 30 September 2013, this amount has not been recognised as a liability in the statement of financial position.
com 109 $FFRXQWV RWKHU LQIRUPDWLRQ Notes to the accounts continued RRGZLOO DQG RWKHU LQWDQJLEOH DVVHWV continued Other intangible assets Landing Contractual Computer Goodwill rights rights software Total million million million million million &RVW At 1 October 2011 365 74 4 25 103 Transfer from property, plant and equipment 13 13 Disposals 3 3 6 $W 6HSWHPEHU 365 74 1 35 110 $PRUWLVDWLRQ At 1 October 2011 3 14 17 Charge for the year 8 8 Disposals 3 3 6 $W 6HSWHPEHU 19 19 1HW ERRN YDOXH $W 6HSWHPEHU 365 74 1 16 91 At 1 October 2011 365 74 1 11 86 easyJet has one cash generating unit, being its route network.
The recoverable amount of goodwill and other assets with indefinite expected useful lives has been determined based on value in use calculations of the route network.
Pre-tax cash flow projections have been derived from the strategic plan approved by the Board for the period up to 2018, using the following key assumptions: Pre-tax discount rate derived from weighted average cost of capital 10.2%-10.5% Fuel price US dollars per metric tonne 1,100 Exchange rates: US dollar 1.55 euro 1.17 Swiss franc 1.44 Both fuel price and exchange rates are volatile in nature, and the assumptions used represent managements view of reasonable average rates.
Operating margins are sensitive to significant changes in these rates.
Cash flow projections beyond the forecast period have been extrapolated using growth rate scenarios ranging from zero up to an estimated average of long-term economic growth rates for the principal countries in which easyJet operates.
No impairment resulted from any of these scenarios.
No reasonably possible combination of changes to the key assumptions above would result in the carrying value of the cash-generating unit exceeding its recoverable amount.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 11 0 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Accoun $FFRXQWV RW ts & other KHU LQIRUPDWLR informationQ 3URSHUW SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW $LUFUDIW DQG VSDUHV 2WKHU 7RWDO PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ &RVW At 1 October 2012 Additions Aircraft sold and leased back Transfer to intangible assets Transfer to maintenance provision Disposals $W 6HSWHPEHU 'HSUHFLDWLRQ At 1 October 2012 Charge for the year Aircraft sold and leased back Disposals $W 6HSWHPEHU 1HW ERRN YDOXH $W 6HSWHPEHU At 1 October 2012 Aircraft and spares Other Total million million million &RVW At 1 October 2011 2,410 27 2,437 Additions 371 21 392 Transfer to intangible assets 13 13 Transfer to maintenance provision 34 34 Disposals 2 6 8 $W 6HSWHPEHU 2,745 29 2,774 'HSUHFLDWLRQ At 1 October 2011 276 12 288 Charge for the year 93 4 97 Disposals 1 5 6 $W 6HSWHPEHU 368 11 379 1HW ERRN YDOXH $W 6HSWHPEHU 2,377 18 2,395 At 1 October 2011 2,134 15 2,149 The net book value of aircraft includes 196 million 2012: 88 million relating to advance and option payments for future deliveries.
This amount is not depreciated.
Aircraft with a net book value of 664 million 2012: 990 million are mortgaged to lenders as loan security.
Aircraft with a net book value of 147 million 2012: 154 million are held under finance leases.
easyJet is contractually committed to the acquisition of 144 2012: 18 Airbus A320 family aircraft, with a total list price of US$12.4 billion 2012: US$1.0 billion before escalations and discounts for delivery in 2014 9 aircraft, 2015 to 2017 35 aircraft and 2017 to 2022 100 new generation aircraft.
Subsequent to the year end, easyJet has exercised options for the acquisition of six aircraft, for delivery in 2015, with a total list price of $458 million.
The other category mainly comprises leasehold improvements, computer hardware and fixtures, fittings and equipment.
com 111 $FFRXQWV RWKHU LQIRUPDWLRQ Notes to the accounts continued RDQ QRWHV In 2001, easyJet in consortium with six other UK airlines formed The Airline Group Limited in order to acquire a non-controlling interest in NATS, the company that owns the UK air traffic control system.
easyJets investment is principally in the form of unsecured loan notes bearing interest at a fixed rate of 8%.
Interest receivable is settled by the issue of additional loan notes.
Redemption is governed by a priority agreement among the consortium members.
2012 PLOOLRQ million At 1 October 11 Interest receivable converted to loan notes 1 Redemption of loan notes 2 $W 6HSWHPEHU 10 2WKHU QRQ FXUUHQW DVVHWV 2012 PLOOLRQ million Deferred consideration and deposits held by aircraft lessors 17 Leased aircraft shortfall on sale and leaseback Recoverable supplemental rent pledged as collateral 36 Other 4 57 Supplemental rent is pledged to lessors to provide collateral should an aircraft be returned in a condition that does not meet the requirements of the lease and is refunded when qualifying heavy maintenance is performed, or is offset against the costs incurred at the end of the lease.
7UDGH DQG RWKHU UHFHLYDEOHV 2012 PLOOLRQ million Trade receivables 124 Less provision for impairment 4 120 Prepayments and accrued income 82 Leased aircraft shortfall on sale and leaseback Recoverable supplemental rent pledged as collateral 6 Other receivables 33 241 The following amounts of trade and other receivables are past due but not impaired: 2012 PLOOLRQ million Up to three months past due 52 Over three months past due 1 53 With respect to trade receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there are no indications at the reporting date that the payment obligations will not be met.
Amounts due from trade receivables are short-term in nature and largely comprise credit card receivables due from financial institutions with credit ratings of at least A and, accordingly, the possibility of significant default is considered to be unlikely.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 112 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Accoun $FFRXQWV RW ts & other KHU LQIRUPDWLR informationQ &DVK DQG PRQH PDUNHW GHSRVLWV 2012 PLOOLRQ million Cash and cash equivalents original maturity less than three months 645 Money market deposits original maturity more than three months 238 Current restricted cash 130 Non-current restricted cash 29 1,042 Interest rates on money market deposits and restricted cash are repriced within 185 days based on prevailing market rates of interest.
Carrying value is not significantly different from fair value.
Restricted cash comprises: 2012 PLOOLRQ million Pledged as collateral to third parties: Payment card acquiring 130 Aircraft operating lease deposits 25 Other 4 159 7UDGH DQG RWKHU SD DEOHV 2012 PLOOLRQ million Trade payables 109 Unearned revenue 496 Accruals 327 Leased aircraft surplus on sale and leaseback 11 Other taxes and social security 13 Other payables 65 1,021 %RUURZLQJV &XUUHQW 1RQ FXUUHQW 7RWDO $W 6HSWHPEHU PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ Bank loans Finance lease obligations Current Non-current Total At 30 September 2012 million million million Bank loans 120 632 752 Finance lease obligations 9 196 205 129 828 957 Bank loans, which bear interest at variable rates linked to LIBOR, were drawn down to finance the acquisition of aircraft that have been mortgaged to the lender to provide security.
None of the agreements contain financial covenants required to be met.
Finance lease obligations relate to aircraft and bear interest partly at fixed rates and partly at variable rates linked to LIBOR.
The maturity profile of borrowings is set out in note 22. www.
com 113 $FFRXQWV RWKHU LQIRUPDWLRQ Notes to the accounts continued 1RQ FXUUHQW GHIHUUHG LQFRPH Deferred income principally comprises the non-current surplus of sale proceeds over fair value of aircraft that have been sold and leased back under operating leases.
This balance will be realised in the income statement over the next nine years.
0DLQWHQDQFH SURYLVLRQV million At 1 October 2012 200 Exchange adjustments 2 Charged to income statement 58 Related to aircraft sold and leased back 68 Transfer from property, plant and equipment 43 Utilised 29 $W 6HSWHPEHU Amounts transferred from property, plant and equipment relate to aircraft life-limited parts used in engine restoration in the year.
Maintenance provisions are analysed as follows: 2012 PLOOLRQ million Current 59 Non-current 141 200 The provision for maintenance liabilities is expected to be utilised within nine years.
6KDUH FDSLWDO Number Nominal value 2012 2012 PLOOLRQ million PLOOLRQ million $XWKRULVHG At 30 September 2013 and 30 September 2012 Ordinary shares of 27 2 7 pence each 458 125 $OORWWHG FDOOHG XS DQG IXOO SDLG At 1 October 431 108 Issued during the year under share incentive schemes 1 Effect of share consolidation 36 $W 6HSWHPEHU 396 108 In March 2012, following a special dividend, the shares of easyJet plc were consolidated.
The share consolidation replaced 2 every 12 existing ordinary shares of 25 pence each with 11 new ordinary shares of 27 pence each.
The impact of the share 7 consolidation on the number of allotted, called up and fully paid shares in the prior year was 36 million.
There was no change in the total value of the Companys issued share capital.
The weighted average share price for options exercised during the year was 10.57 2012: 4.57. easyJets employee benefit trusts hold the following unvested shares.
The cost of these has been deducted from retained earnings: 2012 Number of shares million 3 Cost million 12 Market value at year end million 17 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 114 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Accoun $FFRXQWV RW ts & other KHU LQIRUPDWLR informationQ 6KDUH LQFHQWLYH VFKHPHV easyJet operates the following share incentive schemes, all of which are equity settled.
The change in the number of awards outstanding and weighted average exercise prices during the year, and the number exercisable at each year end were as follows: 1 October 6HSWHPEHU 2012 Granted Forfeited Exercised Grant date million million million million PLOOLRQ 'LVFUHWLRQDU VFKHPHV 19 January 2004 0.2 0.1 8 December 2004 1.4 0.7 RQJ 7HUP, QFHQWLYH 3ODQ 16 January 2009 0.3 0.2 16 December 2009 0.9 0.1 0.6 5 July 2010 0.5 0.3 31 March 2011 2.3 0.1 4 January 2012 2.7 0.1 18 December 2012 1.3 6KDUHVDYH 5 June 2009 0.2 0.1 0.1 10 June 2010 0.3 0.3 1 July 2011 2.2 0.1 1 July 2012 1.0 1 July 2013 0.6 6KDUH, QFHQWLYH 3ODQ 5.5 1.0 0.1 0.6 17.5 2.9 0.6 2.9 Weighted average exercise prices are as follows: 1 October 6HSWHPEHU 2012 Granted Forfeited Exercised Discretionary schemes 2.11 2.13 Sharesave 3.249.693.183.10 The exercise price of all awards save those disclosed in the above table is nil.
The number of awards exercisable at each year end and their weighted average exercise price is as follows: Price Number million 2012 2012 Discretionary schemes 2.11 1.6 Long Term Incentive Plan 0.3 Sharesave 2.43 0.2 Share Incentive Plan 0.8 2.9 www.
com 115 $FFRXQWV RWKHU LQIRUPDWLRQ Notes to the accounts continued 6KDUH LQFHQWLYH VFKHPHV continued The weighted average remaining contractual life for each class of share award at 30 September 2013 is as follows: HDUV Discretionary schemes Long Term Incentive Plan Sharesave Share Incentive Plan #HRBQDSHNM@QX RBGDLDR All awards have a three year vesting period and performance conditions based on growth in earnings per share.
All options expire ten years after grant.
NMF 3DQL MBDMSHUD K@M The plan is open, by invitation, to Executive Directors and senior management, and provides for annual awards of Performance Shares worth up to 200% of salary each year and matching shares linked to the investment of up to 50% of annual bonus in easyJet shares.
The vesting of these shares is dependent on return on capital employed ROCE targets and a positive total shareholder return TSR versus FTSE 51-150 being achieved.
2G@QDR@UD Sharesave is open to all employees on the UK payroll.
Participants may elect to save up to 250 per month under a three year savings contract.
An option is granted by the Company to buy shares at a discount of 20% from market price at the time of the grant.
At the end of the savings period, a tax free bonus is applied to the savings and the option becomes exercisable for a period of six months.
Employees who are not paid through the UK payroll may save under similar terms and conditions, albeit without tax benefits.
2G@QD MBDMSHUD K@M The plan is open to all employees on the UK payroll.
Participants may invest up to 1,500 of their pre-tax salary each year to purchase partnership shares in easyJet.
For each partnership share acquired easyJet purchases a matching share.
Employees must remain with easyJet for three years from the date of purchase of each partnership share in order to qualify for the matching share, and for five years for the shares to be transferred to them tax free.
The employee is entitled to dividends and to vote at shareholder meetings.
Employees on the Swiss payroll may save under similar terms and conditions, albeit without tax benefits.
Subject to company performance, easyJet also issues free shares under the new approved share incentive plan of up to 3,000 in value.
There is a similar unapproved scheme for international employees.
The fair value of grants under the Discretionary and Sharesave is estimated by applying the Binomial Lattice option pricing model.
The fair value of grants under the total shareholder return based Long Term Incentive Plan is estimated under the Stochastic model also known as the Monte Carlo model.
The fair value of grants under all other schemes is the share price on the date of grant.
The following assumptions are used: easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 11 6 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Accoun $FFRXQWV RW ts & other KHU LQIRUPDWLR informationQ Share Exercise Expected Risk-free Fair price price volatility Option life interest rate value Grant date % years % 'LVFUHWLRQDU VFKHPHV 19 January 2004 3.80 3.60 40% 6.5 4.62% 1.90 8 December 2004 1.81 1.84 42% 6.5 4.45% 0.88 RQJ 7HUP, QFHQWLYH 3ODQ 16 January 2009 2.88 2.88 16 December 2009 and 5 July 2010 3.49 3.49 31 March 2011 3.41 3.41 4 January 2012 3.92 3.92 18 December 2012 ROCE 7.37 6.92 18 December 2012 TSR 7.37 33% 3.0 0.44% 5.16 6KDUHVDYH 1 July 2011 3.60 2.88 46% 3.5 1.45% 1.37 1 July 2012 5.23 4.18 35% 3.5 0.24% 1.77 1 July 2013 12.11 9.69 34% 3.5 0.32% 3.54 Share price is the closing share price from the last working day prior to the date of grant.
Exercise price for the discretionary schemes was determined using a five-day weighted average price.
For the Sharesave scheme, exercise price is set at a 20% discount from share price.
Expected volatility is based on historical volatility over a period comparable to the expected life of each type of option.
Levels of early exercises and forfeitures are estimated using historical averages.
The weighted average fair value of matching shares granted under the Share Incentive Plan during the year was 9.77 2012: 4.96.
For grants under the Sharesave scheme after 30 September 2011, the dividend yield assumption is calculated based on the actual yield at the date the options are granted.
For the options granted on 1 July 2012 and 1 July 2013, the dividend yield assumption was 2%.
5HFRQFLOLDWLRQ RI RSHUDWLQJ SURILW WR FDVK JHQHUDWHG IURP RSHUDWLRQV 2012 PLOOLRQ million Operating profit 331 $GMXVWPHQWV IRU QRQ FDVK LWHPV Depreciation 97 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1 Amortisation of intangible assets 8 Share-based payments 12 &KDQJHV LQ ZRUNLQJ FDSLWDO DQG RWKHU LWHPV RI DQ RSHUDWLQJ QDWXUH Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 44 Increase in trade and other payables 74 Increase in provisions 18 Decrease in other non-current assets 6 Increase in derivative financial instruments 4 Decrease in non-current deferred income 13 494 www.
"com 117 $FFRXQWV RWKHU LQIRUPDWLRQ Notes to the accounts continued 5HFRQFLOLDWLRQ RI QHW FDVK IORZ WR PRYHPHQW LQ QHW GHEW IXQGV 1 October Exchange 6HSWHPEHU 2012 differences Loan issue costs Net cash flow million million million million PLOOLRQ Cash and cash equivalents 645 29 397 Money market deposits 238 27 41 883 2 356 Bank loans 752 2 3 273 Finance lease obligations 205 10 957 2 3 283 1HW GHEW IXQGV 74 4 3 639 LQDQFLDO LQVWUXPHQWV ""@QQXHMF U@KTD @MC E@HQ U@KTD NE EHM@MBH@K @RRDSR @MC KH@AHKHSHDR The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying value at each reporting date are as follows: HOG DW $PRUWLVHG FRVW IDLU YDOXH RDQV DQG LQDQFLDO &DVK IORZ &DUU LQJ DLU UHFHLYDEOHV OLDELOLWLHV KHGJH 2WKHU YDOXH YDOXH $W 6HSWHPEHU PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ Loan notes Other non-current assets Trade and other receivables Trade and other payables Derivative financial instruments Restricted cash Money market deposits Cash and cash equivalents Borrowings Amortised cost Held at fair value Loans and Financial Cash flow Held for Fair receivables liabilities hedge trading Other Carrying value value At 30 September 2012 million million million million million million million Loan notes 10 10 10 Other non-current assets 53 4 57 57 Trade and other receivables 195 46 241 241 Trade and other payables 454 567 1,021 1,021 Derivative financial instruments 53 9 44 44 Restricted cash 159 159 159 Money market deposits 238 238 238 Cash and cash equivalents 645 645 645 Borrowings 957 957 965 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 11 8 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Accoun $FFRXQWV RW ts & other KHU LQIRUPDWLR informationQ Amounts disclosed in the Other column are items that do not meet the definition of a financial instrument."
They are disclosed to facilitate reconciliation of the carrying values of financial instruments to line items presented in the statement of financial position.
%@HQ U@KTD B@KBTK@SHNM LDSGNCNKNFX Derivative financial instruments are forward contracts that are valued based on market rates and market-accepted models.
Fair value for financial instruments held at amortised cost has been estimated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying year end exchange rates.
%@HQ U@KTD NE CDQHU@SHUD EHM@MBH@K HMRSQTLDMSR 1RQ FXUUHQW &XUUHQW &XUUHQW 1RQ FXUUHQW 4XDQWLW DVVHWV DVVHWV OLDELOLWLHV OLDELOLWLHV 7RWDO $W 6HSWHPEHU PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ Designated as cash flow hedges US dollar Euro Swiss franc Jet fuel Non-current Current Current Non-current Quantity assets assets liabilities liabilities Total At 30 September 2012 million million million million million million Designated as cash flow hedges US dollar 3,204 1 4 11 15 21 Euro 653 5 20 25 Swiss franc 202 1 4 5 Jet fuel 2 14 45 6 9 44 Designated as held for trading US dollar 850 9 9 21 73 26 24 44 For currency contracts, quantity represents the nominal value of currency contracts held, disclosed in the contract currency.
For jet fuel contracts, quantity represents contracted metric tonnes.
All derivative financial instruments are in level 2 of the IFRS 7 fair value hierarchy.
#DQHU@SHUDR CDRHFM@SDC @R B@RG EKNV GDCFDR All derivatives to which hedge accounting is applied are designated as cash flow hedges.
Changes in fair value are recognised directly in other comprehensive income, to the extent that they are effective, with the ineffective portion being recognised in the income statement.
Where the hedged item is a non-financial asset, the accumulated gains and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the carrying value of that asset.
Otherwise accumulated gains and losses are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects the income statement.
easyJet uses forward contracts to hedge US dollar transaction currency risk comprising fuel, leasing and maintenance payments, jet fuel price risk and euro and Swiss franc revenues.
Where these hedges are assessed as highly effective, gains and losses are deferred in other comprehensive income and transferred to the income statement when the related cash flow occurs.
com 119 $FFRXQWV RWKHU LQIRUPDWLRQ Notes to the accounts continued LQDQFLDO LQVWUXPHQWV continued The cumulative net losses gains deferred in shareholders equity and their expected maturities are as follows: :LWKLQ HDU HDUV 7RWDO $W 6HSWHPEHU PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ Hedges of transaction currency risk Hedges of jet fuel price risk Related deferred tax Within 1 year 1-2 years Total At 30 September 2012 million million million Hedges of transaction currency risk 17 8 9 Hedges of jet fuel price risk 39 5 44 56 3 53 Related deferred tax 11 42 2012 PLOOLRQ million Gains on cash flow hedges recycled from other comprehensive income in income statement captions: Revenue 21 Fuel 51 Maintenance Aircraft lease costs 1 Other costs 1 74 #DQHU@SHUDR CDRHFM@SDC @R GDKC ENQ SQ@CHMF easyJet had material net monetary liabilities denominated in US dollars at 30 September 2012.
In accordance with IAS21, monetary assets and liabilities are revalued using exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
This exposure is managed by the use of forward foreign exchange contracts.
Net US dollar monetary liabilities were as follows: 2012 $ million Cash and money market deposits 619 Borrowings 1,245 Maintenance provisions 280 Other 39 Net monetary liabilities 867 Forward US dollar contracts 850 17 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 12 0 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Accoun $FFRXQWV RW ts & other KHU LQIRUPDWLR informationQ Amounts recorded in the income statement in respect of revaluation of monetary assets and liabilities and the gains and losses on derivatives designated as held for trading are as follows: 2012 PLOOLRQ million Unrealised revaluation losses gains on non-derivative financial instruments 8 Realised foreign exchange losses gains on non-derivative financial instruments 10 Unrealised revaluation gains on other monetary assets and liabilities 7 Unrealised gains losses on derivative financial instruments 16 Realised losses on derivative financial instruments 8 Net losses gains note 2 1 LQDQFLDO ULVN DQG FDSLWDO PDQDJHPHQW easyJet is exposed to financial risks including fluctuations in exchange rates, jet fuel prices and interest rates.
Financial risk management aims to limit these market risks with selected derivative hedging instruments being used for this purpose.
easyJet policy is not to trade in derivatives but to use the instruments to hedge anticipated exposure.
As such, easyJet is not exposed to market risk by using derivatives as any gains and losses arising are offset by the outcome of the underlying exposure being hedged.
In addition to market risks, easyJet is exposed to credit and liquidity risk.
The Board is responsible for setting financial risk and capital management policies and objectives which are implemented by the treasury function on a day to day basis.
The policy outlines the approach to risk management and also states the instruments and time periods which the treasury function is authorised to use in managing financial risks.
The policy is regularly reviewed to ensure best practice, however there have been no significant changes during the current year.
"""@OHS@K DLOKNXDC Capital employed comprises shareholders equity, borrowings, cash and money market deposits excluding restricted cash and an adjustment for the capital implicit in aircraft operating lease arrangements."
The adjustment is calculated by multiplying the annual charge for aircraft dry leasing by a factor of seven, in line with accepted practice for the airline industry.
Normalised operating profit is adjusted for the implied interest incorporated in the charge for aircraft dry leasing.
Consequently, the capital employed at the end of the current and prior year and the return earned during those years were as follows: 2012 PLOOLRQ million Shareholders equity 1,794 Borrowings 957 Cash and money market deposits excluding restricted cash 883 Reported capital employed 1,868 Operating leases adjustment 665 Capital employed including operating leases adjustment 2,533 Operating profit reported 331 Implied interest in operating lease costs 32 Operating profit adjusted 363 Operating profit after tax adjusted 276 Return on capital employed 11.3% The percentage of operating leased aircrafts at 30 September 2013 was 33% 2012: 26%.
Board policy is to hold around 30% of the fleet under operating lease arrangements to provide an appropriate degree of flexibility in fleet size.
"com 121 $FFRXQWV RWKHU LQIRUPDWLRQ Notes to the accounts continued LQDQFLDO ULVN DQG FDSLWDO PDQDJHPHQW continued ""@OHS@K L@M@FDLDMS The objective of capital management is to ensure that easyJet is able to continue as a going concern whilst delivering shareholder expectations of a strong capital base as well as returning benefits for other stakeholders and optimising the cost of capital."
easyJet manages its capital structure in response to changes in both economic conditions and strategic objectives.
The cash and net debt position, together with the maturity profile of existing debt, is monitored to ensure the continuity of funding.
The principal measure used by easyJet to manage capital risk is the gearing ratio of debt defined as debt plus seven times aircraft operating lease payments less cash, including money market deposits.
HPTHCHSX QHRJ L@M@FDLDMS The objective of easyJets liquidity risk management is to ensure sufficient cash resources and the availability of funding as required.
easyJet holds financial assets either for which there is a liquid market or which are expected to generate cash inflows that are available to meet liquidity needs.
easyJet continues to hold significant cash and liquid funds to mitigate the impact of potential business disruption events with Board approved policy stating a target level of liquidity of 4 million per aircraft in the fleet.
Total cash excluding restricted cash and money market deposits at 30 September 2013 was 1,237 million 2012: 883 million.
Surplus funds are invested in high quality short-term liquid instruments, usually money market funds or bank deposits.
The maturity profile of financial liabilities based on undiscounted gross cash flows and contractual maturities is as follows: :LWKLQ 2YHU HDU HDUV HDUV HDUV $W 6HSWHPEHU PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ Borrowings Trade and other payables Derivative contracts receipts Derivative contracts payments Within Over 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years At 30 September 2012 million million million million Borrowings 146140467 288 Trade and other payables 454 Derivative contracts receipts 2,943 1,821 Derivative contracts payments 2,874 1,790 The maturity profile has been calculated based on spot rates for the US dollar, euro, Swiss franc and jet fuel at close of business on 30 September each year.
"""QDCHS QHRJ L@M@FDLDMS easyJet is exposed to credit risk arising from cash and money market deposits, derivative financial instruments and trade and other receivables."
Credit risk management aims to reduce the risk of default by setting limits on credit exposure to counterparties based on their respective credit ratings.
Credit ratings also determine the maximum period of investment when placing funds on deposit.
Credit risk is limited to the carrying amount in the statement of financial position at each year end.
Counterparties for cash investments, currency forward contracts and jet fuel forward contracts are required to have a credit rating of A or better at contract inception.
Exposures to those counterparties are regularly reviewed and, when the market view of a counterpartys credit quality changes, adjusted as considered appropriate.
Accordingly in normal market conditions, the probability of material loss due to non-performance by counterparties is considered to be low.
Disclosure relating to the credit quality of trade and other receivables is given in note 11 to the accounts.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 12 2 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Accoun $FFRXQWV RW ts & other KHU LQIRUPDWLR informationQ %NQDHFM BTQQDMBX QHRJ L@M@FDLDMS The principal exposure to currency exchange rates arises from fluctuations in both the US dollar and euro rates which impact operating, financing and investing activities.
The aim of foreign currency risk management is to reduce the impact of exchange rate volatility on the results of easyJet.
Foreign exchange exposure arising from transactions in various currencies is reduced through a policy of matching, as far as possible, receipts and payments in each individual currency.
Any remaining significant anticipated exposure is managed through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts.
In addition, easyJet has substantial US dollar balance sheet liabilities, partly offset by holding US dollar cash.
In the prior year, the residual liability was managed using forward foreign exchange contracts.
%HM@MBHMF @MC HMSDQDRS Q@SD QHRJ L@M@FDLDMS Interest rate cash flow risk arises on floating rate borrowings and cash investments.
Interest rate risk management policy aims to provide certainty in a proportion of financing while retaining the opportunity to benefit from interest rate reductions.
Interest rate policy is used to achieve the desired mix of fixed and floating rate debt.
All borrowings are at floating interest rates repricing every three to six months.
A significant proportion of US dollar loans by value are matched with US dollar cash, with the cash being invested to coincide with the repricing of the debt.
Operating leases are a mix of fixed and floating rates.
Of the 72 operating leases in place at 30 September 2013 2012: 55, 75% were based on fixed interest rates and 25% were based on floating interest rates 2012: 75% fixed, 25% floating.
All debt is asset related, reflecting the capital intensive nature of the airline industry and the attractiveness of aircraft as security to lenders.
These factors are also reflected in the medium term profile of easyJets borrowings and operating leases.
As at 30 September 2013, the Company had 78 2012: 69 unencumbered aircraft.
%TDK OQHBD QHRJ L@M@FDLDMS easyJet is exposed to fuel price risk.
The objective of the fuel price risk management policy is to provide protection against sudden and significant increases in jet fuel prices, thus mitigating volatility in the income statement in the short-term.
In order to manage the risk exposure, forward contracts are used in line with Board approved policy to hedge between 65% and 85% of estimated exposures up to 12 months in advance, and to hedge between 45% and 65% of estimated exposures from 13 up to 24 months in advance.
In exceptional market conditions, the Board may accelerate or limit the implementation of the hedging policy.
@QJDS QHRJ RDMRHSHUHSX @M@KXRHR Financial instruments affected by market risk include borrowings, deposits, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables and derivative financial instruments.
The following analysis illustrates the sensitivity of such financial instruments to changes in relevant foreign exchange rates, interest rates and fuel prices.
It should be noted that the analysis reflects the impact on profit or loss after tax for the year and other comprehensive income on financial instruments held at the reporting date.
It does not reflect changes in revenue or costs that may result from changing currency rates, interest rates or fuel prices.
Sensitivity is calculated based on all other variables remaining constant.
The analysis is considered representative of easyJets exposure over the 12 month period.
The currency sensitivity analysis is based on easyJets foreign currency financial instruments held at each statement of financial position date taking into account forward exchange contracts that offset effects from changes in currency exchange rates.
The increased sensitivity in the US dollar and euro rate represents sterling weakening against each variable currency with the -10% sensitivity reflecting stronger sterling.
The interest rate analysis assumes a 1% change in interest rates over the reporting year applied to end of year financial instruments.
The fuel price sensitivity analysis is based on easyJets fuel related derivative financial instruments held at the end of each reporting period.
The impact of a 1% increase in interest rates and a 10% increase in the fuel price is disclosed.
A corresponding decrease results in an equal and opposite impact on the income statement and other comprehensive income in both reporting periods.
Sensitivities are calculated based on a reasonably possible change in the rate applied to the value of financial instruments held at each statement of financial position date.
com 123 $FFRXQWV RWKHU LQIRUPDWLRQ Notes to the accounts continued LQDQFLDO ULVN DQG FDSLWDO PDQDJHPHQW continued &XUUHQF UDWHV 86 GROODU 86 GROODU XUR XUR, QWHUHVW UDWHV XHO SULFH LQFUHDVH LQFUHDVH $W 6HSWHPEHU PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ PLOOLRQ Income statement impact: gain loss Impact on other comprehensive income: increase decrease Currency rates US dollar US dollar Euro Euro Interest rates Fuel price 10% -10% 10% -10% 1% increase 10% increase At 30 September 2012 million million million million million million Income statement impact: gain loss 17 13 3 2 1 Impact on other comprehensive income: increase decrease 164 134 43 35 111 The market risk sensitivity analysis has been calculated based on spot rates for the US dollar, euro and jet fuel at close of business on 30 September each year.
HDVLQJ FRPPLWPHQWV Commitments under operating leases Aircraft Other 2012 2012 PLOOLRQ million PLOOLRQ million 7RWDO FRPPLWPHQWV XQGHU QRQ FDQFHOODEOH RSHUDWLQJ OHDVHV GXH Not later than one year 85 2 Later than one year and not later than five years 214 2 Later than five years 51 2 350 6 easyJet holds 72 aircraft 2012: 55 aircraft under operating leases, with initial lease terms ranging from five to ten years.
easyJet is contractually obliged to carry out maintenance on these aircraft, and the cost of this is provided based on the number of flying hours and cycles operated.
Further details are given in the critical accounting policies section of note 1.
"""NLLHSLDMSR TMCDQ EHM@MBD KD@RDR 2012 PLOOLRQ million 0LQLPXP OHDVH SD PHQWV IDOO GXH DV IROORZV Not later than one year 14 Later than one year and not later than five years 129 Later than five years 93 236 Future finance charges 31 205 easyJet holds 11 2012: 11 aircraft under finance leases with 10 year initial terms."
Further details are given in notes 8 and 14.
&RQWLQJHQW OLDELOLWLHV easyJet is involved in a number of disputes and litigation which arose in the normal course of business.
The likely outcome of these disputes and litigation cannot be predicted, and in complex cases reliable estimates of any potential obligation may not be possible.
Having reviewed the information currently available, management considers that the ultimate resolution of these disputes and litigation is unlikely to have a material adverse effect on easyJets results, cash flows or financial position.
At 30 September 2013 easyJet had outstanding letters of credit and performance bonds totalling 40 million 2012: 37 million, of which 37 million 2012: 34 million expires within one year.
The fair value of these instruments at each year end was negligible.
No amount is recognised on the statement of financial position in respect of any of these financial instruments as it is not probable that there will be an outflow of resources.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 12 4 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Accoun $FFRXQWV RW ts & other KHU LQIRUPDWLR informationQ HRJUDSKLFDO UHYHQXH DQDO VLV 2012 PLOOLRQ million United Kingdom 1,761 Southern Europe 1,310 Northern Europe 738 Other 45 3,854 Southern Europe comprises countries lying wholly or mainly south of the border between Italy and Switzerland, plus France.
easyJets non-current assets principally comprise its fleet of 134 owned and 11 finance leased aircraft.
A further 72 aircraft are held under operating leases, giving a total fleet of 217 at 30 September 2013.
All of these aircraft are registered in the United Kingdom except for 22 registered in Switzerland.
These assets are used flexibly across the entire route network, and accordingly there is no suitable basis for allocating them to geographic segments.
5HODWHG SDUW WUDQVDFWLRQV The Company licences the easyJet brand from easyGroup IP Licensing Limited easyGroup, a wholly owned subsidiary of easyGroup Holdings Limited, an entity which easyJets founder, Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou, holds a beneficial interest and holds 25.91% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Under the Amended Brand Licence signed in October 2010, an annual royalty of 0.25% of total revenue is payable for a minimum term of ten years.
The full term of agreement is 50 years.
A new brand protection protocol was also agreed, under which easyJet will contribute up to 1 million per annum to meet the costs to protect the easy and easyJet brands and easyGroup will contribute 100,000 per annum.
Beyond the first 1.1 million of costs, easyJet can commit up to an aggregate 5.5 million annually to meet brand protection costs, with easyGroup continuing to meet its share of costs on a 10:1 ratio.
easyJet must meet 100% of any brand protection costs it wishes to incur above this limit.
A separate agreement has been entered with Sir Stelios the Comfort Letter, dated 9 October 2010, under which, in return for certain non-compete obligations, easyJet makes payment of a fee of 300,000, adjusted annually per the UK Retail Price index, each year for five years or until the expiry of the longest subsisting restriction, whichever is later.
Whilst certain of those obligations have since expired, remaining in force are the following: For three years from the date of the Comfort Letter, to not sell the easyJet brand or the shares in easyGroup IP Holdings Limited to any airline licensed in any EEA country, or Switzerland, or the owner or indirect owner of such airline.
For five years from the date of the Comfort Letter, Sir Stelios shall not use his own name or a derivative thereof to brand an airline flying to or from any EEA country, or Switzerland.
The Amended Brand Licence and Comfort Letter were approved by the shareholders at a general meeting held on 10 December 2010.
The amounts included in the income statement for the year ended 30 September 2013 for these items were as follows: 2012 PLOOLRQ million Annual royalty 5.0 Brand protection legal fees paid through easyGroup to third parties 1.2 Agreement with Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou 0.3 6.5 For the year ended 30 September 2013, the annual royalty is based on 0.25% of total revenue.
In the prior year, the royalty was based on a fixed fee as per the Amended Brand Licence.
At 30 September 2013, 1.1 million 2012: 0.2 million of the above aggregate amount was included in trade and other payables.
