SHAREHOLDERS GLOSSARY Black Belt LWA Aggreko Black Belts undertake a year of intensive Sound power level at source.
training in continuous improvement, spanning a blend MW of operations improvement, project management, Megawatt a million watts of electricity.
change management and lean six sigma tools and techniques.
The Black Belts focus is on the delivery NOx of major, and often, Group-wide improvement projects Oxides of nitrogen.
and also in the training of our Orange Belts.
Orange Belt Names that are in bold and coloured black on the The Orange Belts are trained for two weeks in inside of the front and back cover indicate Aggreko improvement techniques and continue to work in Black Belts.
their business area making localised improvements in service, sales and administration, ultimately aiming CO2 to make Aggreko more efficient and provide ongoing Carbon dioxide.
Diluted earnings per share Names that are in bold and coloured orange on the Profit after tax divided by the diluted weighted inside of the front and back cover indicate Aggreko average number of ordinary shares ranking for Orange Belts.
dividend during the relevant period, i. e. including the impact of share options.
Operating profit Also known as EBIT Profit from operations after gain on sale of property, ERP system plant and equipment but before interest and tax.
A software package which is designed to manage all the operational and accounting functions of our business.
Particulate In general this term relates to visible smoke.
g kWh Emissions in grams per kilowatt hour.
Hub A large service centre where large items of equipment Profit after tax are stored and serviced.
Profit attributable to equity shareholders.
Power Projects business Spoke The part of our business which handles very large power A small service centre which provides a logistics point contracts.
Customers are mainly in developing countries from where equipment can be prepared and sent out but power projects can arise anywhere in the world.
kVA Tier 1, Tier 2, Tier 3, Tier 4 A thousand volt amperes.
US Federal Government target emission reduction levels.
Local business The part of our business that looks after customers Trading profit local to our service centres in North and Latin Operating profit before gain on sale of property, America, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia plant and equipment.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 167
