GROUP SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AS AT 31 MARCH 2013 Basis of consolidation Statement of compliance Electrocomponents plc the Company is a company domiciled The Group accounts have been prepared in accordance with IFRS in England.
The Group accounts for the year ended 31 March 2013 as adopted for use by the EU.
comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as Adjusted measures the Group and the Groups interest in a jointly controlled entity.
Profit measures such as operating profit, profit before tax and Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
All significant earnings per share are also presented as being results before subsidiary accounts are made up to 31 March and are included in the reorganisation costs income and pension changes or as headline Group Accounts.
Further to the IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 the results.
Similarly a cash flow term, free cash flow, representing Group accounts have been prepared in accordance with International the Groups cash flow before financing activities is also disclosed.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU adopted IFRS.
The Company accounts continue to be prepared in accordance These measures are used by the Group for internal reporting with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP and purposes and employee incentive arrangements.
The terms pension details of the Company accounts, notes to the accounts and principal changes reorganisation, headline and free cash flow are not accounting policies are set out on pages 95 to 96. defined terms under IFRS and may not be comparable with similar measures disclosed by other companies.
Likewise, these measures The accounts were authorised for issue by the Directors on are not a substitute for GAAP measures of profit or cash flow.
Revenue Basis of preparation Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income The accounts are presented in Sterling and rounded to 0.1m.
statement on dispatch when the significant risks and rewards of They are prepared on a going concern basis, as referred to in the ownership have been transferred.
Revenue represents the sale of Directors report on page 41, and on the historical cost basis except goods and services and is stated net of sales taxes and volume certain financial instruments as detailed below.
Freight recharged to customers is included within revenue.
The preparation of accounts in conformity with IFRS requires Customer loyalty schemes management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that The cost of loyalty schemes is treated as a deduction from sales and affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets part of the fair value of the consideration received is deferred and and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated subsequently recognised over the period that the awards are assumptions are based on historical experience and various other redeemed.
The fair value of the points awarded is determined with factors believed to be reasonable, under the circumstances, the reference to the fair value to the customer and takes into account results of which form the basis of making the judgements about factors such as the redemption rate.
carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent Transactions eliminated on consolidation from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Intra-group balances and unrealised gains and losses or income and Estimates and judgements expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in The preparation of accounts requires management to make preparing Group accounts.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of with the jointly controlled entity are eliminated to the extent of the accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the income and expense.
same way as unrealised gains.
The significant estimates made in the accounts for the year ended Goodwill and other intangibles 31 March 2013 are: Goodwill arising on all acquisitions prior to 31 March 1998 has been written off against reserves.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions after 1 Pensions: the key assumptions and estimates relate to discount April 1998 has been capitalised and, under UK GAAP, was amortised rates, inflation rates and increases to salaries and pensions in on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, with a maximum payment.
These are explained in more detail in note 7 of 20 years.
Goodwill: the Groups goodwill principally relates to the acquisition The Group has made the elective exemption under IFRS 1 that of Allied Electronics Inc. in July 1999.
The key assumptions used allows goodwill in respect of acquisitions made prior to 1 April 2004 to determine the recoverable amount of goodwill relate to future to remain as stated under UK GAAP.
The balance of goodwill as at operating performance, cash flows and discount rates.
These are 1 April 2004 is deemed to be the cost going forward.
Goodwill is not set out in note 11 amortised under IFRS.
Instead the carrying value is reviewed annually Inventory: the estimation of the net realisable value of inventory.
This estimation includes assessment of product sales levels and assumptions around product lifecycles Taxation: The tax payable on profits is determined based on tax laws and regulations that apply in each of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Where the precise impact of these laws and regulations is unclear then reasonable estimates may be used to determine the tax charge included in the financial statements Share-based payments: The estimation of the likelihood of vesting conditions being met is included in the calculation of the cost of share-based payments.
These are explained in more detail in note 6 64 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated Trade and other receivables amortisation.
The cost of acquired intangible assets is their purchase Trade and other receivables are initially measured on the basis of their cost together with any incidental costs of acquisition.
Subsequently they are carried at amortised cost using the calculated to write off the cost of the asset on a straight-line basis at effective interest rate method.
the following annual rates: Net debt Net debt comprises cash and cash equivalents less borrowings.
Cash Trademarks 5% and cash equivalents comprises cash in hand and held with qualifying Computer software costs 12.5%-50% financial institutions in current accounts or overnight deposits net of overdrafts with qualifying financial institutions.
Cash and cash Amortisation is disclosed in distribution and marketing expenses equivalents include investment in money market funds and term in the income statement.
The residual value, if significant, is deposits with qualifying financial institutions.
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill term loans from qualifying financial institutions together with financial and brands is recognised in the income statement as an expense instruments classified as liabilities.
Operating expense classification Investments in jointly controlled entities Cost of sales comprises the cost of goods sold to customers.
The Group accounts include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses in one jointly controlled entity on an equity Distribution and marketing expenses include all operating company accounted basis.
expenses, including freight costs and movements in inventory provisions, together with the Group-wide Marketing, Offer and Property, plant and equipment Information Technology expenses.
Tangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
The cost of self constructed assets includes the cost of materials, Administration expenses comprise Group Finance, Legal and Group direct labour and certain direct overheads.
Human Resources process expenses, together with the expenses of the Group Board.
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Each finance Net financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings calculated leased asset is stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair using the effective interest rate method, interest receivable on funds value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at invested, foreign exchange gains and losses and gains and losses on the inception of the lease less accumulated depreciation.
hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
No depreciation has been charged on freehold land.
Other assets Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, have been depreciated to residual value, on a straight-line basis at using the effective interest method.
The interest expenses the following annual rates: component of finance lease payments is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
Freehold and leasehold buildings 2% Borrowing costs Plant and machinery 10%-20% Borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred Mainframe computer equipment 20% using the effective interest rate method.
Other interest payable Network computer equipment 33% includes interest charges on the unhedged portion of the Private Portable computers 50% Placement Loan notes.
Other office equipment 20% Catalogue costs The costs associated with the production and printing of catalogues Depreciation is disclosed in distribution and marketing expenses are expensed to the income statement when incurred.
Major in the income statement.
The residual value, if significant, is investments in software associated with new catalogue production reassessed annually.
systems are capitalised as intangible assets and written off over the period during which the benefits of those investments are anticipated, Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups goodwill are reviewed annually for such period not to exceed three years.
All other intangible assets are reviewed to determine Operating leases whether there is any indication of impairment.
If such an indication Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a exists the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
straight-line basis over the course of the lease period.
The benefits of An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of rent free periods and similar incentives are credited to the income an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
statement on a straight-line basis over the full lease term.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
The recoverable amount is calculated as the higher of fair value less cost of sale and value in use.
The present value of estimated future cash flows is calculated using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
This cost is calculated on a weighted average basis.
Work in progress and goods for resale include attributable overheads.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 201365 GROUP SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Government grants Tax Government grants related to expenditure on property, plant and Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and equipment are credited to the income statement at the same rate deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable as the depreciation on the asset to which the grants relate.
The income for the year, using tax rates enacted, or substantively enacted unamortised balance of capital grants is included within trade and at the balance sheet date and any adjustment to tax payable in other payables.
Employee benefits Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, Pension costs providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of In the United Kingdom the Group operates a pension scheme assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts providing benefits based on final pensionable pay for eligible used for taxation purposes.
employees who joined on or before 1 April 2004.
The scheme The amount of deferred tax provided is calculated using tax rates is administered by a corporate trustee and the funds are independent enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are of the Groups finances.
In addition there are defined benefit pension expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or schemes in Germany and the Republic of Ireland.
the deferred tax liability is settled.
For UK employees who joined after 1 April 2004 the Group provides Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable a defined contribution pension scheme.
There are also defined that future taxable profits will be available against which these contribution schemes in Australia, North America, Germany and temporary differences can be utilised.
the Republic of Ireland, and government schemes in France, Italy, Scandinavia and North Asia.
Obligations for contributions to Foreign currency defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense in Financial statements of foreign operations the income statement as incurred.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated at The cost of the defined benefit scheme charged to the income foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues statement comprises: current service cost, past service cost, and expenses of foreign operations are translated at an average rate expected return on scheme assets and the interest cost on the for the period where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange expected amount of the unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
within administrative expenses and distribution and marketing expenses.
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses in the Net investment in foreign operations Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income immediately.
Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign operations and of related qualifying hedges are taken directly Obligations are measured at present value using the projected unit to equity.
They are released into the income statement credit method and a discount rate reflecting yields on high quality upon disposal.
Assets are measured at their fair value at the balance sheet date.
The elective exemption in IFRS 1 means that any translation differences prior to the date of transition 1 April 2004 do not need to Share-based payment transactions be analysed retrospectively and so the deemed cumulative translation The Group operates several share-based payment schemes, the largest differences at this date can be set to nil.
Thus, any cumulative of which are the Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE, the translation differences arising prior to the date of transition are Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and the Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
excluded from any future profit or loss on disposal of any entities.
Details of these are provided in note 6 to the Group accounts.
The Group adopted this exemption.
Equity-settled share-based schemes are measured at fair value at Foreign currency transactions the date of grant.
The fair value is expensed with a corresponding Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate ruling increase in equity on a straight-line basis over the period during which at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair values denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are are calculated using an appropriate option pricing model.
The income translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign statement charge is then adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the of vesting based on non market performance related criteria.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are Cash-settled share options are measured at fair value at the balance measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are sheet date.
The Group recognises a liability at the balance sheet date translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
based on these fair values, taking into account the estimated number Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies of options that will actually vest and the relative completion of the that are stated at fair value are translated at foreign exchange rates vesting period.
Changes in the value of this liability are recognised ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
in the income statement for the year.
Administrative expenses and distribution and marketing expenses include the cost of the share-based payment schemes.
Shares in the Company, held by the trust established to administer the schemes, are shown within reserves.
The Group has chosen to adopt the exemption whereby IFRS 2 Share-Based Payments is applied only to awards made after 7 November 2002.
66 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements Financial instruments All hedges not accounted for under fair value hedge accounting are Derivative financial instruments held at amortised cost, which approximates to fair value as interest The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure repricing takes place on a regular basis.
to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational Hedge of net investment in foreign operations and financing activities.
It principally employs forward foreign The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge exchange contracts to hedge against changes in exchange rates over a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be the catalogue periods of the majority of its operating companies.
In an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity.
The ineffective addition there are also a number of interest rate swaps which swap portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
certain fixed rate loans into floating rate.
Changes in accounting policies In accordance with its treasury policies, the Group does not hold or There were no standards and interpretations enacted applicable issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
to the period ended 31 March 2013 that are considered to have Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges in an impact on these accounts.
line with the Groups risk management policies.
Hedges are classified The following standards and interpretations have been issued but as follows: not yet applied: Cash flow hedges when they hedge the exposure to variability in IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was originally issued in November cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with a 2009 to review and replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: forecast transaction Recognition and Measurement.
In October 2010 the IASB issued Fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes an amended version.
The standard will be applicable for annual in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The effect on the Net investment hedges when they hedge the exposure to Group is still being evaluated changes in the value of the Groups interests in the net assets Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans is applicable of foreign operations for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IAS 19 revised 2011, Employee Benefits, which replaces interest cost and All the Groups derivatives are initially and in subsequent periods expected return on plan assets with a finance cost component.
This recognised in the balance sheet at fair value.
Changes in the fair value comprises net interest on the net defined benefit pension deficit of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for cash flow or calculated using the discount rate currently used to measure net investment hedge accounting are recognised in the income defined benefit pension liabilities.
If this amendment had been statement as they arise.
applied in the year ended 31 March 2013, pre-tax profit would have Cash flow hedge accounting been 4.6m lower, primarily because the discount rate is lower than Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge the expected return on plan assets.
The net pension deficit would of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or have been unchanged a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly is applicable for periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised requires that an entity separately presents the items of Other immediately in the income statement.
When the forecast transaction Comprehensive Income that may be reclassified to profit or subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or loss in the future from those that would never be reclassified liability the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity to profit or loss.
This will not affect the reported results or net and included in the initial cost of the non-financial asset or liability.
assets of the Group When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint of a financial asset or liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss Arrangements and IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other that was recognised directly in equity is reclassified into the income Entities were endorsed in December 2012 and will be effective for statement in the same period during which the asset acquired periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
These will replace the or liability assumed affects the income statement.
existing accounting standards for subsidiaries and joint ventures.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or This will not affect the reported results or net assets of the Group exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement was endorsed in December but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the 2012.
It provides a single definition of fair value, a framework cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is for measurement of fair values and disclosures about fair value recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction measurements.
This will not affect the reported results or net occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, assets of the Group.
The effective date is not yet known the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The Group does not consider that any other standards, amendments or interpretations issued by the IASB, but not yet applicable, will have The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is the difference a significant impact on the financial statements.
between their discounted contractual forward price and their current forward price.
Fair value hedge accounting The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge exposure to interest rate and exchange rate risks arising from financing activities, holding a small number of interest rate and cross currency swaps which swap certain fixed rate loans into floating rate.
The fair value of the swaps is the market value of the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates.
The market value of changes in fair values of derivatives designated as fair value hedges and changes in fair value of the related hedged item are recognised directly in the income statement.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 201367
