Financial statements COMPANY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AS AT 31 MARCH 2013 Basis of preparation Cash flow hedge accounting The Company accounts have been prepared under the historical Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge cost convention, modified to include revaluation to fair value of certain of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or financial instruments as described below, and in accordance with a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain UK Company Law and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly UK GAAP.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the Profit and Loss Account.
When the forecast The Group accounts have been prepared in accordance with transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the asset or liability the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed European Union and are presented on pages 59 to 93. from equity and included in the initial cost of the non-financial asset Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company or liability.
is exempt from the requirement to present its own Profit and When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition Loss Account.
of a financial asset or liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss Under Financial Reporting Standard 29, the Company is exempt that was recognised directly in equity is reclassified into the Profit and from the disclosure requirements of FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Loss Account in the same period during which the asset acquired or Disclosures on the grounds that the parent undertaking, liability assumed affects profit or loss.
Electrocomponents plc, includes the Company in its own published When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or consolidated accounts.
Disclosures are provided in note 20 under exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures which comply with the but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the disclosure requirements of FRS 29. cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised The following paragraphs describe the main accounting policies in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
under UK GAAP, which have been applied consistently.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the Investments in subsidiary undertakings cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised Investments in subsidiary undertakings including long-term loans are immediately in the Profit and Loss Account.
included in the Balance Sheet of the Company at the lower of cost The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is the difference and the expected recoverable amount.
Any impairment is recognised between their discounted contractual forward price and their current in the Profit and Loss Account.
Translation of foreign currencies Fair value hedge accounting Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge exposure exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and to interest rate risks arising from financing activities, holding interest liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate swaps which swap certain fixed rate loans into floating rate.
rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains and losses on translation are included in the Profit and Loss Account.
The fair value of the interest rate swaps is the market value of the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates.
Financial instruments Derivative financial instruments Pension costs The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its The Company participates in Group operated defined contribution exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from and defined benefit pension schemes.
The assets of the schemes operational and financing activities.
It principally employs forward are held separately from those of the Company in independently foreign exchange contracts to hedge against changes in exchange administered funds.
rates over the catalogue periods of the majority of its operating As allowed by FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, the Company is unable companies.
In addition there are also interest rate swaps which to identify its share of the defined benefit schemes underlying assets swap certain fixed rate loans into floating rate.
and liabilities and therefore accounts for it as though it was a defined In accordance with its treasury policies, the Company does not hold contribution pension scheme.
The deficit of the scheme is included or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
within the accounts of RS Components Limited.
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges Share-based payments in line with the Companys risk management policies.
Hedges are The Company operates several share-based payment schemes, classified as follows: the largest of which are the Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE, the Long Term Incentive Option Plan LTIOP, the Long Term Fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes Incentive Plan LTIP.
in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee Cash flow hedges when they hedge the exposure to variability expense with a corresponding increase in equity and spread over the in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with period during which employees become unconditionally entitled to a forecast transaction the options.
The fair values are calculated using an appropriate option All the Groups derivatives are initially and in subsequent periods pricing model.
The Profit and Loss Account charge is then adjusted recognised in the Balance Sheet at fair value.
Changes in the fair to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting based on non-market value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for performance related criteria.
cash flow or net investment hedge accounting are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account as they arise.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 201395 COMPANY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED All Profit and Loss Account charges relating to options held by members of other Group companies are charged to the appropriate Group company.
Amounts relating to equity-settled share-based payments in subsidiary companies are debited to the value of the investment in that entity with the corresponding entry shown in reserves.
The Company has chosen to adopt the exemption whereby FRS 20 Share-Based Payments is applied only to awards made after 7 November 2002.
Depreciation No depreciation has been charged on freehold land.
Other assets have been depreciated to residual value on a straight-line basis at the following annual rates: Freehold buildings 2% Warehouse systems 10%-20% Plant and equipment 10%-20% Mainframe computer equipment 20% Network computer equipment 33% Portable computers 50% Other office equipment 20% Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Leases Operating lease rentals are charged to the Profit and Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the course of the lease period.
The benefits of rent free periods and similar incentives are credited to the Profit and Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the period up to the date on which the lease rentals are adjusted to the prevailing market rate.
Own shares held The Companys own shares held by the Electrocomponents Employee Trust are deducted from shareholders funds until they vest unconditionally with employees as required by UITF 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts.
96 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
