89 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 1.
Corporate information Unincorporated jointly controlled assets EnQuest PLC EnQuest or the Company is a limited liability Oil and gas operations are conducted by the Group as Company registered in England and is listed on the London co-licensees in unincorporated joint ventures with other Stock Exchange and Stockholm NASDAQ OMX market.
The Groups financial statements reflect the relevant proportions of production, capital costs, operating The Groups principal activities are the exploration for, and costs and current assets and liabilities of the joint venture extraction and production of, hydrocarbons in the UK applicable to the Groups interests.
The Groups current joint Continental Shelf.
During 2012 the Group acquired interests venture interests are detailed on page 32. in an exploration licence in Malaysia, pre-qualified as an operator in the Norwegian North Sea and during December Business combinations 2013 completed the acquisition of 50% contractor interest in Business combinations are accounted for using the an Egyptian field.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at The Groups financial statements for the year ended acquisition date fair value and the amount of any controlling 31December 2013 were authorised for issue in accordance interest in the acquiree.
For each business combination, the with a resolution of the Board of Directors on 25 March 2014. acquirer measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share of A listing of the Group companies is contained in note 29 the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Those petroleum tothese Group financial statements.
reserves and resources that are able to be reliably valued are recognised in the assessment of fair values on acquisition.
Summary of significant accounting policies Other potential reserves, resources and rights, for which fair Basis of preparation values cannot be reliably determined, are not recognised.
The Group financial information has been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards New standards and interpretations IFRS as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the The Group has adopted new and revised IFRSs that are financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 relevant to its operations and effective for accounting December 2013 and applied in accordance with the periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The accounting policies which follow effects of the adoption of these new and amended standards set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial and interpretations are discussed below: statements for the year ended 31 December 2013.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement The Group financial information has been prepared on a The Standard defines fair value, provides guidance on its historical cost basis.
The presentation currency of the Group determination and introduces consistent requirements for financial information is United States dollars and all values in disclosures on fair value measurements.
The Standard does the Group financial information are rounded to the nearest not include requirements on when fair value measurement is thousand US$000 except where otherwise stated.
required but prescribes how fair value is to be measured if another Standard requires it.
As a result of the guidance in Going concern concept IFRS 13, the Group re-assessed its policies for measuring fair The Directors assessment of going concern concludes that the values, in particular, its valuation inputs such as nonuse of the going concern basis is appropriate and there are no performance risk for fair value measurement of liabilities.
material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt about the IFRS 13 also requires additional disclosures.
ability of the Group to continue as a going concern.
See page 80 in the Directors Report for further details.
Application of IFRS 13 has not materially impacted the fair value measurements of the Group.
Additional disclosures Basis of consolidation where required, are provided in the individual notes relating Subsidiaries to the assets and liabilities whose fair values were Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the sole determined.
Fair value hierarchy is provided in note 22. right to exercise control over the operations and govern the financial policies generally accompanying a shareholding of IAS 1 Presentation of items of other comprehensive income more than half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect Amendments to IAS 1 of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or The amendments change the grouping of items presented convertible are considered when assessing the Groups in the statement of comprehensive income.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on be reclassified to profit or loss at a future point in time which control is transferred to the Group and are fidewould be presented separately from items that will never consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The amendments affect presentation only and have no impact on the Groups financial position Intercompany profits, transactions and balances are or performance.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
For more information visit: www.
com 90 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements Annual improvements May 2012 IFRS 11 establishes a clear principle that is applicable to the IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements This accounting for all joint arrangements.
The Standard is improvement clarifies the difference between voluntary effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January additional comparative information and the minimum 2014 in the European Union.
The most significant change is required comparative information.
Generally the minimum that IFRS 11 requires the use of the equity method of required comparative information is the previous period.
The accounting for interests in jointly controlled entities thereby amendments affect presentation only and have no impact on eliminating the proportionate consolidation method.
the Groups financial position or performance.
IAS 28 Revised Investments in Associates and Joint IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment This improvement Ventures clarifies that major spare parts and servicing equipment that The Standard will be revised due to the introduction of IFRS meet the definition of property, plant and equipment are not 11 and 12.
The Standard describes the application of the inventory.
The amendment has no impact on the Groups equity method to investments in joint ventures in addition to financial position or performance.
The revision will become effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 in the European Standards issued but not yet effective Union.
Standards issued and relevant to the Group, but not yet effective up to the date of issuance of the Groups financial IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities statements, are listed below.
This listing is of Standards and Includes disclosure requirements for interests in subsidiaries, interpretations issued, which the Group reasonably expects joint arrangements, associates and unconsolidated to be applicable at a future date.
The Group intends to adopt structured entities.
The Standard is effective for annual these Standards when they become effective.
The Directors periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 in the European do not anticipate that the adoption of these Standards will Union.
have a material impact on the Groups accounts in the period of initial application.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The management of the Group has to make estimates and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Classification and Measurement judgements when preparing the financial statements of the IFRS 9 as issued reflects the first phase of the IASBs work on Group.
Uncertainties in the estimates and judgements could the replacement of IAS 39 and applies to classification and have an impact on the carrying amount of assets and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities as liabilities and the Groups result.
The most important defined in IAS 39.
The Standard is effective for annual estimates and judgements in relation thereto are: periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
In subsequent phases, the IASB is addressing hedge accounting and Estimates in oil and gas reserves impairment of financial assets.
The adoption of the first The business of the Group is the exploration for, phase of IFRS 9 will have an effect on the classification and development of and production of oil and gas reserves.
measurement of the Groups financial assets, but will not Estimates of oil and gas reserves are used in the calculations have an impact on classification and measurements of for impairment tests and accounting for depletion and financial liabilities.
However, the Group determined that the decommissioning.
Changes in estimates of oil and gas effect shall be quantified in conjunction with the other reserves resulting in different future production profiles will phases when issued to present a comprehensive picture.
affect the discounted cash flows used in impairment testing, the anticipated date of decommissioning and the depletion IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IAS 27 charges in accordance with the unit-of-production method.
Revised Separate Financial Statements IFRS 10 establishes a single control model that applies to all Estimates in impairment of assets excluding goodwill entities including special purpose entities and introduces For details of the policy see Impairment of assets excluding changes which will require management to exercise goodwill and refer to the further economic assumptions significant judgement to determine which entities are below within Estimates in impairment of goodwill.
controlled, and therefore, are required to be consolidated by a parent.
The consolidation requirements forming part of IAS Estimates in impairment of goodwill 27 will be revised and contained within IFRS 10.
These Determination of whether goodwill has suffered any Standards are effective for annual periods beginning on or impairment requires an estimation of the value in use of the after 1 January 2014 in the European Union.
cash-generating units CGU to which goodwill has been allocated.
The present value calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the CGU and a suitable discount rate.
In calculating the present value in use of the CGU, the Group uses forward curve prices for the first three years before reverting to the Groups long term pricing assumption and discounts using a rate derived from the Groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital.
91 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Carry provision In calculating the asset fair values the Group has applied an oil Part of the consideration for the acquisition of the interest in price assumption of US$108.42 per barrel in 2014, US$102.30 the Kraken field in 2012 was through development carries.
per barrel in 2015, US$96.60 per barrel in 2016, thereafter These were split into two parts, a firm carry where the amount US$90 inflated at 2% per annum from 2014 2012: US$107.60 was agreed and a contingent carry where the amounts are per barrel in 2013, US$102.00 per barrel in 2014, US$97.80 per subject to a reserves determination.
In assessing the amounts barrel in 2015, US$94.30 per barrel in 2016, US$91.70 per barrel to be provided, management has made assumptions about in 2017 thereafter US$90 inflated at 2% per annum from 2013 the most likely amount outcome of the reserves and a post tax discount rate of 8.36% 2012: 8.36%.
Future developments may require further revisions to the estimate.
These would be recorded as a Determining whether an acquisition is a business financial liability for any outstanding balance under the firm combination or asset purchase carry and as a provision for the contingent carry.
The Group analyses the transaction or event by applying the definition of a business combination, principally whether Estimates in impairment of goodwill inputs, processes and outputs exist, including reviewing Determination of whether goodwill has suffered any Group strategy, control and resources.
Should the acquired impairment requires an estimation of the value in use of the business not be viewed as a business combination then it is cash-generating units CGU to which goodwill has been accounted for as an asset purchase.
The present value calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the Determining the fair value of property, plant and CGU and a suitable discount rate.
As there were no equipment on business combinations indications of impairment in the current year as allowed The Group determines the fair value of property, plant and under IAS 36 the Group has used the most recent detailed equipment acquired based on the discounted cash flows at calculations of the recoverable amount which was performed the time of acquisition, from the proven and probable in 2012, for calculating the present value in use of the CGU.
In assessing the discounted cash flows the estimated The 2012 calculation used forward curve prices for the first future cash flows attributable to the asset are discounted to three years before reverting to the Groups long term pricing their present value using a discount rate that reflects the assumption and discounted at a pre-tax rate of 20.4%.
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset at the time of the acquisition.
In Taxation calculating the asset fair value the Group will apply the forward The UKs corporation tax legislation is complex.
The Groups curve followed by a long term real price assumption of US$90 operations are subject to a number of specific rules which per barrel escalated for inflation.
This oil price assumption apply to UK North Sea exploration and production.
In addition, represents managements view of the long term oil price.
the tax provision is prepared before the relevant companies have filed their UK corporation tax and supplementary charge Decommissioning provision returns with HMRC, and significantly, before these have been Amounts used in recording a provision for decommissioning are agreed.
As a result of these factors the tax provision process estimates based on current legal and constructive requirements necessarily involves the use of a number of estimates and and current technology and price levels for the removal of judgements including those required in calculating the facilities and plugging and abandoning of wells.
Due to changes effective tax rate.
In considering the tax on exceptionals, the in relation to these items, the future actual cash outflows in Company applies the appropriate statutory tax rate to each relation to decommissioning are likely to differ in practice.
To exceptional item to calculate the relevant tax charge on reflect the effects due to changes in legislation, requirements exceptional items.
and technology and price levels, the carrying amounts of decommissioning provisions are reviewed on a regular basis.
The Group recognises deferred tax assets on unused tax losses where it is probable that future taxable profits will be available The effects of changes in estimates do not give rise to prior for utilisation.
This requires management to make judgements year adjustments and are dealt with prospectively.
While the and assumptions regarding the amount of deferred tax that can Group uses its best estimates and judgement, actual results be recognised, as well as the likelihood of future taxable profits.
could differ from these estimates.
Foreign currencies In estimating decommissioning provisions, the Group applies Items included in the financial statements of each of the an annual inflation rate of 2% 2012: 2% and an annual Groups entities are measured using the currency of the discount rate of 5% 2012: 5%.
primary economic environment in which the entity operates functional currency.
The Group financial statements are presented in United States dollars, the currency which the Group has elected to use as its presentation currency.
com 92 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Capitalised costs In the accounts of the Company and its individual Oil and gas assets are accounted for using the successful subsidiaries, transactions in currencies other than a efforts method of accounting.
companys functional currency are recorded at the prevailing rate of exchange on the date of the transaction.
At the year Intangible oil and gas assets end, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign Expenditure directly associated with evaluation or appraisal currencies are retranslated at the rates of exchange activities is capitalised as an intangible asset.
Such costs prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets include the costs of acquiring an interest, appraisal well and liabilities that are measured at historical cost in a foreign drilling costs, payments to contractors and an appropriate currency are translated using the rate of exchange as at the share of directly attributable overheads incurred during the dates of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary assets and evaluation phase.
For such appraisal activity, which may liabilities measured at fair value in a foreign currency are require drilling of further wells, costs continue to be carried translated using the rate of exchange at the date the fair as an asset whilst related hydrocarbons are considered value was determined.
All foreign exchange gains and losses capable of commercial development.
Such costs are subject are taken to profit and loss in the statement of to technical, commercial and management review to confirm comprehensive income.
the continued intent to develop, or otherwise extract value.
When this is no longer the case, the costs are impaired and Classification and recognition of assets and liabilities any impairment loss is recognised in the statement of Non-current assets and non-current liabilities including comprehensive income.
When exploration licences are provisions consist, for the most part, solely of amounts that are relinquished without further development, any previous expected to be recovered or paid more than 12 months after impairment loss is reversed and the carrying costs are written the balance sheet date.
Current assets and current liabilities off through the statement of comprehensive income.
When consist solely of amounts that are expected to be recovered or assets are declared part of a commercial development, paid within 12 months after the balance sheet date.
related costs are transferred to property, plant and equipment oil and gas assets.
All intangible oil and gas Property, plant and equipment assets are assessed for any impairment prior to transfer and Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less any impairment loss is recognised in the statement of accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
comprises the purchase price or construction cost and any costs directly attributable to making that asset capable of Farm outs in the exploration and evaluation phase operating as intended.
The purchase price or construction The Group does not record any expenditure made by the cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any farmee on its account.
It also does not recognise any gain or other consideration given to acquire the asset.
loss on its exploration and evaluation farm out arrangements but redesignates any costs previously capitalised in relation Oil and gas assets are depleted, on a field-by-field basis, to the whole interest as relating to the partial interest using the unit-of-production method based on entitlement to retained.
Any cash consideration received directly from the proven and probable reserves, taking account of estimated farmee is credited against costs previously capitalised in future development expenditure relating to those reserves.
relation to the whole interest with any excess accounted for by the farmor as a gain on disposal.
Depreciation on other elements of property, plant and equipment is provided on a straight-line basis at the Oil and gas assets following rates: Expenditure relating to development of assets including the construction, installation and completion of infrastructure Office furniture and equipment 25% 100% facilities such as platforms, pipelines and development wells, Long leasehold land period of lease is capitalised within property, plant and equipment.
Each assets estimated useful life, residual value and method Farm outs outside the exploration and evaluation phase of depreciation are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at In accounting for a farm out arrangement outside the each financial year end.
exploration and evaluation phase, the Group: derecognises the proportion of the asset that it has sold to No depreciation is charged on assets under construction.
the farmee: recognises the consideration received or receivable from The carrying amount of an item of property, plant and the farmee, which represents the cash received and or the equipment is derecognised on disposal or when no future farmees obligation to fund the capital expenditure in economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
The relation to the interest retained by the farmor and or any gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an item of deferred consideration: property, plant and equipment is included in the statement of comprehensive income when the item is derecognised.
Gains are not classified as revenue.
93 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market recognises a gain or loss on the transaction for the assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific difference between the net disposal proceeds and the to the asset.
carrying amount of the asset disposed of.
A gain is only recognised when the value of the consideration can be If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than determined reliably.
If not, then the Group accounts for the its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced consideration received as a reduction in the carrying to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised amount of the underlying assets: and immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
tests the retained interests for impairment if the terms of the arrangement indicate that the retained interest may Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the be impaired.
carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but only so that the The consideration receivable on disposal of an item of property, increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying plant and equipment or an intangible asset is recognised amount that would have been determined had no initially at its fair value by the Group.
However, if payment for the impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
item is deferred, the consideration received is recognised A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in initially at the cash price equivalent.
The difference between the the statement of comprehensive income.
nominal amount of the consideration and the cash price equivalent is recognised as interest revenue.
Any part of the Goodwill consideration that is receivable in the form of cash is treated as Goodwill acquired in a business combination is initially a financial asset and is accounted for at amortised cost.
measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the net fair value of the Carry arrangements identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the Where amounts are paid on behalf of a carried party these are entity at the date of acquisition.
Where there is an obligation to make payments goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment on behalf of a carried party and the timing and amount are losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more uncertain, a provision is recognised.
Where the payment is frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that a fixed monetary amount, a financial liability is recognised.
such carrying value may be impaired.
Asset swaps For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill acquired is For exchanges or part exchanges of intangible oil and gas allocated to the cash-generating units that are expected to assets, they are accounted for at the carrying value of the benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Each unit or asset given up and no gain or loss is recognised.
units to which goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for Changes in unit-of-production factors internal management purposes.
Changes in factors which affect unit-of-production calculations are dealt with prospectively, not by immediate Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable adjustment of prior years amounts.
amount of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating Borrowing costs unit is less than the carrying amount of the cash-generating Borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction of unit and related goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised.
qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to prepare for their intended use, Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the and part of the operation within the unit is disposed of, the assets are substantially ready for their intended use.
All other goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is borrowing costs are recognised as interest payable in the included in the carrying amount of the operation when statement of comprehensive income in accordance with the determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the Impairment of assets excluding goodwill portion of the cash-generating units retained.
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its oil and gas assets to assess whether there is Non-current assets held for sale an indication that those assets may be impaired.
If any such Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at indication exists, the Group makes an estimate of the assets the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows attributable to the asset are discounted to their present value For more information visit: www.
com 94 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued The reclassification to loans and receivables, available-for-sale Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their or held-to-maturity depends on the nature of the asset.
This carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction evaluation does not affect any financial assets designated at rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded FVTPL using the fair value option at designation.
These as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is instruments cannot be reclassified after initial recognition.
available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be Held-to-maturity investments expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable one year from the date of classification.
payments and fixed maturity are classified as held-tomaturity when the Group has the positive intention and Financial assets ability to hold them to maturity.
After initial measurement, Financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as held-to-maturity investments are measured at amortised cost financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and using the effective interest method EIR, less impairment.
receivables, held-to-maturity investments, available-for-sale Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any financial investments, or as derivatives designated as discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
an integral part of the EIR.
The EIR amortisation and losses The Group determines the classification of its financial assets arising from impairment are included in the profit or loss.
Available-for-sale financial investments All assets are recognised initially at fair value plus Listed and unlisted shares held by the Group that are traded transactions costs, except in the case of financial assets in an active market are classified as being available-for-sale recorded at fair value through profit or loss.
and are stated at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive Purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of income and accumulated in the available-for-sale reserve assets within a time frame established by regulation or with the exception of impairment losses which are convention in the market place regular way trades are recognised directly in profit or loss.
Where the investment is recognised on the trade date.
disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the available-for-sale The Groups financial assets include cash and short term reserve is reclassified to profit or loss.
deposits, trade and other receivables, loans and other receivables, quoted and unquoted financial instruments and Loans and receivables derivative financial instruments.
These include trade receivables, loans and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not Subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on quoted in an active market and are measured at amortised their classification as described below: cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL interest rate, except for short term receivables when the Financial assets are classified as at FVTPL when the financial recognition of interest would be immaterial.
asset is either held for trading or designated as at FVTPL.
Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are Impairment of financial assets acquired for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near The Group assesses, at each reporting date, whether there term.
Derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless is any objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired.
they are designated as effective hedging instruments as A financial asset is deemed to be impaired where there is defined by IAS 39. objective evidence of impairment that, as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains the asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment or losses arising on remeasurement recognised in profit or loss.
Financial assets designated upon initial recognition at FVTPL For listed and unlisted equity investments classified as are designated at their initial recognition date and only if the available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the criteria under IAS 39 are satisfied.
fair value of the security below its cost is considered to be objective evidence of impairment.
When an available-for-sale The Group evaluates its financial assets held for trading, other financial asset is considered to be impaired, cumulative gains than derivatives, to determine whether the intention to sell and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive them in the near term is still appropriate.
Where the Group is income are reclassified to profit or loss in the period.
In unable to trade these financial assets or managements respect of equity securities, impairment losses previously intention to sell them in the foreseeable future changes recognised in profit or loss are not reversed through profit or significantly, the Group may elect to reclassify these assets.
loss but through other comprehensive income.
Any increase in fair value subsequent to an impairment loss is recognised in other comprehensive income.
95 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Inventories For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of Inventories of consumable well supplies are stated at the the impairment is the difference between the assets carrying lower of cost and net realisable value, cost being determined amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, on an average cost basis.
Inventories of hydrocarbons are discounted at the financial assets original effective interest stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The carrying amount is reduced through use of an allowance account and the amount of the loss is recognised Under over-lift in profit or loss.
Under or over-lifted positions of hydrocarbons are valued at market prices prevailing at the balance sheet date.
An Derivatives under-lift of production from a field is included in current Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date receivables and valued at the reporting date spot price or a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently prevailing contract price and an over-lift of production remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the from a field is included in current liabilities and valued at resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is the reporting date spot price or prevailing contract price.
Cash and cash equivalents The Group categorises derivatives as follows: Cash and cash equivalents includes cash at bank, cash in hand, outstanding bank overdrafts and highly liquid interest bearing Fair value hedge securities with original maturities of three months or less.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that qualify as fair value hedging instruments are recorded in the profit or loss, Equity together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged Share capital asset or liability.
The balance classified as equity share capital includes the total net proceeds both nominal value and share premium Cash flow hedge on issue of registered share capital of the parent Company.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of Share issue costs associated with the issuance of new equity derivatives that qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in are treated as a direct reduction of proceeds.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the profit or Merger reserve loss.
Amounts accumulated in shareholders equity are Merger reserve represents the difference between the transferred to the profit or loss in the period when the market value of shares issued to effect business hedged item will affect the profit or loss.
When the hedged combinations less the nominal value of shares issued.
item no longer meets the requirements for hedge The merger reserve in the Group financial statements also accounting, expires or is sold, any accumulated gain or loss includes the consolidation adjustments that arise under the recognised in shareholders equity is transferred to profit and application of the pooling of interest method.
loss when the forecast transaction which was the subject of the hedge occurs.
Cash flow hedge reserve For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss Net investment hedge on the hedging instrument is recognised directly as other Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are comprehensive income in the cash flow hedge reserve.
Upon accounted for in a similar manner as cash flow hedges.
The settlement of the hedged item, the change in fair value is gain or loss accumulated in shareholders equity is transferred to the statement of comprehensive income.
transferred to the profit or loss at the time the foreign operation is disposed of.
Available-for-sale reserve Gains and losses with the exception of impairment losses Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting arising from changes in available-for-sale financial When derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, changes investments are recognised in the available-for-sale reserve in fair value are recognised immediately in the profit or loss.
until such time that the investment is disposed of, where it is reclassified to profit or loss.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and Share-based payments reserve subsequently measured at amortised cost less provision for Equity-settled share-based payment transactions are impairment.
measured at the fair value of the services received, and the corresponding increase in equity is recorded directly at the fair value of the services received.
The share-based payments reserve includes treasury shares.
com 96 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Financial liabilities Retained earnings A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation Retained earnings contain the accumulated results under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
attributable to the shareholders of the parent Company.
If an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the Employee Benefit Trust same lender, on substantially different terms, or the terms of EnQuest PLC shares held by the Group are deducted from an existing liability are substantially modified, such an the share-based payments reserve and are recognised at exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the cost.
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is original liability and the recognition of a new liability such also recognised in equity, with any difference between the that the difference in the respective carrying amounts proceeds from the sale and the original cost being taken to together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in the reserves.
No gain or loss is recognised in the statement of statement of comprehensive income.
comprehensive income on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Interest-bearing loans and borrowings are recognised initially Provisions at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Transaction Decommissioning costs are amortised over the life of the facility.
Provision for future decommissioning costs is made in full when the Group has an obligation to dismantle and remove a Borrowing costs are stated at amortised cost using the facility or an item of plant and to restore the site on which it is effective interest method.
located, and when a reasonable estimate of that liability can be made.
The amount recognised is the present value of the The effective interest method is a method of calculating the estimated future expenditure.
An amount equivalent to the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest discounted initial provision for decommissioning costs is expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate capitalised and amortised over the life of the underlying is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash asset on a unit-of-production basis over proven and probable payments through the expected life of the financial liability, reserves.
Any change in the present value of the estimated or a shorter period to the net carrying amount of the financial expenditure is reflected as an adjustment to the provision liability where appropriate.
Bond The unwinding of the discount applied to future Bonds are measured on an amortised cost basis.
decommissioning provisions is included under finance costs in the statement of comprehensive income.
Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, Other a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at the Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present inception date.
The arrangement is assessed for whether legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a probable that an outflow of resources will be required to specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of use the asset or assets, even if that right is not explicitly the amount of the obligation.
Financial assets Finance leases that transfer substantially all the risks and A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item to the asset is derecognised where: Group, are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at ``the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present expired: value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are ``the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the asset, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on without material delay to a third party under a passthe remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are through arrangement: or recognised in finance costs in the income statement.
``the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset and either a has transferred substantially all A leased asset is depreciated over the useful life of the asset.
the risks and rewards of the asset, or b has neither However, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, the asset rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
is depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an operating expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
97 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Pension obligations Revenue The Groups pension obligations consist of defined Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable contribution plans.
A defined contribution plan is a pension economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions.
Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The amount charged to the Oil and gas revenues comprise the Groups share of sales statement of comprehensive income in respect of pension from the processing or sale of hydrocarbons on an costs reflects the contributions payable in the year.
entitlement basis, when the significant risks and rewards of Differences between contributions payable during the year ownership have been passed to the buyer.
and contributions actually paid are shown as either accrued liabilities or prepaid assets in the balance sheet.
Tariff revenue is recognised in the period in which the services are provided at the agreed contract rates.
Share-based payment transactions Employees including Directors of the Group receive Exceptional items remuneration in the form of share-based payment As permitted by IAS 1 Revised, Presentation of Financial transactions, whereby employees render services in Statements, certain items are presented separately.
The exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled items that the Group separately presents as exceptional on transactions of EnQuest PLC.
the face of the statement of comprehensive income are those material items of income and expense which because of the Equity-settled transactions nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise to The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to measured by reference to the fair value at the date on which understand better the elements of financial performance in they are granted.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and account is taken of any service or performance conditions, to assess better trends in financial performance.
other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of EnQuest PLC market conditions or non-vesting conditions, Depletion of fair value uplift to property, plant and if applicable.
equipment on acquiring strategic investments IFRS requires that a fair value exercise is undertaken The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised over the allocating the cost of acquiring controlling interests to the period in which the relevant employees become fully entitled fair value of the acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and to the award the vesting period.
The cumulative expense contingent liabilities.
Any difference between the cost of recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting acquiring the interest and the fair value of the acquired net date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the assets, which includes identified contingent liabilities, is vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of recognised as acquired goodwill.
The fair value exercise is the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
performed as at the date of acquisition.
The statement of comprehensive income charge or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense The Directors have determined that for strategic investments recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
it is important to identify separately the earnings impact of increased depletion arising from the acquisition date fair No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately value uplifts made to property, plant and equipment over vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a their useful economic lives.
As a result of the nature of fair market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting value assessments in the oil and gas industry the value irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting attributed to strategic assets is subjective, based on a wide condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance range of complex variables at a point in time.
Equity awards cancelled are treated subsequent depletion of the fair value uplifts bears little as vesting immediately on the date of cancellation, and any relationship to current market conditions, operational expense not recognised for the award at that date is performance or cash generation.
Management therefore recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
reports and monitors the business performance of strategic investments before the impact of depletion of fair value Taxes uplifts to property, plant and equipment and the uplift is Income taxes excluded from the business result presented in the Group Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount statement of comprehensive income.
expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or Employee benefits substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Short term employee benefits Short term employee benefits such as salaries, social premiums and holiday pay, are expensed when incurred.
com 98 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Group financial statements.
However, deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset only if a legal right exists to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities, the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxation authority and that authority permits the Group to make a single net payment.
Production taxes In addition to corporate income taxes, the Groups financial statements also include and disclose production taxes on net income determined from oil and gas production.
Production tax relates to Petroleum Revenue Tax PRT and is accounted for under IAS 12 since it has the characteristics of an income tax as it is imposed under Government authority and the amount payable is based on taxable profits of the relevant fields.
Current and deferred PRT is provided on the same basis as described above for income taxes.
Field allowances The UK taxation regime provides for a reduction in ring fence supplemental corporation tax where investments in new or existing UK assets qualify for a relief known as field allowances.
Eligible assets qualify for field allowances depending on the size, type or nature of the field and are granted when DECC approves a field development plan or addendum to a field development plan.
Field allowances are only triggered when production from the field commences.
The Group is eligible for a number of field allowances which will materially reduce the level of future supplemental corporation taxation.
Field allowances are recognised as a reduction in the charge to taxation in the years claimed.
Segment information Management have considered the requirements of IFRS 8, in regard to the determination of operating segments, and concluded that the Group has only one significant operating segment, being the exploration for, and the extraction and production of, hydrocarbons.
All revenue is generated from sales to customers in the United Kingdom.
Details of the Groups revenue components are provided in note 5 a.
All crude oil revenue is received from two customers: Shell International Trading and Shipping Company Limited is the major customer and revenue receivable amounted to US$901,936,000 or 95% of total revenue excluding oil hedge gains and losses in the year ended 31 December 2013 2012: US$879,307,000 or 99% of total revenue.
All non-current assets of the Group are located in the United Kingdom except for US$13,414,000 2012: US$7,136,000 located in Malaysia and US$5,526,000 2012: nil located in Egypt.
Exceptional items and depletion of fair value uplift 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Recognised in arriving at profit loss from operations before tax and finance income costs : Impairment of available for sale investments note 14 312 4,417 Impairment of oil and gas assets 143,882 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 175,929 Depletion of fair value uplift 8,509 10,251 8,821 17,379 Tax 5,276 85,174 3,545 102,553 99 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 4.
Exceptional items and depletion of fair value uplift continued Impairment of available-for-sale investments As consideration for the disposal of the held for sale Petisovci asset, the Group received an investment in Ascent.
The accounting valuation of this shareholding at 30 June 2013 resulted in a non-cash impairment of US$312,000 2012: US$4,417,000.
During the second half of the year the share price increased resulting in a reversal of part of the impairment loss.
This is recognised in the available-for-sale reserve of US$398,000.
Impairment of oil and gas assets As part of the annual impairment review process, no impairment triggers were highlighted therefore no impairment was required for the year ended 31 December 2013.
In the year ended 31 December 2012 the Heather and Broom hub was impaired by US$143,882,000 refer to note 10.
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment On 12 October 2012, the Company entered into an agreement to farm out 35% of the Alma Galia development to KUFPEC UK Limited KUFPEC with an effective date of 1 January 2012.
The gain on disposal represents the difference between the total consideration received and the derecognition of 35% of the costs of development at the date of the agreement.
Depletion of fair value uplift Additional depletion arising from the fair value uplift of Petrofac Energy Developments Limiteds PEDL oil and gas assets on acquisition of US$8,509,000 2012: US$10,251,000 is included within cost of sales in the statement of comprehensive income.
Tax In addition to the tax impact of the exceptional items, in the prior year the tax exceptional amount includes the impact of the 2012 enactment of a restriction on relief of costs incurred in respect of the decommissioning of UK oil and gas assets to 50%.
This increased the tax charge in the year ended 31 December 2012 by US$14,279,000, of which US$10,389,000 was reflected as an exceptional item as it relates to the restriction on the opening decommissioning liability.
Revenue and expenses a Revenue Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Revenue from crude oil sales 953,752 879,307 Gain on realisation of financial instruments 53 Revenue from condensate sales 137 Tariff revenue 7,445 10,189 Other operating revenue 2 98 961,199 889,510 b Cost of sales Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Cost of operations 240,439 228,670 Tariff and transportation expenses 73,452 40,806 Change in lifting position 2,649 24,360 Inventory movement note 15 1,426 3,459 Depletion of oil and gas assets note 10 225,654 216,780 540,768 458,437 c Exploration and evaluation expenses Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Unsuccessful exploration expenditure written off note 12 704 6,514 Impairment charge note 12 1,262 6,583 Pre-licence costs expensed 6,675 10,060 8,641 23,157 For more information visit: www.
com 100 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 5.
Revenue and expenses continued d General and administration expenses Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Staff costs note 5 g 108,226 76,861 Depreciation note 10 6,914 1,483 Other general and administration costs 21,450 17,570 Recharge of costs to operations and joint venture partners 111,566 89,264 25,024 6,650 e Other income Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Other income 2,000 f Other expenses Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Net foreign exchange losses 20,452 8,445 g Staff costs Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Wages and salaries 44,790 30,069 Social security costs 5,128 4,054 Defined contribution pension costs 3,267 3,155 Expense of share-based payments note 19 8,193 5,163 Other staff costs 3,645 2,682 Total employee costs 65,023 45,123 Contractor costs 43,203 31,738 108,226 76,861 The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year was 245 2012: 173.
Details of remuneration, pension entitlement and incentive arrangements for each Director are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 74. h Auditors remuneration The following amounts were payable by the Group to its auditors Ernst & Young LLP during the year: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Fees payable to the Groups auditors for the audit of the Groups annual accounts 336 188 Fees payable to the Groups auditors and its associates for other services: The audit of the Groups subsidiaries 272 207 Audit related assurance services interim review 73 67 1 Tax advisory services 318 745 Other assurance services 43 5 Corporate finance services 148 706 1,172 1,042 1,360 1.
Costs of US$345,600 relating to tax advice on asset and corporate acquisitions were capitalised in the year ended 31 December 2012.
No costs were capitalised in the current year.
101 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 6.
Finance costs income Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Finance costs: Loan interest payable 2,954 668 Bond interest payable 10,360 Unwinding of discount on decommissioning provisions note 23 12,588 10,148 Cash flow hedge re-price premium 335 Fair value loss on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss note 21 7,724 2,147 Finance charges payable under finance leases 2 3 Other financial expenses 14,167 8,307 47,795 21,608 Less: amounts included in the cost of qualifying assets 1,241 397 46,554 21,211 Finance income: Bank interest receivable 429 686 Fair value gain on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss note 21 9,457 871 Unwinding of financial asset note 21 1,447 479 Other financial income 154 125 11,487 2,161 Fair value gains and losses on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss relate to foreign exchange forward and commodity forward contracts that did not qualify for hedge accounting.
Income tax a Income tax The major components of income tax expense are as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Group statement of comprehensive income Current income tax Current income tax charge 14,462 6,867 Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years 2,075 362 Overseas income tax Current income tax charge 3,379 2,007 Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years 703 842 Total current income tax 9,711 3,656 Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 133,314 50,724 Adjustments in respect of changes in tax rates 409 10,785 Adjustments in respect of deferred income tax of previous years 2,112 23,593 Overseas income tax Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 9 389 Total deferred income tax 131,620 37,527 Income tax expense reported in statement of comprehensive income 141,331 41,183 For more information visit: www.
com 102 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 7.
Income tax continued b Reconciliation of total income tax charge A reconciliation between the income tax charge and the product of accounting profit multiplied by the UK statutory tax rate is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Profit before tax 330,935 403,401 Statutory rate of corporation tax in the UK of 62% 2012: 62% 205,179 250,109 Supplementary corporation tax non-deductible expenditure 15,250 6,552 Non-deductible expenditure 508 3,310 Deductible lease expenditure 38,097 76,951 Non-taxable gain on sale of assets 109,076 Petroleum revenue tax net of income tax benefit 21,948 19,081 North Sea tax reliefs 55,034 29,894 Tax in respect of non-ring fence trade 5,184 10,837 Deferred tax rate decrease 409 396 North Sea oil and gas decommissioning rate restriction 2,824 14,279 Adjustments in respect of prior years 3,482 24,797 Overseas tax rate differences 2,171 464 Other differences 819 525 At the effective income tax rate of 43% 2012: 10% 141,331 41,183 c Deferred income tax Deferred income tax relates to the following: Group balance sheet Group profit and loss account 2013 2012 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Deferred tax liability Accelerated capital allowances 1,456,498 1,050,189 387,107 274,703 Deferred PRT 151,825 99,955 47,910 53,610 1,608,323 1,150,144 Deferred tax asset Losses 647,228 359,406 287,822 253,847 Decommissioning liability 114,113 116,476 16,057 4,108 Other temporary differences 100,720 65,175 31,632 32,831 862,061 541,057 Deferred tax expense 131,620 37,527 Deferred tax liabilities, net 746,262 609,087 Reflected in balance sheet as follows: Deferred tax assets 14,731 23,143 Deferred tax liabilities 760,993 632,230 Deferred tax liabilities, net 746,262 609,087 Reconciliation of deferred tax liabilities, net 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 2013 609,087 577,393 Tax expense during the period recognised in profit or loss 131,620 37,527 Tax expense during the period recognised in OCI 75 4,167 Deferred taxes acquired 5,480 10,000 At 31 December 2013 746,262 609,087 103 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 7.
Income tax continued d Tax losses Deferred income tax assets are recognised for the carry-forward of unused tax losses and unused tax credits to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the unused tax losses credits can be utilised.
The Group has unused UK mainstream corporation tax losses of US$2,481,000 2012: US$2,662,000 for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised at the balance sheet date due to the uncertainty of recovery of these losses.
The Group has unused overseas tax losses in Canada of approximately CAD$14,880,000 2012: CAD$17,106,000 and in Holland of 1,180,000 2012: 1,070,000 for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised at the balance sheet date.
The tax losses in Canada have expiry periods of between 7 and 20 years, none of which expire in 2014.
Tax losses in Holland can be carried forward for a period of up to nine years and are likely to expire in 2014. e Change in legislation Finance Act 2013 enacted a change in the mainstream corporation tax rate, reducing it from 23% to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014 and 20% with effect from 1 April 2015.
The impact of the change in tax rate was an increase in the tax charge of US$409,000.
Finance Act 2012 enacted a restriction on costs incurred in respect of decommissioning to 50%, compared to the North Sea ring fence rate of 62% on or after 21 March 2012.
The impact of the decommissioning relief restriction in 2012 was an increase in the tax charge of US$14,279,000, of which US$10,389,000 related to the revaluation of the opening decommissioning balances.
A change in the tax rate for non-ring fence companies was also enacted in the Finance Act 2012, reducing the corporation tax rate from 25% to 23% with effect from 1 April 2013.
The impact of the change in tax rate was an increase in the tax charge of US$396,000.
f Factors affecting future tax charges As at 31 December 2013, the Group is eligible for Field Allowances in the UK on Conrie, Alma, Galia, Thistle, Deveron, Kraken and Kraken North which will reduce the Ring Fence profits chargeable to Supplementary Charge.
Field Allowances are only granted when DECC approves a field development plan and are triggered when production commences.
Earnings per share The calculation of earnings per share is based on the profit after tax and on the weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the period.
Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated as follows: Weighted average Profit after tax number of shares Earnings per share Year ended 31 December Year ended 31 December Year ended 31 December 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Million Million US$ US$ Basic 189,604 362,218 778.2 784.1 0.244 0.462 Dilutive potential of Ordinary shares granted under share-based incentive schemes 18.1 13.3 0.006 0.008 Diluted 189,604 362,218 796.3 797.4 0.238 0.454 Adjusted excluding exceptional items 193,149 259,665 778.2 784.1 0.248 0.331 Diluted excluding exceptional items 193,149 259,665 796.3 797.4 0.243 0.326 9.
Dividends paid and proposed The Company paid no dividends during the year ended 31 December 2013 2012: nil.
At 31 December 2013 there are no proposed dividends 2012: nil.
com 104 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 10.
US$52,541,000 is included within acquired costs.
In November 2013, the Kraken field received Field Development Plan FDP approval which triggered the deferred consideration of US$45,000,000 due to Canamens Limited.
In addition, US$5,000,000 in respect of the Groups interest in Kraken and a further 7,000,000 US$11,592,000 in respect of back-in payments associated with the sole risk drilling undertaken by the previous operator of the Kraken appraisal well and exploration sidetrack became payable.
These amounts are included within Additions.
The consideration payable to Nautical Petroleum plc and First Oil plc for 40% of the Kraken field in 2012 were development carries, split between a US$240,000,000 firm carry payable on FDP approval and a contingent carry payable up to US$144,000,000 subject to reserves determination.
US$320,000,000 has been included within Cost carry above.
The remaining US$164,176,000 balance of the firm carry and US$80,000,000 of the contingent carry have been provided within financial liabilities note 21 and provisions note 23 respectively as at 31 December 2013.
Under the 2012 farm out agreement with KUFPEC for a 35% share of the Alma Galia development, KUFPEC were required to carry the Company for US$182,000,000.
This amount was initially recognised as an other receivable note 21 and then transferred to PP&E as the carry was exhausted.
During the year KUFPEC carried the Company for US$98,300,000 2012: US$86,698,000 under this carry arrangement.
The cost of the 35% share of assets disposed in 2012 was US$143,054,000.
There has been no impairment in the year ended 31 December 2013.
In the prior year the Heather and Broom hub was impaired by US$143,882,000 following a delay in phasing of production to allow drilling of the West Fault Block well at Thistle in 2013 and an increase in capital expenditure associated with the field life extension programme.
Refer to note 11 in respect of key assumptions used in value in use calculations.
At 31 December 2012, due to the recognition of proven and probable reserves for the Kraken field, US$61,994,000 of costs in relation to Kraken were reclassed from intangible to PP&E.
Also during 2012, prior year pre-development costs in relation to Crawford and Porter US$30,773,000 were transferred to intangible assets as a result of a decision to review development options.
105 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 10.
Property, plant and equipment continued The net book value at 31 December 2013 includes US$1,581,847,000 2012: US$599,620,000 of pre-development assets and development assets under construction which are not being depreciated.
Also US$10,142,000 of land and US$7,130,000 2012: nil of costs relating to the construction of the Groups new head office have not been depreciated.
The amount of borrowing costs capitalised during the year ended 31 December 2013 was US$1,241,000 and relate to the Alma Galia and Kraken development projects as well as the construction of the new office building 2012: US$397,000.
The weighted average rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation is 0.95% 2012: 0.84%.
The net book value of property, plant and equipment held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts at 31 December 2013 was US$141,000 2012: US$141,000 of oil and gas assets.
The net book value of US$10,695,000 2012: nil for land is held under a long lease.
Goodwill A summary of goodwill is presented below: 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 At 1 January and 31 December 107,760 107,760 The balance represents goodwill acquired on the acquisition of Stratic and PEDL in 2010.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to a single cash-generating unit CGU, the UKCS, being the Groups only significant operating segment and therefore the lowest level that goodwill is reviewed by the Board.
Impairment testing of goodwill In assessing whether goodwill has been impaired, the carrying amount of the CGU, including goodwill, is compared with its recoverable amount.
In certain circumstances IAS 36 allows the use of the most recent detailed calculations of the recoverable amount performed in an earlier period as the basis for the current years goodwill impairment test.
The most recent detailed calculation of the recoverable amount was performed in 2012 and this has been used as the basis for the tests in the current year as the criteria of IAS 36 has been met.
The recoverable amount of the CGU in 2012 was determined on a value in use basis using a discounted cash flow model comprising asset-by-asset life of field projections.
The pre-tax discount rate used is derived from the Groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital.
Risks specific to assets within the CGU are reflected within the cash flow forecasts.
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations The key assumptions required for the calculation of value in use of the CGU are: ``oil prices: ``production volumes: and ``discount rates.
Oil prices are based on forward price curves for the first five years before reverting to the Groups long term pricing assumptions.
For the purposes of calculating value in use in the 2012 test, management applied an oil price assumption of US$107.60 per barrel in 2013, US$102.00 per barrel in 2014, US$97.80 per barrel in 2015, US$94.30 per barrel in 2016, US$91.70 per barrel in 2017 thereafter US$90 inflated at 2% per annum from 2013.
Production volumes are based on life of field production profiles for each asset within the CGU.
The production volumes used in the value in use calculations were taken from the report prepared by the Groups independent reserve assessment experts.
The discount rate reflects managements estimate of the Groups weighted average cost of capital WACC.
The WACC takes into account both debt and equity.
The cost of equity is derived from the expected return on investment by the Groups investors.
The cost of debt is based on its interest-bearing borrowings.
Segment risk is incorporated by applying a beta factor based on publicly available market data.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to the Groups pre-tax cash flow projections in 2012 was 20.4%.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions The key assumptions to which the calculation of the value in use is most sensitive are oil price and production volumes.
No sensitivities need to be included as there is not a reasonably possible change that could result in an impairment.
com 106 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 12.
Intangible oil and gas assets US$000 Cost At 1 January 2012 125,704 Additions 77,120 Acquisition of interests in licences 39,103 Write-off of relinquished licences previously impaired 4,754 Unsuccessful exploration expenditure written off 6,514 Reclassified to property, plant and equipment note 10 31,221 Reclassified from asset held for sale note 13 1,254 At 31 December 2012 200,692 Additions 30,852 Farm out 2,648 Acquisition of interests in licences 6,837 Write-off of relinquished licences previously impaired 6,553 Unsuccessful exploration expenditure written off 704 Change in decommissioning provision 155 Reclassified from property, plant and equipment note 10 448 At 31 December 2013 228,769 Provision for impairment At 1 January 2012 101,357 Impairment charge for the year 6,583 Write-off of relinquished licences previously impaired 4,754 At 31 December 2012 103,186 Impairment charge for the year 1,262 Write-off of relinquished licences previously impaired 6,553 At 31 December 2013 97,895 Net carrying amount: At 31 December 2013 130,874 At 31 December 2012 97,506 At 1 January 2012 24,347 Included within Acquisition of interests in licences in 2013 is US$1,310,000 relating to a farm-in to a 50% non-operated interest in exploration licence P2006 Block 21 6b Avalon completed during the year.
Also included is the Groups 50% interest in the North West October block in Egypt, acquired in December from Arabian Oil Company Limited AOC, which is refundable by AOC in the event that first oil is not achieved.
Included within Acquisition of interests in licences in 2012 was the US$36,103,000 initial payment made for the acquisition of 20% of Kraken from Canamens Limited.
On 31 December 2012, the costs associated with Kraken were reclassified to PP&E due to the recognition of proven and probable reserves.
In addition, costs of US$3,000,000 to acquire an interest in two exploration licences in Malaysia are included within Acquisition of interests in licences.
In August 2013, an agreement was completed whereby KUFPEC and Spike Exploration UK Ltd Spike are to take 25% and 30% working interests respectively in the Cairngorm discovery blocks 16 2b and 16 3d.
KUFPEC and Spike have agreed to pay a premium by way of a promoted carry on the Cairngorm appraisal well and to pay their equity share of back costs of US$2,648,000 which are disclosed within Farm out costs.
During the year ended 31 December 2013, US$6,553,000 of costs relating to relinquished licences previously impaired were written off 2012: US$4,754,000.
The impairment charge for the year ended 31 December 2013 includes costs in relation to the Peik licence which is in the process of being relinquished.
During the year ended 31 December 2012 the impairment charge includes the costs of the Tryfan exploration well which proved to be uncommercial.
107 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13.
Assets held for sale US$000 At 1 January 2012 1,254 Reclassified to intangible fixed assets note 12 1,254 At 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 During 2011, the FQuad Dutch assets were reclassified as held for sale as they were subject to a swap arrangement whereby these were to be transferred to Sterling Resources Limited for a 50% share in the Cairngorm licence Block 16 3d.
This arrangement was finalised in December 2012 and therefore the costs were reclassified to intangible fixed assets.
Investments US$000 Cost At 1 January 2012, 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2013 19,231 Provision for impairment At 1 January 2012 12,497 Impairment charge for the year 4,417 At 31 December 2012 16,914 Impairment charge for the year 312 Reversal of impairment loss 398 At 31 December 2013 16,828 Net carrying amount: At 31 December 2013 2,403 At 31 December 2012 2,317 At 1 January 2012 6,734 The investment relates to 160,903,958 new ordinary shares in Ascent acquired in 2011.
The accounting valuation of the Groups shareholding based on the quoted share price of Ascent resulted in an additional non-cash impairment of US$312,000 in the six months to 30 June 2013 year ended 31 December 2012: US$4,417,000.
Since June 2013, the quoted share price has increased, resulting in a reversal of part of the impairment loss of US$398,000.
This has been recognised in the available-for-sale reserve.
Trade and other receivables 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Trade receivables 93,252 94,818 Joint venture receivables 116,341 100,918 Underlift position 17,248 9,242 VAT receivable 16,751 14,751 Other receivables 15,055 652 258,647 220,381 Prepayments and accrued income 8,533 19,341 267,180 239,722 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 15 to 30 day terms.
Trade receivables are reported net of any provisions for impairment.
As at 31 December 2013 no impairment provision for trade receivables was necessary 2012: nil.
com 108 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 16.
Trade and other receivables continued Joint venture receivables relate to billings to joint venture partners and were not impaired.
At 31 December 2012 the amount included as due from KUFPEC in respect of the carry was US$53,261,000.
As at 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 no other receivables were determined to be impaired.
The carrying value of the Groups trade, joint venture and other receivables as stated above is considered to be a reasonable approximation to their fair value largely due to their short-term maturities.
Cash and cash equivalents The carrying value of the Groups cash and cash equivalents is considered to be a reasonable approximation to their fair value due to their short-term maturities.
Included within the cash balance at 31 December 2013 is restricted cash of nil 2012: US$14,880,000 relating to cash held under Performance Guarantee Agreements with suppliers.
Share capital The share capital of the Company as at 31 December was as follows: 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Authorised, issued and fully paid 802,660,757 2012: 802,660,757 Ordinary shares of 0.05 each 61,249 61,249 Share premium 52,184 52,184 113,433 113,433 The share capital comprises only one class of Ordinary share.
Each Ordinary share carries an equal voting right and right to a dividend.
There were no new issues of shares during 2013 or 2012.
At 31 December 2013 there were 25,510,520 shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust 2012: 22,966,471, the increase is due to the purchase of shares to satisfy awards made under the Companys share-based incentive schemes net of shares used during the year.
Share-based payment plans On 18 March 2010, the Directors of the Company approved three share schemes for the benefit of Directors and employees, being a Deferred Bonus Share Plan, a Restricted Share Plan and a Performance Share Plan.
A Sharesave Plan was approved in 2012.
The grant values for all schemes are based on the average share price from the three days preceding the date of grant.
Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP Selected employees are eligible to participate under this scheme.
Participants may be invited to elect or, in some cases, be required, to receive a proportion of any bonus in Ordinary shares of EnQuest invested awards.
Following such award, EnQuest will generally grant the participant an additional award over a number of shares bearing a specified ratio to the number of his or her invested shares matching shares.
The awards granted in 2013, 2012 and 2011 will vest 33% on the first anniversary of the date of grant, a further 33% after year two and the final 34% on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
The awards granted in 2010 will vest 25% on the second anniversary of the date of grant, a further 25% after year three and the final 50% on the fourth anniversary of the date of grant.
The invested awards are fully recognised as an expense in the period to which the bonuses relate.
The costs relating to the matching shares are recognised over the vesting period and the fair values of the equity-settled matching shares granted to employees are based on quoted market prices adjusted for the trued up percentage vesting rate of the plan.
Details of the fair values and assumed vesting rates of the DBSP scheme are shown below: Weighted average fair value per Trued up share vesting rate 2013 awards 127p 99% 2012 awards 124p 95% 2011 awards 137p 78% 2010 awards 101p 58% 109 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19.
Share-based payment plans continued The following shows the movement in the number of share awards held under the DBSP scheme outstanding: 2013 2012 1 1 Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 1,018,357 526,080 Granted during the year 848,922 783,410 Exercised during the year 359,077 230,743 Forfeited during the year 24,201 60,390 Outstanding at 31 December 1,484,001 1,018,357 1.
Includes invested and matching shares.
There were no share awards exercisable at either 31 December 2013 or 2012.
The weighted average contractual life for the share awards outstanding as at 31 December 2013 was 1.0 years 2012: 1.1 years.
The charge recognised in the 2013 statement of comprehensive income in relation to matching share awards amounted to US$1,058,000 2012: US$701,000.
Restricted Share Plan RSP Under the Restricted Share Plan scheme, employees are granted shares in EnQuest over a discretionary vesting period, at the direction of the Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors of EnQuest, which may or may not be subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
Awards made in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 under the RSP will vest over periods between one and four years.
At present there are no performance conditions applying to this scheme nor is there currently any intention to introduce them in the future.
The fair value of the awards granted under the plan at various grant dates during the year are based on quoted market prices adjusted for an assumed vesting rate over the relevant vesting period.
Details of the fair values and assumed vesting rate of the RSP scheme are shown below: Weighted average fair value per Trued up share vesting rate 2013 awards 127p 98% 2012 awards 122p 85% 2011 awards 119p 92% 2010 awards 103p 92% The following table shows the movement in the number of share awards held under the RSP scheme outstanding: 2013 2012 Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 8,158,207 8,305,132 Granted during the year 1,567,800 686,000 Exercised during the year 1,055,827 738,753 Forfeited during the year 290,462 94,172 Outstanding at 31 December 8,379,718 8,158,207 Exercisable at 31 December 2,191,424 1,312,156 The weighted average contractual life for the share awards outstanding as at 31 December 2013 was 1.0 years 2012: 1.2 years.
The charge recognised in the year ended 31 December 2013 amounted to US$3,007,000 2012: US$2,572,000.
com 110 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 19.
Share-based payment plans continued Performance Share Plan PSP Under the Performance Share Plan, the shares vest subject to performance conditions.
The PSP share awards granted in 2011, 2012 and 2013 had three sets of performance conditions associated with them.
One third of the award relates to Total Shareholder Return TSR against a comparator group of 36 oil and gas companies listed on the FTSE 350, AIM Top 100 and Stockholm NASDAQ OMX: one third relates to production growth per share: and one third relates to reserves growth per share, over the three year performance period.
Awards will vest on the third anniversary.
Details of the fair values and assumed vesting rate of the PSP scheme are shown below: Weighted average fair value per Trued up share vesting rate 2013 awards 127p 97% 2012 awards 124p 94% 2011 awards 137p 96% The following table shows the movement in the number of share awards held under the PSP scheme outstanding: 2013 2012 Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 4,602,639 1,668,522 Granted during the year 3,936,000 3,021,117 Forfeited during the year 239,613 87,000 Outstanding at 31 December 8,299,026 4,602,639 There were no share awards exercisable at either 31 December 2013 or 2012.
The weighted average contractual life for the share awards outstanding as at 31 December 2013 was 1.5 years 2012: 1.9 years.
The charge recognised in the year ended 31 December 2013 amounted to US$4,066,000 2012: US$1,802,000.
Sharesave plan The Group operates an approved savings related share option scheme.
The plan is based on eligible employees being granted options and their agreement to opening a sharesave account with a nominated savings carrier and to save over a specified period, either three or five years.
The right to exercise the option is at the employees discretion at the end of the period previously chosen, for a period of six months.
Details of the fair values and assumed vesting rates of the Sharesave plan are shown below: Weighted average fair value per Trued up share vesting rate 2013 awards 20p 100% 2012 awards 20p 83% 111 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19.
Share-based payment plans continued The following shows the movement in the number of share options held under the Sharesave plan outstanding: 2013 2012 Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 697,380 Granted during the year 464,460 746,880 Forfeited during the year 75,720 49,500 Outstanding at 31 December 1,086,120 697,380 There were no share options exercisable at either 31 December 2013 or 2012.
The weighted average contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2013 was 2.5 years 2012: 2.9 years.
The charge recognised in the 2013 statement of comprehensive income amounted to US$62,000 2012: US$88,000.
The Company has recognised a total charge of US$8,193,000 2012: US$5,163,000 in the statement of comprehensive income during the year, relating to the above employee share-based schemes.
Loans and borrowings Revolving credit facility At 31 December 2012 the Group had a US$900,000,000 multi-currency revolving credit facility agreement with Lloyds TSB Bank, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Crdit Agricole CIB, NICB Bank and Royal Bank of Scotland comprising a committed amount of US$525,000,000 with an additional US$375,000,000 available primarily for investment opportunities with the lenders consent.
On 30 October 2013 the Group established a new six year US$1,700,000,000 multi-currency credit facility, comprising of a committed amount of US$1,200,000,000 with a further US$500,000,000 available through an accordion structure.
Interest on the revolving credit facility is payable at US LIBOR plus a margin of 2.50% to 3.75%, dependent on specified covenant ratios.
A facility non-utilisation commitment fee is payable at 40% of the interest margin.
Unamortised facility fees of US$26,413,000 have been netted off against the draw downs in the balance sheet.
The Group considers there to be no material difference between the fair values of the interest bearing loans and borrowings and the carrying amounts in the balance sheet.
Bond In February 2013, the Group issued a 5.5% Sterling Retail Bond through the Order book for Retail Bonds ORB of the London Stock Exchange ORB.
The original bond raised 145,000,000 with an additional 10,245,000 issued in November 2013.
The bond pays a coupon of 5.5% payable bi-annually in February and August and matures in 2022.
The bond had a fair value of US$263,498,446 but is carried at its amortised cost of US$258,791,000.
The fair value has been determined by reference to the price available from the market on which the bond is traded.
com 112 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 21.
Other financial assets and financial liabilities 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Financial instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income Current liabilities Cash flow hedges: Forward foreign currency contracts 121 Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss Current assets Derivatives not designated as hedges: Commodity forward contracts 1,170 Forward foreign currency contracts 8,455 8,455 1,170 Non-current assets Derivatives not designated as hedges: Forward foreign currency contracts 702 Current liabilities Derivatives not designated as hedges: Commodity forward contracts 5,084 299 Forward foreign currency contracts 631 5,715 299 Non-current liabilities Derivatives not designated as hedges: Forward foreign currency contracts 839 Loans and receivables Current assets Other receivable 95,302 Non-current assets Other receivable 21,226 19,447 Other financial liabilities at amortised cost Current liabilities Other liability 164,176 17,150 Total current assets 8,455 96,472 Total non-current assets 21,928 19,447 Total assets 30,383 115,919 Total current liabilities 169,891 17,570 Total non-current liabilities 839 Total liabilities 170,730 17,570 Commodity forward contracts In August and September 2013, the Group entered into five options in order to hedge the exposure to changes in future cash flows from the sale of oil production for approximately 3,600,000 barrels of oil in 2014.
These instruments were deemed to be ineffective for hedge accounting purposes and are therefore designated as At fair value through profit and loss FVTPL.
These contracts had a fair value of US$5,084,000 loss.
Losses of US$5,084,000 were taken into profit and loss during the year and are included within other finance expenses.
In November 2012, the Group entered into three separate put and call options in order to hedge the exposure to changes in future cash flows from the sale of oil production for approximately 1,000,000 barrels of oil in the first quarter of 2013.
These instruments were deemed to be ineffective for hedging purposes and are therefore designated As at fair value through profit and loss FVTPL.
The derivative instruments had a net asset fair value of nil 2012: US$871,000.
The gains of US$871,000 at 31December 2012 were reversed during the current year and have been taken to the income statement where US$1,170,000 is included within other finance costs and US$299,000 is included within other finance income.
During 2013, additional put and call options hedging oil production for approxiamately 3,600,000 barrels of oil in 2013 were entered into but had expired by 31 December 2013.
Therefore there is no fair value or profit and loss account impact during the year.
113 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 21.
Other financial assets and financial liabilities continued Forward foreign currency contracts During the year ended 31 December 2013, the Group entered into various forward currency contracts, namely Sterling, Euro and Norwegian Krone.
These contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting.
At 31 December 2013 these had a net fair value of US$7,688,000 asset.
The gains of US$7,688,000 were recognised in profit and loss, US$9,158,000 shown within other finance income and US$1,470,000 shown within other finance expenses.
These contracts are due to expire during 2014 and 2015.
Also during the year various forward foreign currency contracts, namely Sterling and Euro, were entered into.
However, these had expired by 31 December 2013 and therefore have no fair value or impact on the income statement.
At 31 December 2012 three foreign currency contracts were held with a net fair value of US$121,000 liability : these had fully unwound by 31 December 2013.
During 2013, the unrealised loss of US$46,000 net of deferred tax of US$75,000 was reversed through other comprehensive income.
There was no impact in profit or loss during the year in respect of these contracts 2012: nil.
Other receivable As part of the farm out to KUFPEC of 35% of the Alma Galia development, KUFPEC agreed to carry EnQuest up to a cap of US$182,000,000 and agreed to pay EnQuest a total of US$23,292,000 after production commences over a period of 36 months, the fair value of which was US$19,300,000.
Receivables were recognised for both of these at 31 December 2012.
At 31 December 2013, the carry element has fully unwound and during the year ended 31 December 2013, US$95,300,000 was capitalised within property, plant and equipment.
The unwinding of discount on the other receivable of US$1,447,000 is included within finance income for the year ended 31 December 2013 2012: US$479,000.
Other liability Under the KUFPEC agreement a balancing payment was also agreed whereby should the cost of development exceed US$1,055,000,000 then EnQuest would be required to pay 17.5% of costs up to a cap on the cost of development of US$1,153,000,000.
At 31 December 2012, as costs were expected to exceed the cap, a liability of US$17,150,000 was recognised.
This was subsequently settled during the year ended 31 December 2013.
The consideration for the acquisition of 40% of the Kraken field from Nautical and First Oil in 2012 was through development carries.
These were split into a firm carry and a contingent carry dependent upon reserves determination.
A financial liability is recognised at 31 December 2013 for the remainder of the firm carry amounting to US$164,176,000.
This is expected to expire at the end of 2014 or early 2015.
The contingent carry has been accounted for as a provision note 23.
Other Other liability receivable US$000 US$000 At 1 January 2012 Additions during the year 17,150 114,602 Unwinding of discount 479 At 31 December 2012 17,150 115,081 Additions during the year 240,000 Utilised during the year 92,974 95,302 Unwinding of discount 1,447 At 31 December 2013 164,176 21,226 For more information visit: www.
com 114 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 22.
Fair value measurement The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the Groups assets and liabilities: Significant Significant Quoted prices observable unobservable in active markets inputs inputs Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Date of valuation US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Assets measured at fair value: Derivative financial assets Forward foreign currency contracts 31 December 2013 9,158 9,158 Other financial assets Available-for-sale financial investments Quoted equity shares 31 December 2013 2,404 2,404 Liabilities measured at fair value: Derivative financial liabilities Forward foreign currency contracts 31 December 2013 1,470 1,470 Commodity forward contracts 31 December 2013 5,084 5,084 Other liability Liabilities for which fair values are disclosed notes 20 and 25 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 31 December 2013 199,396 199,396 Obligations under finance leases 31 December 2013 107 107 Sterling retail bond 31 December 2013 263,498 263,498 There have been no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the period.
The forward foreign currency and the commodity forward contracts were valued externally by the respective banks.
Provisions Decomm issioning provision Carry provision Total US$000 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 2012 181,237 181,237 Additions during the year 37,609 37,609 Farm in to West Don 14,569 14,569 Farm out of Alma Galia development 7,054 7,054 Changes in estimates 10,061 10,061 Unwinding of discount 10,148 10,148 Utilisation 13,618 13,618 At 31 December 2012 232,952 232,952 Additions during the year 3,941 80,000 83,941 Acquisition 27,341 27,341 Changes in estimates 48,711 48,711 Unwinding of discount 12,588 12,588 Utilisation 315 315 At 31 December 2013 228,426 80,000 308,426 Provision for decommissioning The Group makes full provision for the future costs of decommissioning its oil production facilities and pipelines on a discounted basis.
With respect to the Heather field, the decommissioning provision is based on the Groups contractual obligation of 37.5% of the decommissioning liability rather than the Groups equity interest in the field.
The provision represents the present value of decommissioning costs which are expected to be incurred up to 2032 assuming no further development of the Groups assets.
The liability is discounted at a rate of 5.0% 2012: 5.0%.
The unwinding of the discount is classified as a finance cost note 6.
These provisions have been created based on internal and third party estimates.
Assumptions based on the current economic environment have been made which management believe are a reasonable basis upon which to estimate the future liability.
These estimates are reviewed regularly to take into account any material changes to the assumptions.
However, actual decommissioning costs will ultimately depend upon future market prices for the necessary decommissioning works required which will reflect market conditions at the relevant time.
Furthermore, the timing of decommissioning liabilities is likely to depend on the dates when the fields cease to be economically viable.
This in turn depends on future oil prices which are inherently uncertain.
115 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23.
Provisions continued Carry provision Consideration for the acquisition of 40% of the Kraken field from Nautical and First Oil in 2012 was through development carries.
A provision has been recognised for the contingent carry which is dependent on a reserves determination.
The reserves determination would be triggered by the carried parties, based on drilling work, or if later the date on which the firm carry expires.
The contingent carry is pro-rated between 100 and 166 million barrels of proven and probable reserves.
The FDP which was approved in November 2013 stated 137 million barrels and this would give rise to a carry of approximately US$80,000,000.
The carry is estimated to be paid 12 months after the firm carry has expired in late 2014 or early 2015.
Trade and other payables 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Trade payables 131,526 81,885 Accrued expenses 231,295 232,877 Other payables 489 14,904 363,310 329,666 Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on terms of between 10 and 30 days.
Certain trade and other payables will be settled in currencies other than the reporting currency of the Group, mainly in Sterling.
Accrued expenses include accruals for capital and operating expenditure in relation to the oil and gas assets.
The carrying value of the Groups trade and other payables as stated above is considered to be a reasonable approximation to their fair value largely due to the short-term maturities.
Commitments and contingencies Commitments i Operating lease commitments The Group has financial commitments in respect of non-cancellable operating leases for office premises.
These leases have remaining non-cancellable lease terms of between one and nine years.
The future minimum rental commitments under these non-cancellable leases are as follows: 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Not later than one year 2,703 2,025 After one year but not more than five years 3,267 4,781 Over five years 2,235 2,772 8,205 9,578 Lease payments recognised as an operating lease expense during the year amounted to US$2,676,000 2012: US$2,324,819.
Under the Dons Northern Producer Agreement a minimum notice period of 12 months exists whereby the Group expects the minimum commitment under this agreement to be approximately US$24,363,000 2012: US$17,240,000.
ii Finance lease commitments The Group had the following obligations under finance leases as at the balance sheet date: 2013 2013 2012 2012 Minimum Present value Minimum Present value payments of payments payments of payments US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Due in less than one year 36 35 37 34 Due in more than one year but not more than five years 74 72 110 107 110 107 147 141 Less future financing charges 3 6 107 107 141 141 The leases are fixed rate leases with an effective borrowing rate of 2.37% 2012: 2.37% and have an average remaining life of two years 2012: three years.
com 116 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 25.
Commitments and contingencies continued On 20 December 2013, the Group entered into a bareboat charter with Armada Kraken PTE Limited Armada for the lease of an FPSO vessel for the Kraken field.
The lease will commence on the date of first production which is currently targeted to come onstream by 2017.
Armada will construct the vessel and the Group will incur an initial payment, before the lease commences, of US$100,000,000 due on certain milestones being reached by Armada.
iii Capital commitments At 31 December 2013, the Group had capital commitments excluding the above lease commitments amounting to US$447,293,000 2012: US$203,620,000.
Contingencies As part of the KUFPEC farm in agreement, a reserves protection mechanism was agreed with KUFPEC to enable KUFPEC to recoup its investment to the date of first production.
If on 1 January 2017, KUFPECs costs to first production have not been recovered or deemed to have been recovered, EnQuest will pay to KUFPEC an additional 20% share of net revenue giving them 55% in total.
This additional revenue is to be paid from January 2017 until the actual net revenue or the deemed net revenue equals or exceeds the costs to first production.
In addition, there is contingent consideration of US$20,000,000 after the acquisition of Nio Sabah Limited which will be determined based on proven and probable reserves associated with an approved FDP on Blocks SB307 and SB308 in Malaysia.
An exploration appraisal well is expected to be drilled in the area in 2014.
There is also deferred consideration of US$3,000,000 dependent on FDP approval in relation to the 20% interest in Kildrummy acquired from ENI UK Limited during the year ended 31 December 2012.
Related party transactions The Group financial statements include the financial statements of EnQuest PLC and its subsidiaries.
A list of the Groups principal subsidiaries is contained in note 29 to these Group financial statements.
Balances and transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
All sales to and purchases from related parties are made at normal market prices and the pricing policies and terms of these transactions are approved by the Groups management.
There have been no transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group during the year ended 31 December 2013 2012: nil.
Compensation of key management personnel The following table details remuneration of key management personnel of the Group comprising Executive and NonExecutive Directors of the Company and other senior personnel: 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Short term employee benefits 3,775 4,306 Share-based payments 4,314 4,086 Post employment pension benefits 31 30 8,120 8,422 117 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 27.
Risk management and financial instruments Risk management objectives and policies The Groups principal financial assets and liabilities comprise trade and other receivables, cash and short term deposits, interestbearing loans, borrowings and finance leases, derivative financial instruments and trade and other payables.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to manage short term cash flow and raise finance for the Groups capital expenditure programme.
The Groups activities expose it to various financial risks particularly associated with fluctuations in oil price, foreign currency risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Management reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below.
Also presented below is a sensitivity analysis to indicate sensitivity to changes in market variables on the Groups financial instruments and to show the impact on profit and shareholders equity, where applicable.
The sensitivity has been prepared for periods ended 31 December 2013 and 2012 using the amounts of debt and other financial assets and liabilities held at those reporting dates.
Commodity price risk oil prices The Group is exposed to the impact of changes in Brent oil prices on its revenues and profits generated from sales of crude oil.
During 2012, the Board of EnQuest approved a policy to hedge up to a maximum of 75% of annual oil production.
In November 2011, the Group entered into five separate put and call options to hedge approximately 3,000,000 barrels of oil in 2012.
During November 2012, the Company entered into three put and call options, to hedge approximately 1,000,000 barrels of oil in the first quarter of 2013 and during the year the Group entered into put and call options covering a further 3,600,000 barrels of oil production for 2013.
These contracts consisted of put spreads at US$95US$100 per barrel and US$70-US$75 per barrel and calls at an average of US$121.6 per barrel, all executed at nil cost.
In August and September 2013, some commodity hedging contracts were entered into partially to hedge the exposure to fluctuations in the Brent oil price during 2014.
A total of 3,600,000 barrels of puts 300,000 barrels a month were bought at a price of US$106 per barrel and 7,200,000 barrels of calls were sold at a price of US$106, which are only triggered if the monthly average price of Brent exceeds a fixed price for the given month ranging from US$119 to US$124 per barrel.
Since the year end the Company has swapped an additional 1,000,000 barrels in Q2 at prices of approximately US$109 per barrel.
The following table summarises the impact on the Groups pre-tax profit and total equity of a reasonably possible change in the Brent oil price, with all other variables held constant: Pre-tax profit Total equity US$10 Bbl US$10 Bbl US$10 Bbl US$10 Bbl increase decrease increase decrease US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 31 December 2013 12,069 35,907 4,586 13,645 31 December 2012 76,337 76,323 29,008 29,003 This analysis includes the impact of the ineffective oil hedges outstanding at 31 December 2013.
Foreign currency risk The Group has transactional currency exposures.
Such exposure arises from sales or purchases in currencies other than the Groups functional currency and the bond which is denominated in Sterling.
The Group manages this risk by converting United States Dollar receipts at spot rates periodically and as required for payments in other currencies.
Approximately 1% 2012: 1% of the Groups sales and 91% 2012: 89% of costs are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group had entered into 11 forward currency contracts partially to hedge the Groups exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies, namely Sterling and Euro.
The contracts matured during 2012 and 2013.
During the first half of 2013, the Group entered into a series of forward contracts and structured products to hedge a portion of its Sterling, Euro and Norwegian Krone exposure throughout 2013 and 2014.
The structured products have an average strike price of US$1.46:1.
If the spot rate at expiry is above US$1.64:1 then there is no trade and the Group funds its Sterling requirement through the spot market or drawing Sterling on the bank facility.
Between US$1.64:1 and US$1.33:1, EnQuest trades at the lower of US$1.46:1 and the spot rate and below US$1.33:1, EnQuest trades a higher volume of currency at US$1.46:1.
This structure has also been used for hedging a total of 182,000,000 of Sterling exposure in 2014.
com 118 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 27.
Risk management and financial instruments continued The same structure has also been used to hedge the Groups Norwegian Krone NOK exposure which arises as part of the Kraken development project.
In 2013, EnQuest exchanged a total of 74,000,000 for US$96,000,000 mainly done by placing forward contracts, however 11,000,000 was placed on the same structured basis as the Sterling and Norwegian Krone arrangements described above.
The following table summarises the impact on the Groups pre-tax profit and equity due to the change in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities of a reasonably possible change in the United States Dollar to Sterling exchange rate: Pre-tax profit Total equity 10% US Dollar 10% US Dollar 10% US Dollar 10% US Dollar rate increase rate decrease rate increase rate decrease US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 31 December 2013 30,917 30,917 11,748 11,748 31 December 2012 24,918 24,918 9,234 9,234 Credit risk The Group trades only with recognised international oil and gas operators and at 31 December 2013 there were no trade receivables past due 2012: nil, and US$1,981,000 of joint venture receivables past due but not impaired 2012: US$4,078,000.
Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with appropriate follow-up action taken where necessary.
2013 2012 Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables US$000 US$000 Less than 30 days 4 143 3060 days 144 6090 days 78 90120 days 89 120 days 1,977 3,624 1,981 4,078 At 31 December 2013, the Group had two customers accounting for 72% of outstanding trade and other receivables 2012: one customer, 87% and three joint venture partners accounting for 99% of joint venture receivables 2012: three joint venture partners, 90%.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
Cash balances can be invested in short term bank deposits and AAA-rated liquidity funds, subject to Board approved limits and with a view to minimising counterparty credit risks.
Liquidity risk The Group monitors its risk to a shortage of funds by reviewing its cash flow requirements on a regular basis relative to its existing bank facilities and the maturity profile of these facilities.
Specifically the Groups policy is to ensure that sufficient liquidity or committed facilities exist within the Group to meet its operational funding requirements and to ensure the Group can service its debt and adhere to its financial covenants.
Throughout the year and at 31 December 2013 the Group was in compliance with all financial covenant ratios agreed with its bankers.
At 31 December 2012 the Group had a US$900,000,000 multi-currency revolving credit facility agreement with Lloyds TSB Bank, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Crdit Agricole CIB, NICB Bank and Royal Bank of Scotland comprising a committed amount of US$525,000,000 with an additional US$375,000,000 available primarily for investment opportunities with the lenders consent.
On 31 October 2013, the Group established a six year US$1,700,000,000 multicurrency credit facility, comprising of a committed amount of US$1,200,000,000 with a further US$500,000,000 available through an accordion structure.
An upfront arrangement fee of 2.00% was payable.
Interest on the revolving credit facility is payable at LIBOR relative to each agreed loan period plus a margin of 2.50% to 3.75% dependent on the Groups leverage ratio.
Facility non-utilisation commitment fees are payable at 40% of the interest margin.
119 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 27.
Risk management and financial instruments continued The maturity profiles of the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities are as follows: On demand Up to 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Year ended 31 December 2013 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Loans and borrowings 26,100 21,580 38,310 255,809 341,799 Bond 14,140 14,140 42,418 299,502 370,200 Obligations under finance leases 35 36 36 107 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 363,310 363,310 Other liability 164,176 164,176 Carry provision 80,000 80,000 363,310 204,451 115,756 80,764 555,311 1,319,592 On demand Up to 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Year ended 31 December 2012 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Loans and borrowings 34,600 34,600 Obligations under finance leases 34 35 72 141 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 329,666 329,666 Financial expenses 1,123 1,123 Other liability 17,150 17,150 329,666 18,307 35 34,672 382,680 The following tables detail the Groups expected maturity of payables receivables for its derivative financial instruments.
The amounts in these tables are different from the balance sheet as the table is prepared on a contractual undiscounted cash flow basis.
Less than On demand 3 months 3 to 12 months 1 to 2 years 2 years Total Year ended 31 December 2013 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Foreign exchange forward contracts 16,126 43,440 45,475 105,041 Foreign exchange forward contracts 16,126 43,440 45,475 105,041 Less than On demand 3 months 3 to 12 months 1 to 2 years 2 years Total Year ended 31 December 2012 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Foreign exchange forward contracts 6,298 6,298 Foreign exchange forward contracts 6,298 6,298 - At 31 December 2012 and 2013, the Group held commodity forward contracts for which, based on the oil price at 31 December 2012 and 2013, there were no projected contracted cash flows.
Capital management The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in notes 20 and 25, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as in the Group Statement of Changes in Equity on page 87.
The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to optimise the return on investment, by managing its capital structure to achieve capital efficiency whilst also maintaining flexibility for future acquisitions.
The Group regularly monitors the capital requirements of the business over the short, medium and long term, in order to enable it to foresee when additional capital will be required.
Note 20 to the financial statements provides further details of the Groups financing activity.
The Group has approval from the Board to hedge the exchange risk on up to 70% and 50% of the non US Dollar portion of the Groups annual capital budget and operating expenditure respectively.
In addition there is approval from the Board to hedge up to 75% of annual production in year 1, 60% in year 2 and 50% in year 3.
This is designed to minimise the risk of adverse movements in exchange rates and prices eroding the return on the Groups projects and operations.
com 120 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 27.
Risk management and financial instruments continued The Board regularly reassesses the existing dividend policy to ensure that shareholder value is maximised.
It continues to believe that, in the light of the Groups significant capital projects and exploration and acquisition opportunities, the enhancement of shareholder value can best be achieved by reinvesting the Groups cash.
Any future payment of dividends is expected to depend on the earnings and financial condition of the Company and such other factors as the Board considers appropriate.
The Group monitors capital using the gearing ratio and return on shareholders equity as follows: 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Loans, borrowings and bond net A 453,896 34,600 Cash and short term deposits 72,809 124,522 Net debt cash B 381,087 89,922 Equity attributable to EnQuest PLC shareholders C 1,484,709 1,293,869 Profit for the year attributable to EnQuest PLC shareholders D 189,604 362,218 Profit for the year attributable to EnQuest PLC shareholders excluding exceptionals E 193,149 259,665 Gross gearing ratio A C 0.306 0.027 Net gearing ratio B C 0.257 n a Shareholders return on investment D C 13% 28% Shareholders return on investment excluding exceptionals E C 13% 20% 28.
Post balance sheet events In January 2014, EnQuest was offered and accepted two licences in the Norwegian 2013 Awards in Pre-defined Areas licensing round, both located in the Norwegian Sea.
EnQuest was offered production licence 758 Rosslyng, with EnQuest as the operator and having a 35% interest.
EnQuest was also offered licence 760 Chinook, with Total as the operator, both Total and EnQuest having a 50% interest each.
In both cases, the work commitments in the initial two year period entail 3D seismic licensing and reprocessing.
In Q1 2014, EnQuest accepted an out of round licence in the Don North East Don NE area for blocks 211 18e and 211 19c, including Area 23 and Area 24 and an undrilled extension to the Don NE field.
Within the first twelve months of the licence, it is intended to submit a field development plan in relation to Area 24, to include at least one production well.
This will provide further opportunities to enhance Dons area production.
Acquisition of Greater Kittiwake assets On 22 October 2013, the Group announced an agreement with Centrica North Sea Oil Limited Centrica to acquire the UKCS Greater Kittiwake area assets as well as Centricas 100% interest in the Kittiwake to Forties oil export pipeline.
Consideration is US$39,900,000 and will additionally assume net debt of US$5,100,000, which is subject to certain working capital and other adjustments.
The Group acquired the Greater Kittiwake assets partly due to its proximity to the Scolty Crathes field and the potential for a tie-back, in addition, the Group sees significant potential to improve production through infill drilling and through exploring further prospects in the area.
The acquisition completed on 28 February 2014.
The provisional fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Greater Kittiwake, as at the date of acquisition are: Provisional fair value recognised on acquisition US$000 Property, plant and equipment 59.2 Intangible assets 19.8 Working capital 9.2 Underlift position 6.0 Decommissioning provision 66.2 Deferred tax liability 7.9 Total identifiable net assets at fair value 1.7 Goodwill arising on acquisition 55.0 Purchase consideration 56.7 121 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 28.
Post balance sheet events continued US$000 Purchase consideration transferred 30.0 Contingent consideration 26.7 Total purchase consideration 56.7 The fair values are provisional as the acquisition completed after the year end and a full assessment of the fair values is still required.
The review of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired will be completed within 12 months of the acquisition.
The goodwill of US$55,000,000 comprises the value of expected synergies arising from the acquisition.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
As the acquisition did not complete prior to the end of the year, there has been no contribution to revenue or profit before tax for the Group.
Transaction costs have been expensed and will be included in administration expenses.
The Group will pay deferred consideration of US$30,000,000 contingent on regulatory approval of a Field Development Plan for the Scolty field and or the Crathes field.
This has been fair valued at US$18,000,000.
In addition contingent consideration may be payable subject to future exploration success with a fair value of US$8,700,000.
At the acquisition date, the fair value of the total contingent consideration was estimated to be US$26,700,000.
Subsidiaries At 31 December 2013, EnQuest PLC had investments in the following subsidiaries: Proportion of nominal value of issued shares Country of controlled by Name of company Principal activity incorporation the Group EnQuest North Sea BV Intermediate holding company Netherlands 100% EnQuest Britain Limited Intermediate holding company and provision of Group England 100% manpower and contracting procurement services 1 EnQuest Dons Limited Exploration, extraction and production of hydrocarbons England 100% 1 EnQuest Dons Oceania Limited Exploration, extraction and production of hydrocarbons Cayman Islands 100% 1 EnQuest Heather Limited Exploration, extraction and production of hydrocarbons England 100% 1 EnQuest Thistle Limited Extraction and production of hydrocarbons England 100% 1 Stratic Energy UK Limited Exploration, extraction and production of hydrocarbons England 100% 1 Stratic UK Holdings Limited Intermediate holding company England 100% 1 Grove Energy Limited Intermediate holding company and exploration Canada 100% of hydrocarbons 1 Grove Energy Tunisia Limited Exploration, extraction and production of hydrocarbons USA 100% 1 EnQuest ENS Limited Exploration, extraction and production of hydrocarbons England 100% 1 EnQuest UKCS Limited Exploration, extraction and production of hydrocarbons England 100% EnQuest Norge AS Exploration, extraction and production of hydrocarbons Norway 100% 1 EnQuest Heather Leasing Limited Leasing England 100% 1 Nio Petroleum Sabah Limited Exploration, extraction and production of hydrocarbons England 100% 1 EnQuest Dons Leasing Limited Dormant England 100% 1 EQ Property Limited Property development England 100% 1 EnQuest Energy Limited Exploration, extraction and production of hydrocarbons England 100% 1 EnQuest Production Limited Exploration, extraction and production of hydrocarbons England 100% 1 EnQuest Global Limited Intermediate holding company England 100% 1 EnQuest NWO Limited Exploration, extraction and production of hydrocarbons England 100% 1 EnQuest Malaysia Limited Exploration, extraction and production of hydrocarbons England 100% 1 EnQuest UK Limited Dormant England 100% 1 EnQuest ED Limited Dormant England 100% EQ Petroleum Developments Exploration, extraction and production of hydrocarbons Malaysia 100% 1 Malaysia SDN.
