Notice of Annual General Meeting This notice is important and requires your immediate b an aggregate nominal amount of 4,216,478.62, attention.
If you are in any doubt about the action you in the form of equity securities within the should take, you should immediately consult your meaning of section 560 1 of the Companies stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or Act 2006 in connection with an offer or issue by other independent financial adviser duly authorised way of rights, open for acceptance for a period under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. fixed by the directors, to holders of ordinary shares other than the Company on the register The 2014 Annual General Meeting of Enterprise Inns on any record date fixed by the directors in plc the Company will be held at the offices of proportion as nearly as may be to the respective the Company, 3 Monkspath Hall Road, Solihull, West number of ordinary shares deemed to be held Midlands, B90 4SJ at 11.00 a. m. on 6 February 2014 for by them, subject to such exclusions or other the following purposes: arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional Ordinary Resolutions entitlements, legal or practical problems arising To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following in any overseas territory, the requirements of any resolutions, which will be proposed as ordinary regulatory body or stock exchange or any other resolutions: matter whatsoever, 1.
To receive the directors report and the audited such authority to expire unless renewed, varied or accounts for the year ended 30 September 2013 and revoked by the Company in general meeting on the the auditors report on the accounts.
earlier of fifteen months from the date this resolution is passed and the conclusion of the Annual General 2.
To approve the directors remuneration report for the Meeting of the Company to be held in 2015, except that year ended 30 September 2013 other than the part the Company may before such expiry make any offer containing the directors remuneration policy.
or agreement which would or might require relevant 3.
To approve the directors remuneration policy securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors contained in the directors remuneration report for may allot relevant securities pursuant to any such offer or the year ended 30 September 2013. agreement as if such authority had not expired.
To re-elect Robert Walker as a director.
To re-elect Simon Townsend as a director.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions, which will be proposed as special resolutions: 6.
To re-elect Neil Smith as a director.
To empower the directors pursuant to section 570 7.
To re-elect David Maloney as a director.
of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities 8.
To re-appoint Peter Baguley as a director.
as defined in section 560 1 of that Act for cash pursuant to the general authority conferred on them 9.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the by resolution 11 above and or to sell equity securities Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the held as treasury shares for cash pursuant to section next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
727 of that Act, in each case as if section 561 1 of 10.
To authorise the directors to determine Ernst & Young that Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, LLPs remuneration as auditors of the Company.
provided that this power shall be limited to: 11.
To authorise the directors generally and unconditionally a any such allotment and or sale of equity securities pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to in connection with an offer or issue by way of exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares rights or other pre-emptive offer or issue, open in the Company and grant rights to subscribe for or for acceptance for a period fixed by the directors, to convert any security into shares in the Company to holders of ordinary shares other than the together relevant securities up to an aggregate Company on the register on any record date nominal amount of 8,432,957.24 comprising: fixed by the directors in proportion as nearly as may be to the respective number of ordinary a an aggregate nominal amount of 4,216,478.62 shares deemed to be held by them, subject to whether in connection with the same offer or such exclusions or other arrangements as the issue as under b below or otherwise : and directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements, legal or practical problems arising in any overseas territory, the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter whatsoever: and Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 119 for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:19 PM Proof 5 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 119 10 12 2013 14:20:21 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Notice of Annual General Meeting b any such allotment and or sale, otherwise c pays a price per share that is not more excluding than pursuant to paragraph a above, of equity expenses per ordinary share than the higher of: securities having an aggregate nominal amount i 5% above the average of the middle market or, in the case of other equity securities, giving quotations for the ordinary shares as derived from the right to subscribe for or convert into relevant the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for shares having an aggregate nominal amount, not the five business days immediately before the exceeding the sum of 694,971.78. day on which it purchases that share: and ii the price stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back This authority shall expire, unless previously revoked and Stabilisation Regulation EC 2273 2003. or renewed by the Company in general meeting, at such time as the general authority conferred on the This authority shall expire fifteen months after the directors by resolution 11 above expires, except that date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, the Company may at any time before such expiry at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting make any offer or agreement which would or might of the Company to be held in 2015, except that the require equity securities to be allotted or equity Company may, if it agrees to purchase ordinary shares securities held as treasury shares to be sold after such under this authority before it expires, complete the expiry and the directors may allot equity securities purchase wholly or partly after this authority expires.
and or sell equity securities held as treasury shares 14.
To authorise the directors to call a general meeting of in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the the Company, other than an Annual General Meeting, power conferred by this resolution had not expired.
on not less than 14 clear days notice.
To authorise the Company generally and The directors believe that the proposals in resolutions unconditionally to make market purchases as defined 1 to 14 are in the best interests of shareholders as in section 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of its a whole and they unanimously recommend that you ordinary shares of 2 pence each provided that in vote in favour of all the resolutions.
doing so it: a purchases no more than 75,846,017 ordinary shares of 2 pence each in aggregate: On behalf of the board b pays not less than 2 pence excluding expenses L T ogher per ordinary share of 2 pence each: and Company Secretary 9 December 2013 Registered office: 3 Monkspath Hall Road Solihull West Midlands B90 4SJ Registered in England and Wales No.
2562808 120 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report enterpriseinns.
com Stock code: ETI for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:19 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such Notes instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction as 1.
A member who is an individual is entitled to attend, described in paragraph 11 below will not prevent a speak and vote at the meeting or to appoint one or shareholder attending the Annual General Meeting more other persons as his proxy to exercise all or any and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
of his rights on his behalf.
Further details of how to 5.
In the case of joint holders, where more than one of appoint a proxy, and the rights of proxies, are given in the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the the paragraphs below.
A member that is a company appointment submitted by the most senior holder will can appoint one or more corporate representatives be accepted.
Seniority is determined by the order in such as a director or employee of the company which the names of the joint holders appear in the whose attendance at the meeting is treated as Companys register of members in respect of the if the company were attending in person, or it can joint holding the first-named being the most senior.
appoint one or more persons as its proxy to exercise all or any of its rights on its behalf.
Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is person attending the meeting will need to provide the a person nominated under section 146 of the Company or its registrars, Computershare Investor Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Services PLC, with evidence of their identity and, if Nominated Person may, under an agreement applicable, their appointment as a proxy or corporate between him her and the shareholder by whom he representative with authority to vote on behalf of a she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or member.
to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as attached to a different share or shares held by that to the exercise of voting rights.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
To appoint a proxy or proxies, 7.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation shareholders must complete: a a form of proxy, sign to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1, 2 and it and return it, together with the power of attorney 3 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The or other authority if any under which it is signed, rights described in these paragraphs can only be or a notarially certified copy of such authority, to exercised by shareholders of the Company.
the Companys registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, 8.
Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company gives BS99 6ZY: or b a CREST Proxy Instruction as set out in paragraph 11 below : or c an online proxy notice that only those shareholders included in the register of members of the Company at 6.00 p. m. on appointment at www.
com you will need to enter the Control Number, together with 4 February 2014 or, if the meeting is adjourned, in the register of members at 6.00 p. m. on the day which your unique PIN and Shareholder Reference Number printed on your personalised form of proxy, in each is two days before the day of any adjourned meeting, will be entitled to attend and to vote at the Annual case so that it is received no later than 11.00 a. m. on 4 February 2014.
To appoint more than one proxy, General Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their names at that time.
Changes you will need to complete a separate proxy form in relation to each appointment.
A personalised form of to entries on the share register after 6.00 p. m. on 4 February 2014, or, if the meeting is adjourned, in proxy for use in connection with the Annual General Meeting is enclosed with this document.
If you do the register of members at 6.00 p. m. on the day which is two days before the day of any adjourned not have a personalised form of proxy and believe that you should, please contact the Companys registrars, meeting, will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Annual Computershare Investor Services PLC, on 0870 889 4080 or at Computershare Investor Services PLC, General Meeting.
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZY.
As at 9.00 a. m. on 9 December 2013, the Companys issued share capital comprised 555,977,435 ordinary 3.
You will need to state clearly on each proxy form the number of shares in relation to which the proxy is shares of 2 pence each.
Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at a general meeting of the appointed.
A failure to specify the number of shares each proxy appointment relates to, or specifying Company and, therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company as at 9.00 a. m. on 9 December a number of shares in excess of those held by the member, will result in the proxy appointment being 2013 is 555,977,435. invalid.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 121 for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:19 PM Proof 5 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 121 10 12 2013 14:20:21 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Notice of Annual General Meeting 10.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy 13.
Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy members meeting the threshold requirements appointment service may do so for the Annual General set out in that section have the right to require Meeting and any adjournment s of the meeting by the Company to publish on a website a statement using the procedures described in the CREST Manual setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the available via www.
CREST Companys accounts including the auditors report personal members or other CREST sponsored and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before members, and those CREST members who have the Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstance appointed a service provider s, should refer to their connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will to hold office since the previous meeting at which be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made The Company may not require the shareholders using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate requesting any such website publication to pay its CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of must be properly authenticated in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, required to place a statement on a website under and must contain the information required for such section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The forward the statement to the Companys auditor not message, regardless of whether it constitutes the later than the time when it makes the statement appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the available on the website.
The business which may be instruction given to a previously appointed proxy dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be any statement that the Company has been required received by the Companys agent ID 3RA50, by the under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to latest time for receipt of proxy appointments set out publish on a website.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined 14.
Any member attending the meeting has the right by the timestamp applied to the message by the to ask questions.
The Company must answer any CREST Applications Host from which the Companys such question relating to the business being dealt agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to with at the meeting but no such answer need be CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this given if: a to do so would interfere unduly with the time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure through CREST should be communicated to the of confidential information: b the answer has already appointee through other means.
been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the 12.
CREST members and, where applicable, their Company or the good order of the meeting that the CREST sponsors or voting service providers, should question be answered.
note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for 15.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your any particular messages.
Normal system timings ordinary shares in the Company, please forward and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to this annual report and accounts to the purchaser or the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or other person responsibility of the CREST member concerned to through whom the sale or transfer was effected for take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
member, or sponsored member, or has appointed 16.
The service agreements of the executive directors any voting service provider s, to procure that his and copies of the letters of appointment of the nonCREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s executive directors are available for inspection during such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a normal business hours on any weekday excluding message is transmitted by means of the CREST Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays at the system by any particular time.
In this connection, registered office of the Company and will be available CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST for inspection for fifteen minutes prior to and during sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in the Annual General Meeting.
particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system 17.
You may not use any electronic address provided in and timings.
this Notice, or any related documents including the proxy form, to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
A copy of this Notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.
122 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report enterpriseinns.
indd 122 10 12 2013 14:20:21 Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting The notice of the Annual General Meeting of the stand for re-election.
Biographical information for the Company to be held on 6 February 2014 is set out on directors is shown on page 34 of the annual report and pages 119 to 122 of the annual report and accounts.
Details of why the Board believes that the The following notes provide an explanation as to why relevant directors should be re-elected are included in the resolutions set out in the notice are to be put to the corporate governance report in the annual report and shareholders.
Resolutions 1 to 11 are ordinary resolutions.
These Resolution 8 Director appointed since resolutions will be passed if more than 50% of the the last Annual General Meeting votes cast for or against are in favour.
The Companys articles of association require that directors Resolution 1 Laying of accounts appointed by the Board must seek re-appointment at the next following AGM.
Accordingly, Peter Baguley is retiring The directors are required by the Companies Act 2006 to and is seeking re-appointment.
Biographical information present to the shareholders of the Company at a general for Peter Baguley is shown on page 34 of the annual report meeting the reports of the directors and auditors, and and accounts.
Details of why the Board believes he should the audited accounts of the Company, for the year ended be re-appointed are included in the corporate governance 30 September 2013.
The report of the directors and the report in the annual report and accounts, starting at audited accounts have been approved by the directors, page 35. and the report of the auditors has been approved by the auditors, and a copy of each of these documents may Resolution 9 Auditors re-appointment be found in the annual report and accounts, starting at page 02.
The Companies Act 2006 requires that auditors be appointed at each general meeting at which accounts Resolutions 2 and 3 Directors are laid, to hold office until the next such meeting.
remuneration report and directors The resolution seeks shareholder approval for the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP.
The Audit Committee remuneration policy keeps under review the independence and objectivity of Following changes to the Companies Act 2006 which took the external auditors, further information on which can be effect on 1 October 2013, the directors remuneration found in the annual report and accounts on page 41.
After report is now divided into two parts: an annual statement, considering relevant information, the Audit Committee which is shown on page 45 of the annual report and recommended to the Board of directors that Ernst & accounts, and an annual report on remuneration, which Young LLP be re-appointed.
starts at page 51 of the annual report and accounts together the annual remuneration report, and the Resolution 10 Auditors remuneration directors remuneration policy the remuneration This resolution gives the directors the authority to policy, which starts at page 45 of the annual report determine the remuneration of the auditors for the audit and accounts.
work to be carried out by them in the next financial year.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to seek The amount of the remuneration paid to the auditors for shareholder approval of the annual remuneration report the next financial year will be disclosed in the next audited on an annual basis.
This is sought in resolution 2. accounts of the Company.
The Companies Act 2006 also requires the Company to Resolution 11 Authority to the directors seek shareholder approval of the remuneration policy at to allot shares its first AGM after the coming into effect of the relevant changes to the Companies Act 2006.
This is a binding The Companies Act 2006 provides that the directors may policy and, after it takes effect, the directors will not be only allot shares if authorised by shareholders to do so.
entitled to remuneration unless such remuneration is Resolution 11 will, if passed, authorise the directors to consistent with the approved policy from time to time allot shares and to grant rights to subscribe for, or convert or shareholders otherwise approve the remuneration.
securities into, shares up to a maximum nominal amount Approval of the policy is sought in resolution 3 and, if of 8,432,957.24, which represents an amount which is approved, the policy will take effect from the end of the approximately equal to two-thirds of the issued ordinary AGM.
The Company is then required to seek shareholder share capital of the Company as at 9 December 2013 approval of a remuneration policy at least every three excluding treasury shares, the latest practicable date years.
prior to the publication of the notice.
The Company did not issue any shares during the period under review but, Resolutions 4, 5, 6 and 7 Re-election pursuant to the terms of convertible bonds issued by a of directors wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, agreed to issue up to 50.8 million shares on conversion of the bonds.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the directors of the Company other than Ted Tuppen and Susan Murray who are retiring will Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 123 for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:19 PM Proof 5 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 123 10 12 2013 14:20:22 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting As provided in paragraph a of the resolution, up to half Resolution 13 Purchase of own shares of this authority equal to one-third of the issued ordinary by the Company share capital of the Company will enable directors to allot and issue new shares in whatever manner subject to preIf passed, this resolution will grant the Company emption rights they see fit.
Paragraph b of the resolution authority for a period of up to fifteen months after the provides that the remainder of the authority equal to a date of passing of the resolution to buy its own shares further one-third of the issued ordinary share capital of the in the market.
The resolution limits the number of shares Company may only be used in connection with a rights that may be purchased to 14.99% of the Companys issue in favour of ordinary shareholders.
As paragraph a issued share capital excluding treasury shares as at imposes no restrictions on the way the authority may be 9 December 2013, the latest practicable date prior to the exercised, it could be used in conjunction with paragraph publication of the notice.
The price per ordinary share b so as to enable the whole two-thirds authority to be that the Company may pay is set at a minimum amount used in connection with a rights issue.
excluding expenses of 2 pence per ordinary share and a maximum amount excluding expenses of the higher The authority will expire at the earlier of the date that of: i 5% over the average of the previous five business is fifteen months after the date of the passing of the days middle market prices: and ii the higher of the price resolution and the conclusion of the next Annual General of the last independent trade and the highest current Meeting of the Company.
independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase Passing resolution 11 will ensure that the directors is carried out.
This authority will only be exercised if market conditions make it advantageous to do so.
continue to have the flexibility to act in the best interests of shareholders, when opportunities arise, by issuing new The directors present intention is that shares purchased shares.
There are no current plans to issue new shares pursuant to this authority will be cancelled immediately except in connection with employee share schemes and on purchase.
Alternatively, the shares may be held on conversion of the bonds.
in treasury, sold for cash or provided Listing Rule requirements are met transferred to an employee share As at 9 December 2013, the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the notice, the Company had scheme.
The effect of any cancellation would be to reduce the number of shares in issue.
For most purposes, while 555,977,435 ordinary shares of 2 pence each in issue and held 50,000,000 treasury shares, which is equal to held in treasury, shares are treated as if they have been cancelled for example, they carry no voting rights and approximately 9.88% of the issued share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at that date.
do not rank for dividends.
The directors will only make purchases under this authority if they believe that to do so Resolutions 12, 13 and 14 are special resolutions.
would result in increased earnings per share and would These resolutions will be passed if not less than 75% be in the interests of the shareholders generally.
of the votes cast for and against are in favour.
As at 9 December 2013, the latest practicable date prior Resolution 12 Partial disapplication of to the publication of the notice, options were outstanding over 26,689,503 ordinary shares of 2 pence each in statutory pre-emption rights the Company, representing approximately 5.27% of the The Companies Act 2006 requires that, if the Company issued share capital of the Company excluding treasury issues new shares for cash or sells any treasury shares, shares at that date.
If the proposed market purchase it must first offer them to existing shareholders in authority were used in full, shares over which options proportion to their current holdings.
It is proposed that were outstanding would, as at that date, represent the directors be authorised to issue shares for cash and approximately 6.20% of the Companys issued share or sell shares from treasury up to an aggregate nominal capital excluding treasury shares.
amount of 694,971.78 representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as Resolution 14 Approving the notice at 9 December 2013, the latest practicable date prior to period for General Meetings the publication of the notice without offering them to shareholders first in order to raise a limited amount of In order to maintain its ability to call general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days capital easily and quickly if needed.
The resolution also modifies statutory pre-emption rights to deal with legal, notice, the Company must offer all shareholders the ability to appoint a proxy electronically via the website of the regulatory or practical problems that may arise on a rights or other pre-emptive offer or issue.
For example, Company or its registrars and must obtain the approval of its shareholders by means of a special resolution the Company having to offer shares to shareholders in certain jurisdictions can result in significant compliance passed each year.
It is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed at obligations and compliance with such obligations may be time consuming and costly.
If resolution 12 is passed, this future Annual General Meetings.
authority will expire at the same time as the authority to allot shares given pursuant to resolution 11.
The directors consider this authority necessary in order to give them flexibility to deal with opportunities as they arise, subject to the restrictions contained in the resolution.
124 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report enterpriseinns.
indd 124 10 12 2013 14:20:22 Award Winners Pub Name Awarding body Award name Alford Arms Frithsden The Good Pub Guide County Dining Awards 2014 Dining Pub of the Year - Hertfordshire Alford Arms Frithsden, Royal Oak The Good Pub Guide Awards 2014 Pub Group of the Year Marlow Anchor Inn Wingham The BT Sport Great British Pub Awards 2013 National Champion: Best Newcomer Barrels Hereford CAMRA Top 150 Local Real Ale Pubs 2013 Bay Horse Hurworth On Tees Michelin Guide 2014 Bib Gourmand retained Be At One Kings Cross The Publican Awards 2013 Best Business Initiative Bell & Cross Clent The Good Pub Guide County Dining Awards 2014 Dining Pub of the Year - Worcestershire Branksome Railway Hotel Poole CAMRA Top 150 Local Real Ale Pubs 2013 Brickmakers Norwich The BT Sport Great British Pub Awards 2013 Regional Winner: Best Entertainment Pub Butchers Arms Hepworth Budweiser Budvar Top 50 Gastropub Awards 2013 No.
44 ranking Canton London Budweiser Budvar Top 50 Gastropub Awards 201 No.
16 ranking Michelin Guide 2014 Bib Gourmand retained Commercial Pudsey CAMRA Leeds Most Improved Pub of the Winter Season Crab & Lobster Bembridge The Good Pub Guide County Dining Awards 2014 Dining Pub of the Year - Isle of Wight Crown Inn Heather The Shires Magazine Award of Excellence for Pub of the Year for the National Forest Eagle Chatham Road Battersea CAMRA Top 150 Local Real Ale Pubs 2013 Farmhouse Horley Britvic Community Pub Project Finalist Fox & Grapes Wimbledon Michelin Guide 2014 Bib Gourmand retained George Payne Hove The BT Sport Great British Pub Awards 2013 National Champion: Best Turnaround Pub Golden Mile Inn Bridgend TripAdvisor Certificate of Excellence 2013 Grafton Kentish Town Kentishowner Reader Awards Best New Opening 2012 The BT Sport Great British Pub Awards 2013 Regional Winner: Best Entertainment Pub Granville Arms Barford Warwickshire Life and Worcestershire Life Food & Pub of the Year Drink Awards 2012 Hales Bar Harrogate Harrogates Hospitality & Tourism Awards 2013 Shortlisted: Bar Person of the Year: Team of the Year Happy Man Englefield Green CAMRA Top 150 Local Real Ale Pubs 2013 Hare Linslade The Independent on Sunday Happy List 2013 Harwood Arms Fulham Budweiser Budvar Top 50 Gastropub Awards 2013 No.
5 ranking Michelin Guide 2014 One star retained Haunch Of Venison Salisbury The South Wilts Business of the Year Awards 2013 Finalist: Tourism Award The BT Sport Great British Pub Awards 2013 Regional Winner: Best Managed Pub Kingfisher Ipswich Best Bar None Ipswich Best Family Friendly Pub: Ipswich Best Community Venue Lord Binning Kelsall The BT Sport Great British Pub Awards 2013 Regional Winner: Best Community Pub Mall Tavern Kensington Budweiser Budvar Top 50 Gastropub Awards 2013 No.
24 ranking Mark Cross Crowborough, Friday The Publican Awards 2013 Highly commended: Best Food Offer Street Farm Eastbourne 2-50 sites Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 125 for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:19 PM Proof 5 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 125 10 12 2013 14:20:22 Award Winners Pub Name Awarding body Award name Market House Inn Cullompton The BT Sport Great British Pub Awards 2013 Regional Winner - Highly Commended: Best Partnership Pub Maypole Thurloxton The BT Sport Great British Pub Awards 2013 National Champion: Best Community Pub Monkton Inn West Monkton Somerset College Apprentice Awards Best New Business No 5 Bridge Street Winchester The BT Sport Great British Pub Awards 2013 Regional Winner: Best Wine Pub Papermakers Arms Sevenoaks TripAdvisor Certificate of Excellence 2013 Parkers Arms Newton The Craft Guild of Chefs Awards 2013 Pub Restaurant Chef Award Plough Longparish Budweiser Budvar Top 50 Gastropub Awards 2013 No.
26 ranking Budweiser Budvar Top 50 Gastropub Awards 2013 Special category: Gastropub Chef of the Year Michelin Guide 2014 Bib Gourmand retained Potting Shed Crudwell The Good Pub Guide County Dining Awards 2014 Dining Pub of the Year - Wiltshire Princess Of Shoreditch Hoxton Michelin Guide 2014 Bib Gourmand retained Red House Caverswall This is Staffordshire Favourite Pub Food Venue Ring O Bells Inn Thornton Bradford Means Business Awards 2013 Retail Leisure or Hospitality Business of the Year Rising Sun Stanford-Le-Hope CAMRA Top 150 Local Real Ale Pubs 2013 Robin Hood Aughton CAMRA Runner-up: Rotherham Pub of the Year Royal Oak Marlow The Good Pub Guide County Dining Awards 2014 Dining Pub of the Year - Buckinghamshire Royal Oak Winsford TripAdvisor Certificate of Excellence 2013 So Knaresborough The National Pub Food Challenge 2013 Best Sandwich Offer Sportsman Mogador BII Licensee of the Year 2013 Finalist Tap And Spile Framwellgate CAMRA Top 150 Local Real Ale Pubs 2013 Moor Three Hats Milton CAMRA Top 150 Local Real Ale Pubs 2013 Three Tuns Bransgore Coastline Best of the Best Awards 2013 Best Public House Three Tuns Romsey Michelin Guide 2014 Bib Gourmand retained Tolcarne Inn Newlyn Inside Cornwall Restaurant Guide 2013 West Cornwall listing Michelin Guide 2014 Bib Gourmand awarded Victoria East Sheen Hardens London Restaurant Guide 2013 2nd Best Modern British Restaurant under 50 Waggon & Horses Hartley CAMRA Top 150 Local Real Ale Pubs 2013 Wintney Walrus Social Southwark HostelBookers Awards for Excellence 2013 One of Top Three Acccommodations in the Best Staff category for Western Europe Wheatsheaf & Pigeon Staines The 2013 Best Thames Local Runner-up White Hart Eltham The National Diversity Awards 2013 Nominated: Community Organisation Award Windmill Hollingbourne The Good Pub Guide County Dining Awards 2014 Dining Pub of the Year - Kent Ye Olde Sun St Neots CAMRA Top 150 Local Real Ale Pubs 2013 126 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report enterpriseinns.
indd 126 10 12 2013 14:20:22 Community Hero Award Winners the Arion the Bell Inn Southport Welford On Avon the Foresters Arms the Sweet Olive At the Chequers Coatham Mundeville Aston Tirrold the Beggar & gentleman the Quebec Hoyland Norwich the talbot the Britannia Inn the three Crowns Warsop Bushey Budleigh Salterton the Marple tavern the Rose In June the Waggon At Hale Marple Portsmouth Chatham the Plough Inn the lord Nelson the Rock Inn Wellington Brighton Luddenden the Chequers the lion Hotel the Swan Potters Bar West Wickham Treorchy the Swan Inn Thornbury 127 23069.04 9 December 2013 3:29 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6. indd 6 09 12 2013 17:26:43 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Enterprise Inns plc 3 Monkspath Hall Road Solihull West Midlands B90 4SJ Printed on FSC certified material, sourced from well Tel: 44 0 121 733 7700 managed and sustainable forests.
Fax: 44 0 121 733 6447 All process waste is reused and recycled wherever possible, in full compliance with current legislation.
