Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 83 Annual Report and accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Presentation of financial statements 1.1 Corporate information Essar Energy plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom UK under the Companies Act.
The address of the registered office is 2nd Floor, Lansdowne House, Berkeley Square, London, W1J 6ER and its head office is 10, Frre Flix Valois Street, Port Louis, Mauritius.
The Company was incorporated in the UK on 18 December 2009 as a wholly owned subsidiary of Essar Global Fund Limited EGFL or Parent Company formerly known as Essar Global Limited.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in joint ventures and associates.
The Indian Income Tax Act requires Indian companies to file their annual financial statements and returns based on the year ended31 March.
All Indian companies within the Group prepare their accounts on this basis.
To ensure that all accounting periodsare aligned within the Group, the Company decided to also move its year end from 31 December to 31 March, effective from 31 March 2012.
Accordingly, comparative figures are for 15 months ended 31 March 2012 and hence not comparable.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in Note 30.
1.2 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements presented in this report have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with article 4 of the EU IAS regulations.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale assets and financial assets and liabilities.
EGFL remains the ultimate Parent Company of the Group and its controlling party.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review.
The Business Review also includes a summary of the Groups financial position, its cash flows and borrowing facilities.
1.3 Going concern The Group monitors and manages closely its liquidity risk.
In assessing the Groups going concern status, the Directors have taken account of the financial position of the Group, anticipated future trading performance, its bank and other facilities, its capital investment plans, forecast of gross refining margins and the likelihood of any material adverse legal judgements.
The Group has prepared detailed annual business plans and forecasts covering the period to 30 June 2014.
These business plans and forecasts were used as the basis for assessing the Groups cash headroom and compliance with banking covenants.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group is dependent on the availability of existing loan facilities together with new facilities and arrangements which are being negotiated but have not yet been committed.
As further set out in the capital and liquidity section of the financial review, the Group is progressing well in establishing loan facilities, including refinancing facilities and other arrangements with a variety of lenders and financial institutions to ensure that theGroup has adequate liquidity to meet its liabilities as they fall due and to improve the Groups liquidity position significantly.
In addition, whilst breaches of certain covenants in some debt facilities have occurred both during the financial year to 31 March 2013 and subsequently, no loans have been recalled and the Group has continued to cure such breaches and obtain waivers from the financial institutions.
The facilities under discussion far exceed the Groups current financing needs.
Further, in respect of several of these facilities, which would meet the Groups forecast needs, the Group has secured written confirmation from the proposed lenders that such lender is confident that the relevant facility will be made available.
However, until these facilities are committed, there is a risk that they may not ultimately be available.
The Directors have examined all available evidence and have concluded that in light of the supportive nature of the relationships held with the lenders and financial institutions, the assurances received from the lenders and the current stage of negotiations, the Directors are satisfied that adequate financial resources will continue to be made available to the Group and Company so as to enable it to continue to trade on a going concern basis.
As a result, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Group and Companys financial statements.
1.4 Adoption of new and revised standards In the current year, the following new and revised standards and interpretations have been adopted by the Group, none of which had a material impact on the current or prior year reported results and the financial position: `` Amendment to IFRS 1 Limited Exemption from Comparative IFRS 7 Disclosures for First-time Adopters: `` IAS 24 2009 Related Party Disclosures: `` Amendment to IAS 32 Classification of Rights Issues: `` Amendments to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement: `` IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments: `` IFRIC 18 Transfer of Assets from Customers: and `` Improvements to IFRSs 2010.
Essar Energy plc 84 Financial statements Annual Report and accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Presentation of financial statements continued 1.5 Standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards that are not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : `` IFRS 1 amended Amendments to Government Loans: `` IFRS 7 amended Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities: `` IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: `` IFRS 9 amended Mandatory Effective Date of IFRS 9 and Transition Disclosures: `` IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements: `` IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements: `` IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities: `` IFRS 10, 11 & 12 Transition Guidance: amended `` IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement: `` IAS 1 amended Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income: `` IAS 19 revised Employee Benefits: `` IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements: `` IAS 28 revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures: `` IAS 32 amended Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities: `` IAS 36 amended Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets: and `` IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine.
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods, except as follows: `` IFRS 7 amended will increase the disclosure requirements where netting arrangements are in place for financial assets and financial liabilities: `` IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and disclosures of Financial Instruments: `` IFRS 12 will impact the disclosure of interests the Group has in other entities: and `` IFRS 13 will impact the measurement of fair value for certain assets and liabilities as well as the associated disclosures.
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a detailed review has been completed.
Accounting policies and estimates 2.1 Significant accounting policies 2.1.
1 Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses from third parties are accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of acquisition is measured at the aggregate value of the identifiable assets, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus cost directly attributable to the acquisition, except for a business combination under common control which is described below.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 revised 2008 Business Combinations are recognised at their fair value at the date of acquisition, except for non-current assets that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets held for sale and discontinued operations which are recognised at fair value less costs to sell.
Where it is not possible to complete the determination of fair values by the date on which the first post-acquisition financial statements are approved, a provisional assessment of fair values is made and any adjustments required to those provisional fair values, and the corresponding adjustments to purchased goodwill, are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the purchase consideration over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
If, however, the fair values of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of acquisition, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Goodwill is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill that is recognised as an asset and is initially measured at cost, is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
Internally generated goodwill is not recognised.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the non-controlling shareholders proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised and subsequently also includes the non-controlling shareholders proportion of changes in equity since the date of combination.
The Group follows the entity concept method of accounting for changes in ownership interest in subsidiaries.
In the event of a purchase of a minority shareholders interest where the Group holds the majority of shares of a subsidiary, any excess over the Groups share of net assets is recorded in retained earnings.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 85 Annual Report and accounts 2013 2.
Accounting policies and estimates continued 2.1.
2 Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or joint controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
For the purpose of impairment testing goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
3 Revenue recognition Revenue from the sale of petroleum products is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, net of trade discounts, volume rebates, value added tax, sales taxes and duties.
A sale is recognised when economic benefits associated with the sale are expected to flow to the Group and the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed and it can be reliably measured.
This is usually when title and insurance risk has passed to the customer.
Revenue from power supply is accounted for on the basis of billings to consumers or unbilled supply of power.
Generally all consumers are billed on the basis of recording of consumption of electricity by installed meters.
Sales of electricity are accounted for based on relevant tariff rates approved under the contract with the customer.
Revenue associated with sales tax deferral was recognised in accordance with the Groups policy for accounting for government grants set out in 2.1.
4 Sales tax incentives The Group received the benefit of certain sales tax incentives under the Capital Investment Incentive Premier Prestigious Units Scheme 19952000 the Sale Tax Incentive Scheme.
The benefits under the Sales Tax Incentive Scheme were recognised when it was reasonable to expect that the benefit will be received and that all related conditions will be met.
The benefit of a sales tax deferral with no associated interest outflow was recognised as a liability in accordance with the imputation rule under IAS 20 Accounting for Government grants and disclosure of Government Assistance.
This deferred liability was measured in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The benefit of the effective market rate of interest or no interest was measured as the difference between initial carrying value of the financial liability as determined in accordance with IAS 39 and the sales tax collected.
The Groups eligibility to participate in the Scheme was challenged by the State Government of Gujarat see Note 8a and on 17January 2012 the Honourable Supreme Court of India set aside the previous judgement of the High Court of Gujarat and ruled that the Group could not participate in the scheme.
The Group continued to apply the accounting policy in respect of the sales taxbenefit up to 31 December 2011 as the revenue was earned.
The loss of the benefit as a result of the Honourable Supreme Courtjudgement on 17 January 2012 was a change in estimate of revenue earned up to 31 December 2011.
The entire amount previously recognised to 31 December 2011 was adjusted in the period to 31 March 2012 against each individual line item through which the relevant benefit or associated costs were recognised.
5 Foreign currency transactions and translation Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity are measured using that functional currency.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are translated into functional currency at the exchange rates at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies are translated into functional currency at exchange rates at the reporting date and exchange differences are recognised in profit orloss.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars.
For the purposes of consolidation, the income statement itemsof those entities for which the US dollar is not the functional currency are translated into US dollars at the average rates of exchange during the year.
The related balance sheets are translated at the rates at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on translation are reported in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
Essar Energy plc 86 Financial statements Annual Report and accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies and estimates continued The rates used to translate the consolidated financial statements were as follows: 12 months 15 months ended ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 INR $ INR $ Opening rates 51.16 44.81 Average rates 54.44 47.40 Closing rates 54.39 51.16 2.1.
6 Derivative financial instruments In order to reduce its exposure to foreign exchange, commodity price and interest rate risk, the Group enters into forward, option and swap contracts.
The Group also enters into financial instruments to acquire non-controlling stakes of its subsidiaries to increase its stake.
Additionally the Group provides warrants over stakes held in certain subsidiaries.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
The Groups derivative arrangements have not previously been designated hedges under the definition of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Consequently, all fair value measurements in respect of derivative financial instruments were taken to the income statement.
During the year, the Group has designated some of its new derivative arrangements used to manage commodity price risk as cash flow hedges under IAS 39.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the entity documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged item.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised inother comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in theperiods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss, in the same line of the income statement as the recognised hedgeditem.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Any gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income at that time is accumulated in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is recognised immediately inprofit or loss.
7 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, if any.
The initial cost of an asset comprises its purchase price or construction cost, any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into operation, the initial estimate of the decommissioning obligation and, for qualifying assets, borrowing costs if the recognition criteria are met.
The cost of mining properties and leases, which include the cost of acquiring and developing mining properties and mineral rights, are capitalised as property, plant and equipment in the period in which such costs are incurred.
Costs directly related to construction, including costs and revenues arising from testing, specific financing costs and foreign exchange losses, are capitalised up to the point where the property, plant and equipment become operational.
Property, plant and equipment become operational once all testing and trial runs are complete and it is ready for use in the manner management intended.
Income from the sale of products as a result of testing and trial runs of a new asset are part of the directly attributable cost of assets and therefore deducted from the cost of the asset.
The purchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
The capitalised value of a finance lease is also included within property, plant and equipment.
Likewise, when a major inspection or major maintenance is undertaken, its cost is recognised in the carrying amount of the plant and equipment as a replacement if the recognition criteria are satisfied.
All other repairs and maintenance costs are recognised in the profit or loss as incurred.
Property, plant and equipment in the course of construction is carried at cost, less accumulated impairment losses, if any, and is not depreciated.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 87 Annual Report and accounts 2013 2.
Accounting policies and estimates continued An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is included in profit or loss in the year the asset is derecognised.
The assets residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each financialyear end.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment other than freehold land and properties under construction is calculated to write off the cost of the asset to its residual value using the straight line method or the written down value method or on a unit of production basis as appropriate, over its expected useful life.
Depreciation begins when the assets become ready for use.
Depreciation is calculated over the estimated useful lives of assets and on the basis of depreciation methods are as follows: Asset Depreciation method Expected useful life years Buildings Straight line 40 Plant and equipment Refinery India Straight line 2040 Refinery UK Straight line 1520 Power plant Straight line 1130 Related assets Straight line 1025 Producing properties Unit of production basis Mining properties Unit of production basis Office equipment and fixtures Straight line 320 Motor vehicles Written down value 911 Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of lease term and estimated useful life.
8 Impairment of non-financial assets The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment, including producing properties and leases, intangible asset excluding goodwill and investments in joint controlled entities are reviewed for impairment at each balance sheet date if events or changes incircumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
If there are indicators of impairment, an assessment is made to determine whether the assets carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount.
Whenever the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the carrying value of the asset or the cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount and impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but such that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
Areversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
9 Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly relating to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets are added to the costs of those assets during the construction phase on an effective interest basis, until such time as the assets are ready for their intended use or sale which, in the case of producing or mining properties, is when saleable material begins to be extracted from such properties.
Where surplus funds are available for a short-term out of money borrowed specifically to finance a qualified asset, the income generated from such short-term investments is deducted from capitalised borrowing costs.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
10 Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as assets of the Group at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are recognised in the income statement, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups policy on borrowing costs see above.
Essar Energy plc 88 Financial statements Annual Report and accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies and estimates continued Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term.
Payments made under operating leases, where the lessors effectively retain substantially all the risk and benefits of ownership of the lease property, plant and equipment are recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives received are recognised as an integral part of the total lease expense over the term of the lease.
Property, plant and equipment used by the Group under operating leases are not recognised in the Groups balance sheet.
11 Financial assets All financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where the purchase or sale of a financial asset is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the financial asset within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at fair value, plus transaction costs, except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through profit or loss, which are initially measured at fair value.
The Group classifies its financial assets into the following specified categories: at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss FVTPL, cash and cash equivalents, loans and receivables and Available-for-sale AFS financial assets.
The classification is dependent on the nature and purpose of the financial assets acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Further details on the Groups financial assets and fair value measurement are disclosed in Note 25.
Financial assets at FVTPL Financial assets at FVTPL include financial assets held for trading or designated upon initial recognition as at FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
Financial assets are classified as held for trading if: i acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near term: ii they are a part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking: or iii they are derivatives unless these are designated as effective hedging instruments.
A financial asset other than a financial asset held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: i such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise: ii the financial asset forms part of a Group of financial assets or financial liabilities, or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Groups documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the grouping is provided internally on that basis: or iii it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement permits the entire combined contract asset or liability to be designated as at FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on remeasurement recognised in profit or loss.
The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset and is included in the other gains and losses line item in the income statement.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in Note 25.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
After initial measurement loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any allowance for impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired as well as through the amortisation process.
AFS financial investments Listed shares held by the Group that are traded in an active market are classified as being AFS and are stated at fair value.
The Group invests in unlisted shares that are not traded in an active market but classified as AFS financial investments and stated at fair value because the Directors consider that fair value can be reliably measured.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated reserves with the exception of impairment losses, interest calculated using the effective interest method and foreign exchange gains and losses on monetary assets, which are recognised directly in profit or loss.
Where the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the investments revaluation reserve is reclassified to profit or loss.
Dividends on AFS equity instruments are recognised in profit or loss when the Groups right to receive the dividend is established.
The fair value of AFS monetary assets denominated in a foreign currency is determined in that foreign currency and translated at the spot rate at the balance sheet date.
The foreign exchange gains and losses that are recognised in profit or loss are determined based on the amortised cost of the monetary asset.
Other foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been affected.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 89 Annual Report and accounts 2013 2.
Accounting policies and estimates continued For financial assets carried at amortised cost the Group assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists for assets that are individually significant, or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant.
Objective evidence of impairment could include: i significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty: ii default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: or iii it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future expected credit losses that have not yet been incurred.
The present value of the estimated future cash flows is discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
If a loan has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment loss is the current effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
For AFS financial investments, the Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that an investment or a Group of investments is impaired.
In the case of equity investments classified as AFS, objective evidence for impairment would include a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment below its cost.
Where there is evidence of impairment, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that investment previously recognised in the income statement is removed from other comprehensive income and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses on equity investments are not reversed through the income statement: increases in their fair value after impairment are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
12 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities at FVTPL or other financial liabilities at initial recognition.
The Groups other financial liabilities include borrowings, trade and other payables and finance lease payables.
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings, include directly attributable transaction costs.
The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification as follows: Financial liabilities at FVTPL Financial liabilities at FVTPL include those held for trading and financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling in the near term.
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are recognised in the income statement.
Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilitiesare subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on aneffective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the amortisation process.
Financial guarantee contracts The Group provides certain guarantees in respect of the indebtedness of subsidiary undertakings, claims under contract and other arrangements in the ordinary course of business.
The Group evaluates each arrangement to determine whether it is an insurance or a financial guarantee contract.
Financial guarantee contract liabilities are measured initially at their fair values and, if not designated as at FVTPL, are subsequently measured at the higher of the amount of the obligation under the contract and the amount initially recognised less cumulative amortisation over period of guarantee is provided.
Once the arrangements are designated as insurance contracts, these are disclosed as contingent liabilities unless the obligations under guarantee become probable.
Derecognition of financial liabilities The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or expire.
13 Provisions and contingencies Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation, as a result of past events, and it is probable that an outflow of resources, that can reliably be estimated, will be required to settle such an obligation.
If the effect ofthetime value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows to net present value using an appropriate pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Unwinding of the discount is recognised in the income statement as a finance cost.
Provisions are reviewed at each balance sheet date and are adjusted to reflect the current best estimate.
Essar Energy plc 90 Financial statements Annual Report and accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies and estimates continued A contingent liability is disclosed where the existence of an obligation will only be confirmed by future events or where the amount of the obligation cannot be measured reliably.
Contingent assets are not recognised, but are disclosed where an inflow of economic benefits is probable.
In the normal course of business, contingent liabilities may arise from litigation and other claims against the Group.
14 Inventories Inventories other than crude oil extracted by the Exploration and Production segment are valued at lower of cost and net realisable value.
Crude oil extracted and in saleable condition is valued at net realisable value.
Cost is determined on the following bases: a Raw materials and consumables are determined at weighted average cost except crude oil for the refinery which is measured at first-in first-out basis.
b Finished products and work in progress are determined at direct material cost, labour cost and a proportion of manufacturing overheads based on normal or allocated capacity.
c Inventories held for trading purposes are determined at weighted average cost.
Net realisable value is determined by reference to estimated prices existing at the balance sheet date for inventories less all estimated costs of completion and costs necessary to make the sale.
15 Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, if any.
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over their useful lives and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that an intangible asset may be impaired.
The assets useful lives and methods of amortisation are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each financial year end.
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised.
Finite lived intangible assets which are subject to amortisation are amortised over their useful lives as mentioned below: Intangible asset Expected useful life years Software 35 Power sales contract 20 2.1.
16 Joint controlled entities A joint controlled entity is an entity in which the Group shares joint control over the strategic, financial and operating decisions with one or more ventures under a contractual arrangement.
Investment in joint controlled entities are accounted for using the equity method of accounting, except when the investment is classified as held for sale, which is recognised at fair value less costs to sell.
In accordance with the equity method, investments injoint controlled entities are measured at cost plus post acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of joint controlled entities, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Goodwill arising from the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised of the joint controlled entities is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
Any excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The income statement reflects share of results of operations of the joint controlled entities.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in equity of the joint controlled entities, the Group recognises its share of any changes, when applicable, in the statement of changes in equity.
Profits and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the joint controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant joint controlled entities.
17 Exploration and evaluation expenditure Exploration and evaluation activity involves the search for oil and gas resources, the determination of technical feasibility and the assessment of commercial viability of an identified resource.
Exploration and evaluation activity includes: a researching and analysing historical exploration data: b gathering exploration data through geological and geophysical studies: c exploratory and appraisal drilling: d evaluating and testing discoveries: e determining transportation and infrastructure requirements: and f conducting market and finance studies.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 91 Annual Report and accounts 2013 2.
Accounting policies and estimates continued Administration costs that are not directly attributable to a specific exploration area are charged to the profit and loss account.
Licence costs paid in connection with a right to explore an existing exploration area are capitalised.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure including amortisation of capitalised licence costs is charged to the profit and loss account as incurred except in the following circumstances: a the exploration and evaluation activity is related to an established discovery for which commercially recoverable reserves have already been established: or b at the balance sheet date, exploration and evaluation activity has not reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of commercially recoverable reserves.
Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure considered to be tangible is recorded as a component of property, plant andequipment at cost less impairment losses, if any.
All capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is monitored for indicators of impairment.
Where a potential impairment is indicated, an impairment test of the capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is performed for each area of interest in conjunction with the Group or pool of operating assets representing a cash-generating unit to which the exploration is attributed.
To the extent that capitalised expenditure is not expected to be recovered it is charged to the profit and loss account.
Exploration areas at which reserves have been discovered but that require major capital expenditure before production can begin are continually evaluated to ensure that commercial quantities of reserves exist or to ensure that additional exploration or evaluation work is underway or planned.
18 Development expenditure When commercially recoverable reserves are determined and development is sanctioned, the capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is transferred to assets under construction after impairment is assessed and any resulting impairment loss is recognised.
Expenditure on the construction, installation or completion of infrastructure facilities such as platforms, pipelines and the drilling of development wells are capitalised as assets under construction.
On completion of a development, all capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure together with the subsequent development expenditure transferred to producing properties are depreciated using unit of production method.
This is carried out with reference to quantities, with depletion computed on the basis of the ratio that oil and gas production bears to balance proved and probable reserves at commencement of the year.
19 Tax Tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax is provided on taxable income at amounts expected to be paid or recovered, using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided, using the balance sheet method, on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
In India, the current tax payable by a company is charged to the income statement in the applicable period at the corporate tax rate computed under the normal provisions of the Indian Income Tax Act or the minimum alternate tax MAT, whichever is higher.
Excess paid under MAT can be carried forward for up to 10 years as a credit against corporate income tax in the future.
Where the MAT credit satisfies the relevant criteria under IAS 12 Income Taxes, it is recognised as a deferred tax asset.
Deferred tax is recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: i where the deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting nor taxable profit or loss: and ii in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint controlled entities, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, unused tax credits carried forward and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and is adjusted to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset will be realised or the liability will be settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Current and deferred tax are recognised as an expense or income in the income statement, except when they relate to items credited or debited directly to equity, in which case the tax is also recognised directly in equity, or where they arise from the initial accounting for a business combination.
In the case of a business combination, the tax effect is taken into account in calculating goodwill or in determining the excess of the acquirers interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of the business combination.
Essar Energy plc 92 Financial statements Annual Report and accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies and estimates continued Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current taxassets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxauthority.
20 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand, short-term deposits with banks with original maturity of less than 90 days and short-term highly liquid investments, that are readily convertible into cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in the principal amount.
Bank overdrafts, which are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the operations, are included in cash and cash equivalents.
21 Retirement benefits The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes for its employees as well as post-employment benefit plans.
For defined contribution schemes the amount charged as expense is the contributions paid or payable when employees have rendered services entitling them to the contributions.
For defined benefit pension and post-employment benefit plans, full actuarial valuations are carried out every year end using the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains and losses arising during the year are recognised in profit and loss account.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested and otherwise is amortised on a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The employee benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as reduced by the fair value of the related plan assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Detailed disclosures are not provided within the financial statements as amounts associated with such schemes are not considered to be significant.
22 Share-based payments The cost of granting share options and other share-based remuneration is recognised in the income statement at their fair value atgrant date.
They are expensed straight-line over the vesting period, based on estimates of the shares or options that will eventually vest.
Charges are reversed if it appears that non-market performance will not be met.
Options are valued using the Black-Scholes model.
2.2 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the course of applying the policies set out in section 2.1 above, management have made estimations and assumptions that impact the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
Several of these estimates and judgements are related to matters that are inherently uncertain as they pertain to future events.
These estimates and judgements are evaluated at each reporting date and are based on historical experience, internal controls, advice from external experts and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The resulting accounting estimates may vary from the actual results.
The Group believes that in addition to assumptions related to going concern discussed in Note 1.3, the assumptions, judgements and estimations that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial period are the following areas: 2.2.
1 Credit risk on receivables As at 31 March 2013, various receivables including amounts from related parties were past due.
Subsequent to year end the majority of the related party receivables which were then due were received or appropriate support has been obtained to be confident that they will be received shortly.
However, some third party receivables remain overdue and a judgement has to be made about the appropriate level of provision.
Further, all receivables including dues from related parties will continue to be monitored closely to ensure appropriate provisioning, if required.
2 Contingencies and commitments In the normal course of business, contingent liabilities may arise from litigation and other claims against the Group.
Potential liabilities that have a low probability of crystallising or are very difficult to quantify reliably, are treated as contingent liabilities.
Such liabilities are disclosed in the notes but are not provided for in the consolidated financial statements.
There can be no assurance regarding the final outcome of these legal proceedings, but the Group does not expect them to have a materially adverse impact on its financial position or profitability.
For further details, refer to Note 28.
3 Depreciable lives The Groups relevant non-current assets are depreciable over their estimated useful lives as set out in section 2.1 above.
Such lives are dependent upon an assessment of both the technical lives of the assets and also their likely economic lives based on factors including commodity prices, alternative sources of supply, relative efficiency and operating costs.
Accordingly depreciable lives are reviewed annually using the best information available to management.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 93 Annual Report and accounts 2013 2.
Accounting policies and estimates continued 2.2.
4 Impairment testing Goodwill is tested for impairment annually.
Other non-current assets are tested for impairment when conditions suggest that there is a risk of impairment.
Where impairment testing is carried out, management uses the best information available to them to assess the likely cash flows available to the relevant asset.
Key assumptions are inherently uncertain and include commodity prices, anticipated production costs, likely asset lives, the timing of granting of licences and permits and the relevant discount rates, coal and gas availability and logistical challenges associated with coal transportation.
During the year, the Group commenced commercial sales from its 1200 MW Power Plant at Salaya, Gujarat under a Power Purchase Agreement the PPA with Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited GUVNL for 1000 MW capacity based on a substantially fixed tariff for 25 years.
The carrying value of the plant at 31 March 2013 was US$927.0 million 2012: US$1,004.0 million.
The coal for Salaya will be sourced from the wholly owned Aries coal mine in Indonesia in the longer term once the mine is operating, which is expected in one year, with alternative supplies of coal sourced in the interim period.
An increase in coal prices and a change in the Indonesian laws impacting coal export prices have triggered an impairment review in the period.
A number of key assumptions have been made in the impairment review including the discount rate, the economic life of the asset, the assumed plant load factor, the merchant electricity price and other cost inputs including the cost of coal.
It is assumed that the plant will continue to operate beyond the PPA term on a merchant basis, for a period of up to 35 years with higher returns arising from forecast coal and power price assumptions, over this period of time.
A change in one or more of these assumptions in a subsequent period may result in a material difference to the estimated value in use increasing the risk of impairment.
As a result of the unforeseen increase in coal prices, the Group has filed a tariff revision plea with GUVNL, seeking an increase in the tariff.
In view of recent pronouncements by the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission in the case of other industry power producers impacted under similar circumstances, management is confident of obtaining a revision in the tariff in the near term to compensate for the cost increase.
Management has therefore concluded that no impairment currently needs to be recognised with respect to the carrying value of the plant.
In view of the inherent uncertainty in the underlying assumptions mentioned above about future events, including the ability to achieve a tariff increase, the position will be monitored closely in the future to assess changes in the estimated value in use of the plant.
5 Tax The Group is subject to tax, principally within India.
The amount of tax payable in respect of any period is dependent upon the interpretation of the relevant tax rules.
Whilst an assessment must be made of the deferred tax position of each entity within the Group, these matters are inherently uncertain until the position of each entity is agreed with the relevant tax authorities.
6 Exploration and evaluation expenditure Exploration and evaluation expenditure are capitalised in accordance with the accounting policy in Note 2.1.
In making a decision about whether to continue to capitalise exploration and evaluation expenditures, it is necessary to make judgements about the satisfaction of, if a proved reserves are booked or b i if they have found commercially producible quantities of reserves and ii if they are subject to further exploration or appraisal activity in that either drilling of additional exploratory wells is underway or firmly planned for the near future or other activities are being undertaken to sufficiently progress the assessing of reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project.
If there is a change in one of these judgements in a subsequent period, then the related capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditures would be expensed in that period resulting in a charge to income.
7 Revenue A sale is usually recognised when title and insurance risk has passed to the customer, typically when they receive delivery of theproduct.
However, due to the differing factors in individual arrangements, each non-standard transaction is assessed by management to conclude on the appropriate timing to recognise revenue.
This may be subsequent to legal title passing.
8 Recognition of inventory The timing of when the Company recognises inventory on its balance sheet contains a degree of judgement as the majority of crude oil in Oil UK is supplied by a just-in-time supplier which holds significant levels of inventory on site at the refinery in tanks that it leases from the Group.
Management performs a detailed review of these just-in-time arrangements at inception, encompassing both legal and substantive aspects, and concluded that the inventory should be recorded on the Groups balance sheet at the point at which it is drawn down from the tanks into the refinery.
Management monitor any changes to the legal and substantive aspects of the arrangement to ensure that this recognition point continues to be appropriate going forward.
Essar Energy plc 94 Financial statements Annual Report and accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Segment information Information reported to the Board for the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of performance is primarily determined by the nature of the different activities that the Group engages in, rather than the geographical location of these operations.
This is reflected by the Groups organisational structure and internal financial reporting systems.
The profitability of the segments is reviewed based on profit or loss after tax and is based on IFRS.
The Group has the following reportable operating segments: i R&M India Refinery and Marketing India and others : The Group owns a petroleum refinery on the west coast of India, together with a 50% interest in a petroleum refinery in Kenya, and oil retailing stations on franchise across India.
Its main products are high speed diesel, motor spirit, fuel oil and superior kerosene oil.
The activities of Refining and Marketing includethe refining of crude oil and trading, marketing and transportation of finished products and by-products.
ii R&M UK Refinery and Marketing UK : On 31 July 2011 the Group acquired the Stanlow refinery in the United Kingdom as discussed further in Note 26.
The activities of Refining and Marketing include the refining of crude oil and trading, marketing and transportation of finished products and by-products.
iii Exploration and Production: The Group has a diverse portfolio of 15 blocks for the exploration and production of oil and gas in India, Indonesia, Madagascar, Nigeria and Vietnam.
iv Power: The Group operates gas and liquid fuel-based power plants in India and Canada together with a number of mining assets.
v Corporate: This comprises Essar Energy plc and its subsidiary companies that provide services to the Group as a whole.
Sales between the segments are made at contractually agreed prices.
The segment revenues and segment results include transaction between business segments.
All inter and intra transactions including all profit or loss made within these segments are eliminated on Group consolidation.
Operating segments The following tables present revenue, profit and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups operating segments for the 12 months ended 31 March 2013 and 15 months ended 31 March 2012.
In prior periods only some elements of other gains and losses were excluded from operational EBITDA.
For the sake of simplicity and clarity all such items are now excluded.
The comparative figures have been restated accordingly.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 95 Annual Report and accounts 2013 3.
Segment information continued 15 months ended 31 March 2012 Exploration and R&M India R&M UK production Power Corporate Eliminations Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Revenue from external customers 14,905.7 6,353.9 1.3 356.5 21,617.4 Sales tax benefit 339.3 339.3 Inter-segment revenue 60.4 60.4 Total segment revenue before adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit 15,245.0 6,353.9 1.3 416.9 60.4 21,956.7 1 Cost of sales 14,250.5 6,317.1 1.7 133.8 71.0 20,632.1 Other operating income 33.0 0.4 2.3 35.7 1 Selling and distribution expenses 117.4 18.3 135.7 General and administration expenses before adjustment 1 for loss of sales tax benefit 128.1 35.5 2.1 19.1 26.7 211.5 Sales tax benefit not included in operational EBITDA 326.3 326.3 Operational EBITDA 455.7 17.0 2.1 266.3 26.7 10.6 686.8 Sales tax benefit adjustment 326.3 326.3 Adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit: Adjustment to revenues Note 8a 1,053.7 1,053.7 Adjustment to general and admin expenses Note 8a 39.9 39.9 Depreciation and amortisation 129.0 18.8 0.7 55.7 204.2 Finance income 123.1 0.6 0.1 12.1 19.4 17.3 138.0 Finance cost before adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit and interest on lapse of prepayment option 344.9 52.9 0.4 78.1 62.9 17.3 521.9 Adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit Note 8a 58.6 58.6 Interest on lapse of prepayment option Note 8b 321.5 321.5 Other losses gains 254.6 0.5 43.6 1.7 296.0 Segment loss profit 1,100.1 87.6 3.1 101.0 68.5 10.6 1,147.7 Tax 39.5 24.1 0.1 15.3 30.8 Tax on loss of sales tax benefit Note 8a 309.9 309.9 Tax on interest arising on lapse of prepayment option Note 8b 104.3 104.3 Loss profit after tax 725.4 63.5 3.2 85.7 68.5 10.6 764.3 1 Excluding depreciation and amortisation.
One customer of Refinery and Marketing segment UK contributing revenue of US$3,296.6 million and three customers in the Refining and Marketing segment India contributing revenues of US$5,169.1 million, US$3,060.3 million and US$1,617.3 million respectively accounted for approximately 48% of the Groups net sales 2012: One customer of Refinery and Marketing segment UK contributing revenue of US$2,327.5 million and three customers in the Refining and Marketing segment India contributing revenues of US$3,637.1 million, US$2,797.0 million and US$2,128.0 million respectively accounted for approximately 50% of the Groups net sales.
Segment assets and liabilities As at 31 March 2013 Exploration and R&M India R&M UK production Power Corporate Eliminations Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Segment assets 9,041.2 2,286.2 554.4 5,961.4 584.4 622.5 17,805.1 Borrowings 4,612.0 545.7 110.6 3,067.6 854.4 457.4 8,732.9 Other liabilities 3,583.1 1,517.2 65.9 740.7 24.7 149.6 5,782.0 Segment liabilities 8,195.1 2,062.9 176.5 3,808.3 879.1 607.0 14,514.9 Addition to property, plant and equipment 221.4 108.1 220.1 643.3 0.4 1,193.3 Essar Energy plc 96 Financial statements Annual Report and accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Geographical information The Groups operations are located mainly in India and United Kingdom.
The following table provides an analysis of the Groups revenue before adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit in 2012 by destination, irrespective of the origin of the revenue: 12 months 15 months ended ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 $ million $ million India 10,993.4 10,136.9 Indonesia 716.2 1,537.6 Singapore 1,077.2 1,248.0 United Arab Emirates 1,071.2 1,362.6 United Kingdom 8,806.5 6,240.8 Netherlands 1,207.4 Other 3,385.8 1,430.8 Total revenue before adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit in 2012 27,257.7 21,956.7 4.
Revenue 12 months 15 months ended ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 $ million $ million Sale of petroleum products 26,858.8 21,260.9 Revenue from power supply 398.9 356.5 Sales tax benefit 339.3 Revenue before adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit in 2012 27,257.7 21,956.7 Other operating income 37.3 35.7 Finance income 187.0 138.0 Total revenue before adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit in 2012 27,482.0 22,130.4 Adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit refer Note 8a 1,053.7 Total revenue 27,482.0 21,076.7 The sales tax benefit in the period to March 2012 relates to the benefit previously recognised on eligible domestic sales within the State of Gujarat from the Vadinar refinery.
Under the incentive scheme, sales tax collected from customers within Gujarat was deferred for payment to the State of Gujarat by up to 17 years.
This deferral gave rise to time value benefit as the difference between the cash received and the net present value of the liability to the State.
The benefit was earned as the eligible domestic sales were made within the State of Gujarat as the benefit did not compensate the Group for any particular costs or expenses, and the Group expected all other conditions related to the benefit to be met in full.
The benefit was included within revenue as it was derived directly from sales made to customers.
The Group continued to apply the accounting policy in respect of the sales tax benefit up to 31 December 2011 as the revenue was earned.
The loss of the benefit as a result of the Honourable Supreme Court judgement on 17 January 2012 was a change in estimate of revenue earned up to 31 December 2011 see Note 8a.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 97 Annual Report and accounts 2013 5.
Loss before tax 12 months 15 months ended ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 $ million $ million Loss before tax is stated after charging: Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 24,502.3 19,274.2 Gain losses on commodity derivatives recognised within gross profit 11.3 93.3 Gain losses on interest rate swap 0.4 5.8 Depreciation and amortisation 277.3 204.2 Staff costs 208.5 159.2 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense Cost of inventories recognised as an expense includes inventory write downs amounting to US$3.3 million 2012: US$4.0 million.
Average employee numbers 12 months 15 months ended ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 No.
Refining and Marketing India 1,393 1,401 Refining and Marketing UK 1,036 1,007 Exploration and production 278 263 Power 1,223 1,012 Corporate 21 16 Total 3,951 3,699 Staff costs 12 months 15 months ended ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 $ million $ million Salaries and wages 186.8 151.4 Social security costs 11.5 6.5 Defined benefit plans 20.0 22.9 Defined contribution plans 11.6 1.5 Total staff cost 229.9 182.3 Less: staff costs capitalised 21.4 23.1 Staff costs charged to the income statement 208.5 159.2 The Company granted options to the Chief Executive Officer and certain members of the Group senior management team to purchase shares under the Employee Share Option Plan ESOP.
Details of the scheme and its performance criteria are set out inthe Remuneration Report.
The total charge in the year relating to the scheme was US$988,859 2012: US$623,569 which is notconsidered to be significant to the Groups results and therefore no further disclosures have been provided within the financialstatements.
Essar Energy plc 98 Financial statements Annual Report and accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Net finance costs 12 months 15 months ended ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 $ million $ million Finance costs Interest 923.8 780.8 Bank charges 95.6 92.8 1 Other 131.7 15.6 Total finance costs 1,151.1 889.2 Less: borrowing costs capitalised 273.6 399.8 Unwinding of discount 32.5 Finance cost before adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit and lapse of prepayment option charged to the income statement in 2012 877.5 521.9 Finance income Interest accrued on assigned receivables 49.6 33.2 Gain on extinguishment of debt 83.7 Interest income 59.9 113.5 Total finance income 193.2 146.7 Less: interest income capitalised 6.2 8.7 Finance income recognised in the income statement 187.0 138.0 Net finance costs before adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit and lapse of prepayment option in2012 690.5 383.9 1 Other includes interest on sales tax liability of US$97.2 million from 17 January 2012 to 31 March 2013 as per order of the Honourable Supreme Court dated 13 September 2012.
Borrowing costs capitalised during the year relate to interest ranging from 0.66% to 14.50% 2012: 1.4% to 16.0% incurred on specific borrowings undertaken to finance construction of assets and exchange differences arising from foreign currency borrowings to the extent that they are regarded as an adjustment to interest costs.
During the year the Group has completed the process for exiting the Corporate Debt Restructuring CDR loan facility set up in December 2004 to help cover the construction of its Vadinar refinery in Gujarat.
The Master Restructuring Agreement MRA loan facility has been replaced with a new debt facility of US$1,084.8 million on commercial terms from a similar group of lenders refer Note 19.
There is a gain of US$83.7 million arising on extinguishment of old debt.
As sales tax was collected from customers, a corresponding liability to the State of Gujarat was recognised at its net present value.
Accordingly, the discount on the liability unwound over time resulting in the finance costs shown above.
The Group continued to apply the accounting policy in respect of this liability up to 31 December 2011.
As a result of the Honourable Supreme Court judgement on 17 January 2012 there was a change in estimate of the liability up to 31 December 2011 see Note 8a.
In a related transaction, the Group had deposited amounts based on the net present value of its future sales tax payments with a related party.
The interest accruing on these deposits of 13.0% 2012: 9.0% per annum is included in finance income above.
Other losses, net 12 months 15 months ended ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 $ million $ million Foreign exchange losses, net 255.9 315.2 Share in losses from joint controlled entities 6.2 2.3 Profit on disposal of available for sale investments 0.2 Surplus on acquisition of a subsidiary Note 26 18.9 Gain on settlement of liabilities 5.4 Others 1.4 3.0 Total other losses, net 263.5 296.0 The significant depreciation in INR from Rs.
54.39 USD has impacted foreign currency assets and liabilities and resulted in foreign exchange losses 2012: Depreciation in INR from Rs.
Foreign exchange losses of US$255.9 million 2012: US$316.9 million arises largely from operational payments to creditors and receipts from customers in USdollars where the settlement date rate was different from the transaction date or closing period rate.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 99 Annual Report and accounts 2013 8.
Adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit The eligibility of the Groups subsidiary Essar Oil Limited EOL to participate in the Sales Tax Incentive Scheme the Scheme was being challenged by the Government of Gujarat in the Honourable Supreme Court of India, following a judgement by the High Court of Gujarat which confirmed that EOL was eligible to participate in the Scheme.
The case was heard at the end of 2011 and, on 17 January 2012, the Honourable Supreme Court of India set aside the previous judgement of the High Court of Gujarat and ruled that the Group could not participate in the Scheme.
The loss of the benefit as a result of the Honourable Supreme Court judgement on 17 January 2012 was a change in estimate of revenue earned up to 31 December 2011.
This required that the entire amount previously recognised to 31 December 2011 was adjusted in the period ended 31 March 2012 against each individual line item through which the relevant benefit or associated costs are recognised.
This adjustment affected four line items within the income statement.
Adjustments have been made to: `` Revenue since the difference between the cash received and the net present value of the liability to the State of Gujarat wasoriginally recognised in revenue in the period in which the associated eligible domestic sales were made to customers: `` General and administration expenses since as part of the conditions for the Scheme monies were set aside for payment to a welfare scheme that were originally recognised within general and administration costs: `` Finance costs since the unwinding of discount on the liability to the State of Gujarat was previously recorded within finance costs: and `` Taxation since a deferred tax asset based on the India Corporate tax rate has been recognised on the consequential losses to be set off against future profits.
Subsequent to the judgement, the Government of Gujarat on 24 January 2012 demanded that the Group repay the entire liabilityincluding interest at 18% from the original due date immediately.
The Group filed a special leave petition before the Honourable Supreme Court seeking directions on repaying the sales tax in instalments and for remission of interest.
The Group paid US$183.7 million against the sales tax liability in July 2012 as directed by the Honourable Supreme Court.
On 13 September 2012, the Honourable Supreme Court directed the Group to repay the balance sales tax liability of US$948.7 million with interest from 17January 2012 at 10% in eight equal quarterly instalments starting from 2 January 2013.
The balance of the sales tax liability including interest accrued as at 31 March 2013 is US$850.4 million.
The impact against each line item in the income statement for 15 months period ended 31 March 2012 is as follows: 12 months 15 months ended ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 $ million $ million Adjustment to revenues 1,053.7 Adjustment to general and administrative expenses 39.9 Adjustment to finance costs 58.6 Impact on profit before tax 955.2 Adjustment to deferred tax 309.9 Impact on profit after tax 645.3 Attributable to: Owners of the Company 562.0 Non-controlling interest 83.3 8b.
Interest arising on lapse of prepayment option Under the terms of the Master Restructuring Loan Agreement MRA the Group had an option to repay a facility at advantageous terms, with lenders approval, before 24 April 2012 and thereby avoid various interest charges.
As Essar Oil was at an advanced stage of the exiting the MRA, it did not seek to exercise the prepayment option, which therefore lapsed in April 2012.
As a consequence, the Group had recognised what was previously considered to be contingent liability, arising from interest which became payable on these facilities, together with a reassessment of the carrying value of these facilities based on the discounted estimated future cash flows.
This had resulted in an additional interest charge of US$321.5 million, less an associated tax credit of US$104.3 million.
The share of non-controlling interest was US$28.0 million in interest charge after tax.
The Group exited the Corporate Debt Restructuring Scheme resulting in termination of Master Restructuring Agreement dated 17December 2004 the MRA and entered into a Common Loan Agreement dated 25 March 2013 the CLA with the lenders for the loan facilities which were previously governed by the MRA refer Note 6.
Essar Energy plc 100 Financial statements Annual Report and accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9.
Auditors remuneration 12 months 15 months ended ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 $ million $ million Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associate for the audit of: Essar Energy plc annual accounts 0.8 0.3 The Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.4 1.7 Total audit fees 2.2 2.0 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services to the Group: Audit-related assurance services 0.7 1.0 Other taxation advisory services 1.2 Other assurance services 0.2 1.2 Total non-audit fees 0.9 3.4 Total 3.1 5.4 In the period ended 31 March 2012, US$1.2 million of non-audit fees were in respect of Reporting Accountant services provided as part of the acquisition of Stanlow refinery.
Other taxation advisory services included US$1.0 million related to the acquisition of the Stanlow refinery.
Tax 12 months 15 months ended ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 $ million $ million Current tax 15.8 38.1 Deferred tax Deferred tax before adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit and interest arising on lapse of prepayment option India in 2012 5.3 16.8 Deferred tax UK 29.3 26.7 Deferred tax Other 3.6 2.6 Total deferred tax 27.6 7.3 Tax expenses before adjustments for loss of sales tax benefit and lapse of prepayment option in 2012 11.8 30.8 Tax on interest arising on lapse of prepayment option 104.3 Adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit 309.9 Income tax expenses credits 11.8 383.4 Effective tax rate % 7.2 33.4 Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 101 Annual Report and accounts 2013 10.
Tax continued A reconciliation of the income tax expense applicable to the profit before income tax at the standard statutory income tax rate in India, as majority of the companies are in India, to the income tax expense at the Groups effective income tax rate for the 12months ended 31 March 2013 and 15 months ended 31 March 2012 is as follows: 12 months 15 months ended ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 $ million $ million Loss before tax 163.2 1,147.7 Tax at the standard rate of corporation tax 32.45% 2012: 32.6% 53.0 374.3 Surplus on acquisition of joint controlled entities 3.4 Deferred tax not recognised 72.6 19.8 Expenses disallowed for tax 8.1 9.0 Minimum alternate tax MAT, net of entitlement 4.6 9.7 Tax holidays non-taxable income 15.8 17.0 Effect of non-Indian rates 6.4 7.4 Adjustment in respect of prior period 10.8 1.5 Impact of change in tax rates 7.4 2.9 Others 1.7 1.0 Income taxes recognised in the income statement 11.8 383.4 The applicable corporate tax rate is the standard effective corporate income tax rate in India.
The maximum tax rate applicable in India is 32.45% with effect from 1 April 2012.
With effect from 1 April 2013, the maximum tax rate has been increased to 33.99% ifincome is greater than US$1.8 million INR 100 million.
Indian companies may be taxed under Minimum Alternate Tax MAT provisions if the MAT tax is higher than corporate income tax.
MAT is charged on book profits at a rate of 20.0%.
With effect from 1April 2013, the maximum MAT has been increased to 20.96% if income is greater than US$1.8 million INR 100 million.
Tax paid under MAT, which is in excess of corporate income tax, can be carried forward for up to 10 years as a credit against corporate income tax in the future.
The applicable tax rate in UK is 24%.
The UK tax rate decreased from 24% to 23% with effect from 1 April 2013.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Deferred tax asset Property, plant and equipment 3.7 5.6 Unabsorbed depreciation 301.7 146.9 Carry forward losses 145.8 44.0 Minimum alternate tax MAT, net of entitlement 31.3 Accruals 282.4 391.2 Borrowings 81.3 Provisions 24.3 15.1 Other temporary differences 76.1 85.0 Total deferred tax asset 834.0 800.4 Deferred tax liabilities Property, plant and equipment 704.9 652.3 Intangible assets 24.6 12.2 Borrowings 7.4 Other temporary differences 10.6 2.1 Total deferred tax liability 747.5 666.6 Net deferred tax asset 86.5 133.8 Essar Energy plc 102 Financial statements Annual Report and accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Tax continued The net deferred tax liability is recorded in the financial information based on the tax position of each Group company as follows: 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Deferred tax liabilities 150.2 137.6 Deferred tax assets 236.7 271.4 Net deferred tax asset 86.5 133.8 Movement in deferred tax liabilities 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Opening balance 137.6 299.4 Charged to income statement 15.6 1.4 Transfer 2.6 146.3 Exchange difference 0.4 16.9 Closing balance 150.2 137.6 Movement in deferred tax assets 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Opening balance 271.4 0.2 Addition due to acquisition Note 26 5.8 Charged credited to income statement 12.0 422.9 Credited to equity 6.7 Transfer 2.6 146.3 Exchange difference 13.4 11.2 Closing balance 236.7 271.4 Deferred tax recognised in income statement 12 months 15 months ended ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 $ million $ million Depreciation and amortisation 50.9 120.2 Minimum alternate tax MAT, net of entitlement 29.4 33.8 Adjustment for loss of sales tax benefit 309.9 Adjustment for interest arising on lapse of prepayment option 104.3 Carry forward losses 104.0 35.6 Borrowings 70.4 43.7 Accruals 85.5 46.1 Others 2.8 55.7 Total deferred tax recognised in income statement 27.6 421.5 The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets for certain unutilised tax losses and unabsorbed depreciation.
Theseunrecognised deferred tax assets comprise of: a Unutilised tax losses amounting to US$24.8 million 2012: US$0.6 million, out of which US$0.6 million 2012: US$0.6 million willexpire on 31 March 2014 and US$24.2 million 2012: nil will expire on 31 March 2021: and b Unutilised depreciation allowances under Indian tax laws amounting to US$11.8 million 2012: nil, over an indefinite period.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 103 Annual Report and accounts 2013 10.
Tax continued The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets of US$32.8 million 2012: US$19.2 million in respect of credits for MAT.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in case of certain losses and credits mentioned above on the grounds that it is not probable that suitable taxable profit will arise before the tax losses and credits expire.
The recoverability of the unrecognised deferred tax asset will be reviewed at future balance sheet dates.
The deferred tax liabilities for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain of the Groups subsidiaries or joint controlled entities have not been recognised as: i the Group has determined that undistributed profit of its subsidiaries will not be distributed in the foreseeable future, but rather tax-free returns of capital may be made if necessary: and ii the Groups joint controlled entities cannot distribute their profits without consent of all joint controlled entities partners.
TheGroup does not foresee giving such consent in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences associated with investment in subsidiaries and joint controlled entities, for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised, as explained above, amount to US$222.4 million 2012: US$213.0 million.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing profit after tax for the period attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
Shares representing: Shares Share capital at 31 March 2012 and 2013 1,303,437,293 The options issued in accordance with the ESOP scheme in 2010, 2011 and 2012 are antidilutive in nature.
The impact of the convertible bonds is antidilutive because the interest that would be added back to basic EPS is greater than the relative adjustment to the weighted average number of ordinary shares.
The following table contains computations for basic earnings per share: 12 months 15 months ended ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 Loss after tax attributable to equity holders of the Company US$ in millions 162.8 690.3 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share million 1,303.4 1,303.4 Basic earnings per share US cents per share 12.5 53.0 Essar Energy plc 104 Financial statements Annual Report and accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
The carrying value of assets held under finance leases included above is set out below: 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Buildings 19.3 20.5 Plant and equipment 0.8 2.3 Others 0.1 0.1 Total assets under finance lease 20.2 22.9 Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 105 Annual Report and accounts 2013 13a.
Other intangible assets Power sales 1 contract Software Right of way Total $ million $ million $ million $ million Cost At 1 January 2011 56.5 9.1 65.6 Addition due to business combination Note 26 8.8 8.8 Additions 3.9 3.9 Exchange difference 0.2 1.1 0.9 At 31 March 2012 56.7 20.7 77.4 Additions 1.5 13.6 15.1 Exchange difference 1.1 0.4 1.5 At 31 March 2013 55.6 21.8 13.6 91.0 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2011 4.5 5.0 9.5 Amortisation 3.6 3.5 7.1 Exchange difference 0.7 0.7 At 31 March 2012 8.1 7.8 15.9 Amortisation 2.8 3.8 6.6 Exchange difference 0.2 0.3 0.5 At 31 March 2013 10.7 11.3 22.0 Net book value At 31 March 2012 48.6 12.9 61.5 At 31 March 2013 44.9 10.5 13.6 69.0 1 Right of way represents the Groups right to use of land for its transmission line for its power plant.
Goodwill 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Opening balance 117.0 133.6 Exchange differences 6.9 16.6 Closing balance 110.1 117.0 Goodwill relates to the following acquisitions: 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Refining and Marketing India business segment Petroleum Refinery 83.8 89.1 Power business segment Essar power plant, Hazira 4.0 4.2 Bhander power plant, Hazira 22.3 23.7 Closing balance 110.1 117.0 In assessing whether goodwill has been impaired, the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit including goodwill is compared with the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In the absence of any information about the fair value of a cash-generating unit, the recoverable amount is deemed to be the value in use.
The Group calculates the recoverable amount as the value in use using a discounted cash flow model.
The future cash flows are adjusted for risks specific to the cash-generating unit and are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate.
The discount rate is derived from the applicable business segment weighted average cost of capital and is adjusted where applicable to take into account any specific risks relating to the country where the cash-generating unit is located.
Essar Energy plc 106 Financial statements Annual Report and accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13b.
Goodwill continued Petroleum Refinery The three-year business plans are used together with long-term market expectations to estimate gross refining margins and other cash flows, which are approved on an annual basis by management, and are the primary source of information for the determination of value in use based on a pre-tax discount rate of 13.7% p. a.
The three-year business plans contain forecasts for refinery throughputs, sales volumes for various types of refined products, revenues, costs and capital expenditure.
As an initial step in the preparation of these plans, various economic assumptions including current financial and operational performance of the plant including the expanded unit, such as oil prices, refining margins, refined product margins and cost inflation rates, are set by management.
The estimated recoverable amount for the refinery unit exceeds its carrying amount by US$3,823.9 million 2012: US$12,011.0 million.
The reduction in the headroom compared to previous year is due to changes in the Gross Refining Margin GRM assumptions compared to previous year as a result of a change in oil prices over the last year and revision to the crude and product slate of the refinery subsequent to the completion of the refinery expansion and optimisation.
Further, the discount rate applied to the cash flow projections has increased compared to the previous period due to change in the debt-equity ratio and the increase in interest rates due to CDR exit.
Gross Refining Margin GRM is the difference between revenue from refined petroleum products and related cost of crude oil used for their production.
GRM is calculated based on market information and past experience of management.
Prices of the petroleum products and crude are exposed to movement in crude prices on the Nymex, International Petroleum Exchange and Dubai Mercantile Exchange.
If GRM falls by 23% 2012: 52% compared to what is considered for impairment testing, Petroleum Refinerys recoverable amount would be equal to its carrying amount.
The Discount rate is estimated based on the weighted average cost of the capital of Essar Oil Limited EOL.
If the discount rate increases by 60% 2012: 155% above what is considered for impairment testing, Petroleum Refinerys recoverable amount would be equal to its carrying amount.
The Directors do not consider these outcomes to be reasonably likely.
Essar Power Plant The Group uses the long-term power sale agreements for estimating the cash flows, which are approved, based on signed contracts in place and are the primary source of information for the determination of value in use based on a discount factor of 10.25% p. a.
These contain forecasts for plant load factor, generation in Megawatts MW, fixed and variable revenue, operating costs and sustaining capital expenditure.
The cash flow projections are based on these forecasts which are approved by management.
The estimated recoverable amount for the power plants significantly exceeds its carrying amount in all cases and no impairment is necessary at the end of periods presented.
The estimated recoverable amount for the power plant exceeds its carrying amount by US$221.3 million 2012: US$382.5 million.
The discount rate is estimated based on the weighted average cost of the capital of Essar Power Limited EPOL.
If the discount rate increases by 111.5% 2012: 138% above what is considered for impairment testing, the power plants recoverable amount would be equal to its carrying amount.
The Directors do not consider this outcome to be reasonably likely.
Bhander Power Plant The Group uses the long-term power sale agreements for estimating the cash flows, which are approved, based on signed contracts in place and are the primary source of information for the determination of value in use based on a discount factor of 10.63% p. a.
The estimated recoverable amount for the power plant significantly exceeds its carrying amount in all cases and no impairment is necessary at the end of periods presented.
The estimated recoverable amount for the power plant exceeds its carrying amount by US$133.5 million 2012: US$651.2 million.
The reduction in the headroom compared to previous year is due to expected increase in gas prices.
The discount rate is estimated based on the weighted average cost of the capital of Bhander Power Limited BPOL.
If the discount rate increases by 137.5% 2012: 293.1% above what is considered for impairment testing, the power plants recoverable amount would be equal to its carrying amount.
Available for sale investments 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Opening balance Additions 32.9 Disposals 32.9 Movement in fair value Exchange difference Closing balance Disposal during 2012 includes disposal of debentures of Essar Teleholdings Limited, which were purchased during the period.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 107 Annual Report and accounts 2013 15.
Trade and other receivables current 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Trade receivables 2,110.9 2,099.0 Receivable from related parties 561.2 609.3 Tax receivable 51.0 20.2 Other receivables 195.3 72.4 Prepayments 28.6 25.5 Advances to suppliers 21.0 8.2 Total current trade and other receivables 2,968.0 2,834.6 The credit period given to customers ranges from zero to ninety days.
The Group has discounted receivables amounting to U$414.8 million 2012: US$94.4 million with the lenders having recourse to the Group in the event of default by the debtor to settle the bills discounted with the lender.
These debtors have been included under trade receivables disclosed above as they do not qualify for derecognition.
Management consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables is approximately equal to their fair value.
Details of the ageing of overdue receivables are set out in Note 24.
Amounts receivable from related parties include US$241.1 million 2012: US$404.6 million which reflects sales tax collected and deposited with the relevant related party.
The relevant related party had committed that such amounts plus interest will be available to meet the Groups sales tax liability when it became due.
Trade and other receivables non-current 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Receivable from related parties 168.8 11.4 Prepayments 38.9 48.8 Others 44.0 37.7 Total non-current trade and other receivables 251.7 97.9 Amounts receivable from related parties include US$159.3 million 2012: nil which reflects sales tax collected and deposited with the relevant related party.
The relevant related party has committed that such amounts plus interest will be available to meet the Groups sales tax liability when it became due.
Other financial assets current 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Bank deposits 676.8 437.6 Other deposits 27.2 8.4 Total current other financial assets 704.0 446.0 16b.
Other financial assets non-current 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Bank deposits 25.3 27.1 Other deposits 35.6 50.7 Total non-current other financial assets 60.9 77.8 Bank deposits include restricted cash of US$701.1 million 2012: US$434.9 million.
Restricted cash represents margin deposits with banks against various bank facilities such as guarantees, letters of credit for import of raw material and capital goods.
Essar Energy plc 108 Financial statements Annual Report and accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17.
Inventories 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Raw material and consumables 1,303.4 1,288.5 Work in progress 465.4 443.9 Finished products 671.8 712.9 Stores and spares 129.1 98.9 Total inventories 2,569.7 2,544.2 Materially all inventories held by the Group are subject to securities provided in respect of bank borrowings as described in Note19.
Inventory write downs during the 12 months ended 31 March 2013 of US$3.3 million 15 months ended 31 March 2012: US$4.0million were recorded to adjust inventories to net realisable value and recognised as an expense in cost of sales in theperiod.
Cash and cash equivalents 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Cash at banks 164.8 377.8 Liquid investments 12.4 120.9 Bank deposits 32.8 175.3 Total cash and cash equivalents 210.0 674.0 Bank deposits have a maturity period of less than 90 days.
Liquid investments represent cash deposited in mutual funds which are fully liquid and can be realised without notice.
Borrowings 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Convertible bonds 482.4 462.4 Non-convertible debentures 175.5 182.4 Banks and financial institutions 6,234.4 5,786.6 Optionally cumulative redeemable preference shares 124.5 114.1 Working capital loans 1,400.8 879.2 Bills of exchange 414.8 94.4 Loans from related parties 8.4 230.9 Total borrowings 8,840.8 7,750.0 Less: unamortised debt issue cost 107.9 103.5 Net borrowings 8,732.9 7,646.5 Current borrowing 5,151.2 1,835.4 Non-current borrowing 3,581.7 5,811.1 Convertible bonds The Group has issued 4.25% US$550.0 million guaranteed convertible bonds in 2011.
The bonds are convertible into fully paid ordinary shares of Essar Energy plc.
The bondholders have the option to convert at any time from 14 March 2011 to 24 January 2016.
The loan notes are convertible at US$11.0861 per share at a fixed exchange rate of 1GBP:US$1.5955.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 109 Annual Report and accounts 2013 19.
Borrowings continued If the notes have not been converted they can be redeemed at the option of the Company at any time on or after 15 March 2014 subject to certain conditions or if not converted or previously redeemed will be redeemed at par on 1 February 2016.
The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 9.5% to the liability component.
The net proceeds of the convertible issues have been split between the liability element and equity and accounted US$107.0 million in equity as convertible bond reserves, less subsequent transfers, representing the fair value of the embedded option to convert the liability into equity, asfollows: 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Nominal value of convertible note issued 550.0 Less: Issue expenses 9.2 Equity component net of issue expenses 107.0 Opening liability 456.2 433.8 Unwinding of effective interest rate 44.9 49.7 Coupon interest paid accrued 23.4 27.3 Closing liability net of issue expenses 477.7 456.2 Secured non-convertible debentures Non-convertible debentures include US$84.5 million 2012: US$85.6 million of debentures issued during 199596 at coupon rates of 5.0% to 12.5% per annum interest expensed at effective interest rate of 10.3%, repayments of which commenced on 30April 2006 and will continue until March 2027.
Non-convertible debentures of US$91.0 million 2012: US$96.8 million of the Power business were issued during 2010 at coupon rates of 10.25% to 11.25% per annum interest expensed at effective interest rate of 10.8%, repayments of which commenced on 31 March 2011 and will continue until 31 March 2018.
Banks and financial institutions The Group has borrowings under various loan agreements with a number of banks and financial institutions.
These lenders provide the Group with term loans, revolving facilities and letters of credit facilities.
Borrowings from banks and financial institutions of nil 2012: US$1,684.9 million are subject to a Master Restructuring Agreement entered into by EOL with the lenders on 17 December 2004 the MRA, prior to its acquisition by the Group.
During the year, the Company exited the Corporate Debt Restructuring Scheme of US$1,084.8 million resulting in termination of the MRA and entered into the Common Loan Agreement CLA dated 25 March 2013 with the lenders for the loan facilities which were previously governed by the MRA.
Borrowings from banks and financial institutions are generally secured pari passu with other lenders of the borrowing company with a first charge on property, plant and equipment, followed by charges over current assets and pledges of certain equity shares in subsidiaries held by the Group.
Working capital loans are secured by a first charge on the current assets and a second charge on property, plant and equipment.
Interest rates on Indian Rupee borrowings range from 10.25% to 15.5% per annum 2012: 10.25% to 16.0% while the interest rate on borrowings in other currencies ranges from 0.7% to 9.1% per annum 2012: 1.4% to 9.1%.
The Group has undrawn committed facilities as at 31 March 2013 of US$1,362.3 million 2012: US$5,287.7 million with maturities ranging from one to two years.
Out of the total, US$608.0 million is subject to receiving certain regulatory clearances.
Details of the maturity and interest profile of the Groups borrowings are included in Note 24.
Covenant non-compliance Power The Group has a number of power projects, some of which have recently been commissioned and others are under development.
Consistent with a number of companies operating in the power sector in India, the Group has been impacted by project delays particularly in relation to regulatory approvals including mine approvals and other factors outside the Groups control.
As a result, there have been instances of late payments of interest and principal and some breaches of financial and non-financial covenants within the respective project loan agreements resulting in events of default.
Whilst the Groups lenders had not called any loans or issued any default notices in relation to the project loans as at 31 March 2013, or until the date of approval of the financial statements, the Group, prior to 31 March 2013, commenced discussions with the relevant lenders to obtain either relaxations or waivers from the respective financial or non-financial covenants of the project loan agreements.
Essar Energy plc 110 Financial statements Annual Report and accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Borrowings continued Subsequent to 31 March 2013 but prior to the approval of the Annual Report, all breaches as at the balance sheet date have been cured but in accordance with IFRS these loans, amounting to US$2,362.6 million, have been classified as current liabilities in these financial statements, as the Group did not have an unconditional right at 31 March 2013 to defer settlement beyond 12 months.
Going forward, the Directors are expecting to obtain further relaxation or refinance the respective loan agreements as set out in the financial review capital and liquidity section of the Annual Report, such that the long-term financing of the projects is secured and the resulting loans will be classified as long-term.
Optionally convertible cumulative redeemable preference shares Optionally convertible cumulative redeemable preference shares OCCRPS of a nominal value INR 3,500 million US$68.2 million were issued in 2009 by Essar Power Limited EPOL, a subsidiary of the Group.
The OCCRPS carry interest rate of 0.1% and 8.0% per annum for the first two years and subsequent five years, respectively.
The OCCRPS are convertible into equity shares at the option of the investor in the event of a covenant default or an IPO of Essar Power Limited.
The conversion price will be determined based on the equity valuation of the subsidiary at the time of conversion.
If there is no Qualified offering of Essar Power Limited, until the final redemption date, then the preference shares will be redeemed at 14.5% to 20.5% interest p. a. at the end of the original term based on valuation of EPOL.
The Group has accounted the OCCRPS at amortised cost with effective interest rate of 20.8%.
EPOL has also issued a warrant to the OCCRPS holder for a consideration of INR 100, which entitles the holder to subscribe to the equivalent of US$15.0 million of equity shares in EPOL at any time before an IPO of EPOL at an exercise price based on a predetermined valuation of EPOL.
The OCCRPS continues to be held as long-term borrowings.
Refer to Note 22 for further information on the valuation of the warrant provided to the OCCRPS holder.
Working capital loans The Group has a number of working capital loans which are used in the ordinary course of business which are subject to interest rates ranging from 0.59% to 14.0% per annum 2012: 1.4% to 15.50% and are short-term in nature.
Bills of exchange Bills of exchange are accepted by banks towards payment of customer invoices and typically carry an interest rate ranging from 1.8% to 10.75% per annum 2012: 10.0% to 11.0% and are settled in a period ranging from 7 to 21 days.
Loans from related parties The Group has entered into loan agreements with related parties.
The loans carry interest of 10.25% per annum 2012: 9.5% to 11.0% on the outstanding loan balance for further details, refer to Note 29.
An analysis of movement in net debt including current and non-current is presented in Note 24.
Trade and other payables current 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million 1 Trade creditors 2,806.5 3,069.6 Accrued expenses 114.7 83.2 Accrued employee cost 11.6 8.7 Due to related parties Note 29b 115.4 187.0 Security deposits 3.1 2.3 Sales tax liability Note 8a 495.1 1,205.9 2 Other current payables 1,141.8 875.9 Advances from customers 316.5 8.8 Financial guarantee obligations 0.9 1.8 Deferred purchase consideration Note 26 175.0 Tax payable 19.1 12.2 Total current trade and other payables 5,024.7 5,630.4 1 Trade creditors include bills of exchange accepted by the Group which are payable within 180365 days of US$75.0 million 2012: US$48.9 million which carry interest ranging from 7.8% to 15.25%.
Other trade creditors are not interest bearing and are normally settled within 60 to 90 days.
2 Other current payables include US$424.2 million 2012: US$774.3 million of VAT and Excise duty payable, US$355.9 million 2012: nil of deferred income in Refinery and Marketing segment UK and US$157.0 million 2012: nil of temporary bank overdrafts in Refinery and Marketing segment India.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 111 Annual Report and accounts 2013 20.
Trade and other payables continued 20b.
Trade and other payables non-current 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million 1 Trade creditors 28.7 66.1 Security deposits 1.0 0.6 Due to related party 41.7 Sales tax liability Note 8a 356.1 Others 9.3 10.2 Total non-current trade and other payables 395.1 118.6 1 Trade creditors includes bills of exchange accepted by the Group of US$28.7 million 2012: US$66.1 million which are convertible, at the discretion of the Group, to long-term loan facility under existing agreements with banks and financial institutions and carry interest ranging from 7.8% to 15.25%.
The Group operates a defined benefit scheme for its employees.
The net liability associated with the scheme is US$1.0 million 2012: US$1.0 million included above, which is not considered to be significant to the Groups financial position and therefore no further disclosures have been provided within the financial statements.
Provisions Rehabilitation and Onerous Customers Sales Rail access resettlement contacts claim tax due bridge Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Opening 1 January 2011 23.2 53.0 76.2 Addition due to business combination 61.9 61.9 Additions 1.3 1,281.0 0.2 1,282.5 Utilised 8.0 8.0 Written back 2.8 1,281.0 1,283.8 Exchange difference 2.7 6.6 9.3 Balance at 31 March 2012 19.0 53.9 46.4 0.2 119.5 Of the above: Current 3.9 5.7 46.4 0.2 56.2 Non-current 15.1 48.2 63.3 Opening 1 April 2012 19.0 53.9 46.4 0.2 119.5 Additions 3.6 13.0 0.4 17.0 Unwinding of discount 4.3 4.3 Utilised 0.7 8.6 9.3 Written back 0.3 0.3 Exchange difference 1.0 2.7 3.7 Balance at 31 March 2013 20.6 62.6 43.7 0.6 127.5 Of the above: Current 4.5 2.2 43.7 0.6 51.0 Non-current 16.1 60.4 76.5 Rehabilitation and resettlement An obligation to incur rehabilitation and resettlement costs arises in land acquisition for project purposes.
These costs are in some cases governed by the policies of State Governments while allowing the industrialist to set up projects in rural parts of India.
These are in the nature of subsistence cost to the land owners who are relocated from their land.
This provision is expected to be utilised over 46 years.
Onerous contacts An onerous contract is a contract in which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
The unavoidable costs under a contract reflect the least net cost of exiting from the contract, which is the lower of the cost of fulfilling it and any compensation or penalties arising from failure to fulfil it.
Thisprovision is expected to be utilised over nine years.
Essar Energy plc 112 Financial statements Annual Report and accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Provisions continued Customers claim Refer Claim by customer section of Note 28 for further details relating to the customers claim.
Sales tax due The sales tax due was recognised in 2012 as a provision in the period but transferred to a liability in the same year when the legal appeal process was extinguished.
Derivative financial assets current 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Cash flow hedges Commodity swaps 19.7 Non-qualifying hedges Commodity swaps 8.5 3.6 Commodity options 7.0 Currency forward contracts 7.9 23.1 Total derivative financial assets current 36.1 33.7 22b.
Derivatives financial liabilities current 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Non-qualifying hedges Commodity swaps 0.8 0.6 Commodity options 0.3 36.4 Warrants Note 19 2.9 3.3 Interest rate swaps 5.8 6.1 Currency swaps 37.0 26.8 Currency forward contracts 8.0 2.0 Total derivatives financial liabilities current 54.8 75.2 The fair values of derivative instruments are calculated using inputs available from market participants.
Where such prices are notavailable, a discounted cash flow analysis is performed using the applicable yield curve for the duration of the instruments for non-optional derivatives, and option pricing models for optional derivatives.
Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using market available forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from market available interest rates matching maturities of the contracts.
Commodity swaps are measured using a forward curve based on futures or forward prices available from market participants and yield curves derived from interest rates available from market participants for matching maturities of the contracts.
Commodity options are measured using the same data as the commodity swaps, but also uses a volatility surface derived from option volatilities available from market participants.
Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from interest rates available from market participants.
Warrants provided to the holder of the OCCRPS were valued through use of a binomial model by reference to forecast performance of the underlying assets.
Cash flow hedges The Group enters into commodity price contracts for hedging highly probable forecast transactions and accounts for them as cash flow hedges and states them at fair value.
Subsequent changes in fair value are recognised in equity until the hedged transactions occur, at which time the respective gains or losses are transferred to the income statement.
The net cash flow hedging reserve recognised in equity is US$14.9 million after a deferred tax charge of US$6.7 million.
During the year the amount of non-qualifying hedge transferred to income statement is US$1.9 million.
The principal amount in respect of interest rate swaps held at 31 March 2013 was US$125.8 million 2012: US$97.7 million carrying an interest rate range of 3.0% to 5.5%.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 113 Annual Report and accounts 2013 23.
Share capital 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Allotted and fully paid share capital of the Company 1,303,437,293 ordinary shares of 5 pence each 99.0 99.0 The Company has reserved 49,611,676 shares for issue under arrangement with convertible bondholders.
The Company has options over 3,034,144 shares under the Essar Stanlow SAYE scheme and 1,531,186 options under the Essar Executive Share Option Plan.
Financial risk management objectives and policies The Groups principal financial liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise loans and overdrafts, debentures, finance leases and trade payables.
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to raise finance for the Groups operations.
The Group has various financial assets such as trade receivables, cash, and short-term deposits which arise directly from its operations.
The Group is subject to fluctuations in commodity prices and currency exchange rates due to nature of its operations.
The Group enters into derivative transactions, primarily in the nature of commodity options and swap contracts and forward currency contracts.
The purpose is to manage commodity price risk and currency risks arising from the Groups operations.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk, commodity price risk and credit risk.
The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks which are summarised below: Interest rate risk The Groups exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Groups long-term debt obligations with floating interest rates.
The Groups policy is to manage its interest cost using a mix of fixed, floating rate debts and interest ratederivatives.
The following table provides a breakdown of the Groups fixed and floating rate borrowings: 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Fixed rate borrowings 4,099.8 5,441.7 Floating rate borrowings 4,633.1 2,204.8 The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, being a 0.5% increase or decrease in interest rate, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax due to the impact on floating rateborrowings.
31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Effect on profit before tax: LIBOR decrease by 50 bps 3.0 4.7 1 PLR decrease by 50 bps 12.9 3.3 1 Prime Lending Rate PLR, set by individual Indian banks in respect of their loans.
The impact of a 50 bps increase in interest rates on profit before tax will be as disclosed above with the exception that gains would be converted to losses.
Foreign currency risk The Group has significant investments and operations in India.
Accordingly, its financial state of affairs can be affected significantly by movements in the INR US dollar exchange rates.
The Group also has transactional currency exposures.
Such exposure arises from sales or purchases by an operating unit in currencies other than the units functional currency.
Essar Energy plc 114 Financial statements Annual Report and accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued The carrying amounts of the Groups financial assets and liabilities denominated in different currencies are as follows: 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 Financial Financial Financial Financial assets liabilities assets liabilities As at $ million $ million $ million $ million Indian Rupees INR 1,870.9 5,867.4 1,910.8 4,979.5 United States dollars USD 1,033.3 5,807.4 896.7 6,190.2 Canadian dollars CAD 26.0 154.8 24.3 170.1 Euros EUR 50.8 32.5 51.6 105.4 Great Britain pound GBP 1,037.9 686.9 1,143.5 25.6 Others 2.4 1.8 2.7 1.1 4,021.3 12,550.8 4,029.6 11,471.9 The Groups exposures to foreign currency on borrowings are given as below: 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Indian Rupees INR 5,233.8 4,529.9 United States dollars USD 3,093.6 2,856.8 Canadian dollars CAD 153.7 168.2 Euros EUR 22.9 87.4 Great Britain pound GBP 228.9 4.2 Total 8,732.9 7,646.5 The Groups exposure to foreign currency arises in part where a Group company holds financial assets and liabilities denominated in a currency different from the functional currency of that entity with US dollar being the major non-functional currency of the Groups main operating subsidiaries.
Set out below is the impact of a 10% movement in the US dollar on profit before tax arising as a result of the revaluation of the Groups foreign currency financial assets and liabilities: 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Effect of 10% strengthening of US dollars against INR on profit before tax: 260.3 241.9 The Group enters into foreign currency swaps, options and forward contracts are used to mitigate the risk arising from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates to cover foreign currency payments and receipts.
The Group also enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to manage the risk associated with anticipated sales and purchase transactions.
The Group has taken forward cover of US$1,534.9 million 2012: US$1,038.9 million to hedge against currency risk against movement in INR US dollar.
The Group has also taken sell forward cover of US$224.3 million and currency swaps of US$378.7 million in INR US dollar.
The impact of a 10% weakening of the US dollar on profit before tax will be the same as disclosed above except that losses would be converted to gains.
Credit risk The Group is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-payment by customers.
The Group is also exposed to credit risk from trade receivables, dues from related parties, term deposits, liquid investments and other financial instruments.
The Group trades with recognised and creditworthy third parties.
Cash, liquid investments and term deposits are held and derivatives are dealt with in banks either international or domestic with high credit ratings reflecting the needs of the Group to operate in territories where international credit ratings are limited by the credit rating of the relevant territory.
It is the Groups policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures.
In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis.
For transactions that do not occur in the country of the relevant operating unit, the Group does not offer credit terms without the approval of the appropriate authority.
The Group is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-payment by customers.
The Group establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables.
Trade receivables disclosed above include amounts see below for aged analysis which are past due at the reporting date but against which the Group has not recognised an allowance for doubtful receivables because there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are still considered recoverable.
No allowance for doubtful debts has been made in the accounts as at 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2012.
None of those trade debtors past due or impaired have had their terms renegotiated.
The maximum exposure Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 115 Annual Report and accounts 2013 24.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of each class of debtors presented in the financial statement.
The Group does not hold any collateral or other credit enhancements over balances with third parties nor does it have a legal right of offset against any amounts owed by the Group to the counterparty.
The Group has assigned certain amounts in respect of its sales tax obligations to a related party which has been guaranteed by a counterparty as described in Note 29.
Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables is as follows: 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million 030 days 84.8 21.1 3060 days 19.8 39.7 6090 days 17.8 25.6 90120 days 12.3 25.4 120365 days 145.9 94.9 15 years 161.7 59.5 5 years plus 18.3 Total 442.3 284.5 The aged receivables include US$190.6 million 2012: US$169.9 million in respect of amounts billed for supply of power to GUVNL.
Payments on ordinary ongoing billings are received from GUVNL regularly and are offset against amounts due.
Overdue amounts which are five years or greater are in relation to amounts due for construction activities performed which the Group have been successful in securing award of payment through arbitration proceedings.
The awards have since been challenged by the counterparties.
The amounts have not been provided for on the basis of the arbitration award in favour of the Group.
Liquidity risk Group companies monitor their risk of shortage of funds using cash flow forecasting models.
These models consider the maturity of their financial investments, committed funding and projected cash flows from operations.
The Groups objective is to provide financial resources to meet its business objectives in a timely, cost effective and reliable manner and to manage its capital structure in line with its two internal debt protection ratios.
A balance between continuity of funding and flexibility is maintained through the use of bank loans, debentures, preference shares and finance leases.
The Group expects to pay 54.2% 2012: 55.2% of its total liabilities within the next one year.
The maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities on a gross basis is given in the table below: Weighted average effective interest rate 1 year 15 years 5 years Total As at 31 March 2013 % $ million $ million $ million $ million 1 Borrowings 9.1 5,551.0 3,635.2 1,546.2 10,732.4 Trade and other payables 3,696.3 13.0 23.2 3,732.5 Derivatives 54.4 0.4 54.8 Finance lease payables 3.6 12.1 14.0 29.7 Financial guarantee contracts 0.9 0.9 9,306.2 3,660.7 1,583.4 14,550.3 1 Amount in borrowings includes the impact of reclassification at balance sheet as explained in Note 19.
Weighted average effective interest rate 1 year 15 years 5 years Total As at 31 March 2012 % $ million $ million $ million $ million Borrowings 8.7 2,455.8 4,681.0 3,006.7 10,143.5 Trade and other payables 3,688.9 88.8 43.7 3,821.4 Derivatives 75.2 75.2 Finance lease payables 6.5 18.2 18.1 42.8 Financial guarantee contracts 1.8 1.8 6,228.2 4,788.0 3,068.5 14,084.7 Essar Energy plc 116 Financial statements Annual Report and accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued The majority of the Groups derivative financial instruments mature within 12 months of each reporting end.
The undiscounted cash flows in respect of derivative financial instruments are US$1,987.3 million 2012: US$1,700.7 million.
Note where the amount payable or receivable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to the projected interest rates as illustrated by the yield curves existing at the reporting date.
Commodity price risk The prices of refined petroleum products and crude oil are linked to the international prices.
The Groups revenues, costs and inventories are exposed to the risk of fluctuation in prices of crude oil and petroleum products in the international markets.
From time to time, the Group uses commodity derivative instruments to hedge the price risk of forecasted transactions such as forecast crude oil purchases and refined product sales.
These derivative instruments are considered economic hedges for which changes in their fair value are recorded in the consolidated income statement.
The Group operates a risk management desk that uses hedging instruments to seek to reduce the impact of market volatility incrude oil and product prices on the Groups profitability.
To this end, the Groups risk management desk uses a range of conventional oil price-related financial and commodity derivative instruments such as futures, swaps and options that are available in the commodity derivative markets.
The derivative instruments used for hedging purposes typically do not expose the Group to market risk because the change in their market value is usually offset by an equal and opposite change in the market value of theunderlying asset, liability or transaction being hedged.
The Groups open positions in commodity derivative instruments are monitored and managed on a daily basis to ensure compliance with its stated risk management policy which has been approved by the management.
Set out below is the impact of 10% increase or decrease in base crude and petroleum product prices on profit before tax as a result of change in value of the Groups commodity derivative instruments: 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Cash flow hedges Effect of 10% increase in prices on equity Crude oil 14.5 Crack 11.1 Effect of 10% decrease in prices on equity Crude oil 14.5 Crack 11.1 Non-qualifying hedges Effect of 10% increase in prices on profit before tax Crude oil 68.6 84.2 Crack 10.8 35.1 Effect of 10% decrease in prices on profit before tax Crude oil 68.6 73.6 Crack 10.8 37.3 Crack refers to the difference between the per barrel price of petroleum products and related cost of crude oil used for theirproduction.
Capital management The Groups objectives while managing capital are to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern and to provide adequate returns for its shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders.
The Groups policy is generally to optimise borrowings at an operating company level within an acceptable level of debt.
Equity funding for existing operations or new acquisitions is raised centrally, first from excess cash and then from new borrowings while retaining on an acceptable level of debt for the consolidated Group.
The Groups policy is to borrow using a mixture of long-term and short-term debts from both local and international financial markets as well as multi-lateral organisations together with cash generated to meet anticipated funding requirements.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is calculated as underlying net debt divided by total capital plus underlying net debt.
The Group measures its underlying net debt as total debt excluding short-term working capital facilities but not longterm facilities disclosed as currently due or other short-term facilities treated as part of the capital of the Group reduced by cash and cash equivalents and bank deposits excluding cash balances or bank deposits identified for specific uses or not available to the Group for general purposes.
Total equity includes equity attributable to the equity holders of the Group as well as noncontrolling interest.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 117 Annual Report and accounts 2013 24.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 As at $ million $ million $ million $ million Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 8,732.9 7,646.5 Less: cash and cash equivalents 210.0 674.0 8,522.9 6,972.5 Working capital loans 1,400.8 879.2 Bills of exchange 414.8 94.4 Related unamortised debt issues costs 36.7 Short term working capital loan 1,815.6 936.9 Other financial assets-bank deposits 702.1 464.7 Lien earmarked for specific uses including restricted cash 735.6 702.1 Underlying net debt 6,740.8 6,273.0 Total equity 3,290.2 3,646.5 Equity and underlying net debt 10,031.0 9,919.5 Gearing ratio 67.2% 63.2 The current gearing ratio of 67.2% 2012: 63.2% reflects the current stage of our business cycle where individual projects are financed using relatively high levels of debt, but with long debt amortisation periods of up to 10 years.
This is normal for large infrastructure projects in the power and oil and gas sectors and is appropriate for the current circumstances of the Group, but is expected to reduce over time as projects mature.
As these projects enter operations, gearing levels are expected to reduce over time and loans are repaid and or refinanced on more attractive terms.
The Directors consider funding requirement on a case-bycase basis with a focus on the type of project and its stage development.
An analysis of the movement in the underlying net debt of the Company is provided in the table below: Cash Other financial Lien Short-term Debt due Debt due and cash assets earmarked for working within after equivalents bank deposits specific uses capital loan one year one year Total Movement in underlying net debt $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million At 1 January 2011 563.7 529.4 618.6 457.8 750.0 3,747.6 3,565.3 Proceeds from borrowings 923.0 964.8 4,151.9 4,193.7 Repayment of borrowings 624.8 906.1 1,060.9 1,342.2 Movement in bills of exchange and other financing 240.2 240.2 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 128.9 128.9 Arrangement fees for undrawn facility 26.3 1.0 27.3 Accrued interest 425.1 425.1 Change in maturity 877.6 877.6 Change in other financial assets bank deposits 5.9 5.9 Change in lien earmarked for specific uses includingrestricted cash 151.5 151.5 Exchange and other differences 18.6 58.8 68.0 59.3 64.8 574.0 570.1 At 31 March 2012 674.0 464.7 702.1 936.9 1,835.4 5,811.1 6,273.0 Proceeds from borrowings 98.4 141.7 2,680.1 2,723.4 Repayment of borrowings 498.8 989.5 1,680.8 2,171.5 Conversion from acceptances 3.0 3.0 131.2 131.2 Movement in bills of exchange and other financing 1,292.6 1,292.6 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 450.3 450.3 Arrangement fees for undrawn facility 38.3 40.0 6.7 8.4 Accrued interest 37.4 37.4 Change in maturity 2,912.0 2,912.0 Change in other financial assets bank deposits 242.3 242.3 Change in lien earmarked for specific uses includingrestricted cash 40.6 40.6 Exchange and other differences 13.7 4.9 7.1 54.8 84.0 492.0 509.7 At 31 March 2013 210.0 702.1 735.6 1,815.6 5,151.2 3,581.7 6,740.8 Essar Energy plc 118 Financial statements Annual Report and accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Financial instruments The accounting classification of each category of financial instruments and their carrying amounts has been tabulated below: Carrying amount 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Financial assets At FVTPL Held for trading derivatives 36.1 33.7 Cash and cash equivalents 210.0 674.0 Loan and receivables Trade and other receivables 3,010.3 2,798.1 Other financial assets 764.9 523.8 4,021.3 4,029.6 Financial liabilities At FVTPL Held for trading derivatives 54.8 75.2 At amortised cost Borrowings 8,732.9 7,646.5 Trade and other payables 3,732.5 3,715.1 Finance lease payables 29.7 33.3 Financial guarantee contracts 0.9 1.8 Total 12,550.8 11,471.9 The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities are estimated at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
Other than fair value of derivatives set out in Note 22, the following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values: a Cash and short-term deposits, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables, and other current liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities or nature of these instruments.
b The fair value of loans from banks and other financial indebtedness as well as other non-current financial liabilities is estimated by discounting future cash flows using rates currently available for debt or similar terms and remaining maturities.
The discounting rate ranges from 7.5% to 14.75%.
The Group financial assets and liabilities that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value are derivatives Note 22.
Derivative financial assets and liabilities are classified as Level 2 fair value measurements, as defined by IFRS 7, being those derived from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the assets or liability, either directly i. e. price or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
There were no transfers between categories throughout the periods presented.
The carrying value of all other financial assets and liabilities closely approximate their fair value except for borrowings Note 19 where fair values are estimated to be US$8,714.0 million 2012: US$7,290.4 million.
26. Business combinations 15 months ended 31 March 2012 Acquisition of Stanlow Refinery On 31 July 2011, Essar Energy plc through its subsidiary Essar Oil UK Limited purchased the Stanlow Refinery from Shell UK Limited Shell for a total consideration of $1,174.0 million including inventory.
The Stanlow Refinery, located on the south side of the Mersey estuary near Ellesmere Port, began commercial operations in 1952, building upon a pre-existing blending and distribution terminal.
It has a Nelson Complexity of 8.2 and accounts for around 15% of production from UK refineries.
The Stanlow Refinery produces approximately 3.5 billion litres of petrol a year, which is one sixth of the UK total, plus it produces around 1.5 billion litres of kerosene per year, used for aircraft fuel.
Name of operations acquired Principal activity Date of acquisition Percentage acquired Cost of acquisition Stanlow Refinery now Essar Oil UK Ltd.
Refining of hydrocarbon product 31 July 2011 100% US$1,174.0 million As part of the acquisition, Essar Energy acquired, among other things, all the fixed assets, the transfer of most of the land at the Stanlow Refinery site including the former Burmah refinery site and the assignment of a number of lease agreements including the Tranmere crude terminal lease, the White Oil Docks lease and the Carrington lease, agreements to operate certain chemical assets, the road gantry and the distribution terminal, the commercial bulk fuels marketing business and the local marine marketing business as well as the transfer of staff at the Stanlow Refinery.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 119 Annual Report and accounts 2013 26. Business combinations continued The Group accounted for the acquisition as a business combination using the purchase method.
The Group recognised a bargain purchase gain in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2008 on the Stanlow Refinery transaction on the basis that the fair value of net assets acquired was greater than the total consideration paid to Shell plc by US$43.9 million.
The Directors believe that the Group acquired the Stanlow Refinery at a competitive price when compared with other recent refinery transactions.
The acquired refinery in the past has delivered margins above the International Energy Association Brent NWE cracking margins.
The Stanlow Refinery is geographically very well positioned.
It provides Essar Energy access to a UK energy route between London and Manchester as well as access into the north-west and central parts of the UK.
The Stanlow Refinery has significant distribution capabilities supported by extensive pipeline logistics, inland and coastal waterways, roads and rail.
The Stanlow Refinery is ideally placed to process North Sea and West North African crudes.
The acquisition is aligned with Essar Energys strategy to provide options for the export of products from the Companys high value refinery at Vadinar, in Gujarat state, India.
This bargain purchase was recognised in the Group income statement within other gains and losses as at 31 December 2011.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired as part of this business combination as at the date of acquisition were: Fair value $ million Non-current assets Computer software 8.8 Property, plant and equipment 408.9 Deferred tax assets 5.8 Total non-current assets 423.5 Current assets Inventory 878.1 Total assets 1,301.6 Liabilities Provision for untaken leave 1.4 Finance lease payables 20.4 Other liabilities 61.9 Total liabilities 83.7 Net assets 1,217.9 Cost of acquisition 1,174.0 Net gain on bargain purchase 43.9 The total consideration paid has been satisfied as follows: Components of the cost of acquisition $ million Purchase of refinery assets Cash consideration for assets 175.0 Deferred consideration for assets 175.0 350.0 Other adjustments Note a 62.9 Consideration for inventory 878.1 Purchase of computer software 8.8 Total cost of acquisition 1,174.0 Note a: As part of the acquisition, in order to obtain industrial approval, the Group was required to maintain the defined benefit scheme for Shell employees transferring across as part of the acquisition and match the benefit which was currently being provided for those existing employees.
The Group has an obligation to the scheme in respect of benefits for future service at the rates agreed, but because this arises on future service only, it was not provided upon acquisition.
Shell provided the Group with a cash payment of US$61.5 million covering the discounted amount of the future cash flow obligation associated with the defined benefit scheme over a 10-year period.
In addition a payment of US$1.4 million was also made in respect of untaken leave.
These payments were recognised as a reduction in the purchase consideration.
Essar Energy plc 120 Financial statements Annual Report and accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26. Business combinations continued The resultant impact of the acquisition on the income statement presented within other losses gains was as follows: Income $ million Gain on bargain purchase 43.9 Costs of acquisition 25.0 Net impact in income statement 18.9 27.
Interest in joint controlled entities The Groups joint controlled entities are as follows: Date of % Voting held by the Group Economic % held by the Group Country of joint venture Name of the entity incorporation relationships 2013 2012 2013 2012 Mahan Coal Limited MCL India 13 09 2006 50.0 50.0 37.0 37.0 Rampia Coal Mines and Energy Private Limited Rampia India 12 07 2010 17.4 17.4 12.4 12.4 Kenya Petroleum Refinery Limited KPRL Kenya 13 07 2010 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 Western Nepal Hydropower Private Limited Mauritius 07 12 2011 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 Eastern Nepal Hydropower Private Limited Mauritius 05 01 2012 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 Movement in interest in joint controlled entities is as below: 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Opening balance 47.4 32.3 Further investment 0.9 18.1 Shares in loss from joint controlled entities 6.2 2.3 Exchange difference 1.2 0.7 Closing balance 40.9 47.4 The share of revenue, profit, assets and liabilities of the joint controlled entities are as follows: 12 months 15 months ended ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 Share of joint controlled entities results $ million $ million Revenue 232.3 21.0 Profits 6.2 2.3 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Current assets 137.5 22.4 Non-current assets 54.3 48.3 Current liabilities 137.0 16.0 Non-current liabilities 13.9 7.3 40.9 47.4 Further Groups share in contingent liabilities and capital commitment of joint controlled entities are as follows: 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Groups share in contingent liabilities 62.2 20.7 Groups share in capital commitments 2.2 9.3 62.4 30.0 Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 121 Annual Report and accounts 2013 28.
Contingencies Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities at the balance sheet date, not otherwise provided for in the consolidated financial statements, are categorised as follows: 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Claims 160.9 105.2 Disputed custom duty 46.8 20.3 Disputed income tax, sales tax and VAT 135.0 14.0 Interest on sales tax liability 396.0 Claim by customer 106.8 113.5 Others 14.7 19.3 Total 464.2 668.3 Contingent liabilities relate predominantly to actual or potential litigation of the Group for which amounts are reasonably assessable but the liability is not probable and therefore the Group has not provided for such amounts in these consolidated financial statements.
The amounts relate to a number of actions against the Group.
Key contingent liabilities have been discussed below: Interest on sales tax benefit As discussed in Note 8a, the Government of Gujarat had claimed interest on the sales tax amounting to US$396.0 million Rs.
Based on legal advice obtained by the Group, the Directors did not consider it likely that material interest was payable on the outstanding sales tax liability.
However as a claim had been made against the Group by the Government of Gujarat, this was disclosed as a contingent liability in the financial year ending 31 March 2012.
On 13 September 2012, the Honourable Supreme Court of India directed EOL to pay interest at 10% with effect from 17 January 2012 only and remit the sales tax liability of US$980.2 million including interest in eight equal quarterly instalments starting from 2January 2013.
The interest on sales tax liability appearing as contingent on 31 March 2012 is no longer contingent in nature as it has been provided for, to the extent payable.
Claim by customer GUVNL, an entity controlled by the State of Gujarat, has in its claim against the Group alleged that EPOL a subsidiary of the Group diverted electricity generated by its Hazira power plant to Essar Steel, a related party, in violation of its power purchase agreement PPA with the GUVNL between 1996 and 2006.
The Apellate Tribunals judgement in this matter was in favour of the Group.
GUVNL has however filed an appeal before the Honourable Supreme Court of India against the order of the Apellate Tribunal.
The case is pending to be heard in the Supreme Court.
The amount of GUVNLs revised claim is US$106.8 million based on Gujarat Electric Regulatory Commission GERC order.
However the Group remains confident of its position as noted below.
On 29 January 2010, EPOL filed a petition before the GERC against GUVNL claiming certain payments due to it under the PPA.
EPOL has made a claim for an aggregate amount of US$72.4 million 31 March 2012: US$77.0 million comprising delayed payment charges, depreciation, foreign exchange variation, interest on debentures, bill discounting charges, interest on working capital and alleged wrongful deduction of rebates by GUVNL.
On 13 February 2013, the Group has filed amended applications for an updated amount of US$140.7 million.
The matter is pending before the GERC.
The amount of receivables from GUVNL at 31March 2013 is US$193.1 million.
In respect of the outstanding claims, the Group does not expect to incur costs or loss in excess of amounts provided in defending its position and recovering its dues.
Disputed sales tax and VAT The Company has been assessed for the period from 1 April 2008 to 31 March 2009 under the Gujarat VAT Act & CST Act.
Commissioner of Commercial Tax, Petroleum Cell -1 has imposed an additional liability of US$121.3 million including interest and penalty under VAT & CST for Assessment of 200809 on an erroneous interpretation of exemption Notification for sale of kerosene sold through the Public Distribution System PDS and Liquified Petroleum Gas for domestic use to Public Sector Undertaking PSUs Companies.
Based on legal opinion the Company has filed first appeals before the learned Joint Commissioner of Commercial tax against the assessment orders so passed against it under the respective Acts and accordingly this has been disclosed as contingent liability for financial year ending 31 March 2013.
Disputed income tax Not included in the table above is a claim arising from a draft assessment received by EPOL regarding the compulsory convertible preference shares CCPS issued, during FY0809, to the holding company Essar Power Holding Limited.
Essar applied the net asset value and profit earning capacity valuation methodologies to this transaction.
The transfer pricing officer has challenged the methodology on the basis that the discounted cash flow method is more appropriate.
While presently no demand has been raised, and the matter is before the Dispute Resolution authority, the tax implication of the change in the valuation method by the transfer pricing officer is approximately US$137.7 million excluding penalty and interest.
Management consider the risk of successful challenge by the tax authorities to be remote based on the strength of their technical arguments.
Essar Energy plc 122 Financial statements Annual Report and accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Contingencies, commitments and guarantees continued Other claims Not included in the table above are a number of other claims in connection with the Group.
However, management believes that the probability of future liabilities in respect of such claims is remote and no amounts have been provided or disclosed as contingent liabilities over the periods presented.
Commitments Operating lease the Group as lessee Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Payable less than 1 year 7.8 3.2 Payable later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 31.6 14.6 Payable later than 5 years 90.7 90.2 Total 130.1 108.0 Finance lease the Group as lessee The Group has finance leases in respect of certain buildings as well as plant and machinery.
Such leases have terms of renewal without any purchase options or escalation clauses.
Renewals are at the option of the specific entity that holds the lease.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: Present value of Minimum lease payments minimum lease payments 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million $ million $ million Payable less than 1 year 5.1 6.8 3.6 6.3 Payable later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 17.5 20.6 12.1 14.3 Payable later than 5 years 39.8 45.3 14.0 12.7 Total 62.4 72.7 29.7 33.3 Less: Future finance charges 32.7 39.4 Present value of minimum lease payments 29.7 33.3 Capital commitments The Group has capital commitments of US$4,910.8 million 2012: US$5,175.2 million in respect of contracts entered into for which works are ongoing.
Of the outstanding capital commitments at 31 March 2013 US$1,005.8 million 2012: US$1,286.2 million are expected to crystallise within one year.
Export obligations The Group imports capital goods under the Export Promotion Capital Goods Scheme and raw materials under the Advance Licence Scheme to utilise the benefit of a zero or concessional customs duty rate.
These benefits are subject to future incremental exports by the Group within the stipulated period.
The Group has following outstanding export obligations: 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 As at $ million $ million Export obligations 856.3 990.7 Based on past performance, market conditions and business plans, the management expects to fulfil the incremental export obligation within the stipulated period.
The expiry of export obligations is as follows: Expiry of export obligations 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 $ million $ million Later than 1 year less than 5 years 157.7 879.0 More than 5 years 698.6 111.7 856.3 990.7 Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 123 Annual Report and accounts 2013 28.
Contingencies, commitments and guarantees continued 28c.
Corporate guarantees The Group has provided a number of guarantees in respect of companies outside of the Group to third party lenders that were entered into prior to IPO and amount to US$23.1 million 2012: US$31.5 million.
Any potential losses incurred in the future by the Group in respect of these guarantees are indemnified by EGFL.
The majority of guarantees provided have been treated as insurance contracts in line with the Groups accounting policies.
Related parties The Group, as discussed in Note 1, is part of the wider group of companies controlled by EGFL.
The Group enters into a number of transactions with EGFL and its subsidiaries together EGFL Group and other related parties together related parties.
The Group shares many functions and services that are performed by various related parties for which costs are allocated across the relevant benefiting entities which have benefited.
The costs have been historically allocated on a basis which the related parties believe is a reasonable reflection of the utilisation of each service provided or the benefit received by each related party.
The allocated costs, while reasonable, may not necessarily be indicative of the costs that would have been incurred by the Company ifit had performed these functions or received these services as a standalone entity.
The Company and EGFL entered into a Relationship Agreement, the principal purpose of which was to ensure that following listing, the Group was capable of carrying on its business independently of EGFL and its associates.
Balances and transactions between entities within the Group, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
The related parties in respect of whom transactions and balances have been mentioned above have been identified based on the definition of related parties provided in IAS24 as well as the requirements of the UK Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Transactions with parent company EGFL, incorporated in Cayman Islands, is the ultimate parent company of the Group throughout the financial period.
The financial statements of EGFL are available at its registered office at Clifton House, 75 Fort Street, PO Box 1350 GT, George Town, Grand Cayman.
Kettle River Holdings Limited and Copper Canyon Holdings Limited have significant influence over EGFL.
EGFL has also provided guarantees to third party lenders in respect of the Group amounting to US$2,331.5 million 2012:US$3,060.3 million.
No significant transactions have occurred with EGFL during the periods presented.
Transactions with related parties The Group has undertaken transactions and has outstanding balances with related parties as follows: 12 months 15 months ended ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 Transactions with related parties $ million $ million Sale of goods and services 365.2 284.3 Purchases of goods and services 510.1 284.6 Interest income 68.4 33.2 Interest expense 11.2 19.0 Purchases of property, plant and equipment 428.9 1,968.4 Essar Energy plc 124 Financial statements Annual Report and accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Related parties continued As at 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 Balances with related parties $ million $ million Trade and other receivables Current 561.2 609.3 Non-current 168.8 11.4 Other financial assets Current 13.5 2.5 Non-current 31.8 43.9 Amounts paid for capital work in progress 386.5 497.1 Trade and other payables Current 115.4 187.0 Non-current 41.7 Loans payable Current 6.0 Non-current 2.4 230.9 Finance lease payable 9.5 11.4 Certain related parties have provided guarantees to third party lenders in respect of the Group amounting to US$2,378.4 million 2012: US$2,606.1 million.
The Group has also provided guarantees in respect of borrowings of certain related parties amounting to US$23.1 million 2012: US$34.8 million.
Any potential losses incurred in the future by the Group in respect of guarantees given on behalf of related parties are indemnified by EGFL.
Transactions with joint controlled entities On 31 July 2009, the Group acquired 50% joint control of KPRL Note 27.
During the year, the Group sold goods of US$145.0 million 2012: US$2.9 million to KPRL and purchased goods of US$32.2 million 2012: nil and balances of US$3.8 million 2012: US$0.7 million are outstanding.
The Group has not invested further in 2013 and 2012 in KPRL.
During the period, the Group has invested US$0.8 million 2012: US$2.6 million in Mahan Coal, nil 2012: US$0.2 million in Rampia Coal, US$0.1 million 2012: US$13.2 million in Western Nepal Hydropower Pvt Limited and nil 2012: US$2.3 million in Eastern Nepal Hydropower Pvt Limited.
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties The sales to and purchases from related parties are made on contractually agreed prices.
Outstanding balances at the balance sheet date are unsecured and bear interest at rates ranging from 9.5% pa to 16.75% pa.
The Group has not recorded any impairment of receivables due from related parties.
An assessment for impairment of related party receivables is undertaken each financial year through examining the financial position of the related party and the market in which the related party operates.
Related party contracts EGFL Group and other related parties are party to a significant number of arrangements with the Group.
The Group is reliant on related parties for a number of ongoing, and in some cases long-term, arrangements including customer and supply contracts, transport and logistics services, construction and other services in relation to the expansion projects and corporate and administrative services.
These arrangements between members of the Group and related parties for the period 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2013 are summarised below: Shared services The Group leases office and other space from certain related parties.
In addition, the Group receives certain services from related parties relating to accommodation, office support services, telecommunications, infrastructure and internet connections, travel and related services including management and maintenance services for aviation related activities, technical services and ground handling services, treasury functions, management consultancy, maintenance of greenbelt in respect of the Vadinar refinery, technical storage facilities, business centre facilities, managerial support and corporate functions including financial advice, legal advice, and advice on matters related to corporate governance, environmental management, risk and insurance, taxation, aircraft usage and related services, information technology services, payroll processing and other HR services and shared services for accounting activities.
The services are generally provided for a period of between three and seven years, terminable by either party on 30 to 180daysnotice.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 125 Annual Report and accounts 2013 29.
Related parties continued Intellectual property Certain members of the Group have been granted the right to use the Essar name for the purposes of their corporate identities and for operating their businesses worldwide.
The amount payable by the Company under the licence agreement is approximately 1.
The total amount payable by Essar Oil and Essar Power under their licence agreements is equal to 0.55% of each of their net revenues i. e. exclusive of value added tax, excise duty and fuel cost in the case of Essar Power companies, and exclusive of taxes, duties and cost of crude oil, natural gas and coal but including commodity hedging gains losses in the case of Essar Oil.
Fees amounting to US$2.71 million, payable pursuant to Essar Oils licence agreement, have been waived for the period of 1April 2012 to 30 September 2012.
Essar Oil provided an amount of US$2.71 million for the period from October 2012 to March 2013 towards this expense.
Fees amounting to US$0.5 million, payable pursuant to Essar Powers licence agreement, have been waived for the period of 1 April 2012 to 30 September 2012.
Essar Power provided an amount of US$0.86 million for the period from October 2012 to March 2013 towards this expense.
Power business Construction projects The Power business has a number of contracts with related parties in relation to onshore and offshore engineering, construction, procurement, transportation and project management services.
Power Purchase Agreements The Group has entered, and expects to enter, into additional, long-term PPAs with related parties.
Key contracts in respect of operational power plants include: `` A PPA expiring in 2026 with Essar Steel for the supply of power from the Essar Power-Hazira power plant to Essar Steel: `` PPAs expiring in 2030 with a number of related parties for the supply of power from Bhander Power-Hazira power plant: `` PPAs expiring in 2029 with Essar Steel Algoma for the supply of all the power produced by the Essar Power-Canada power plant: and `` Commercial agreement with Essar Steel India for supply of power being produced by the Essar Power MP-Mahan project.
Key contracts in connection with power plant projects not yet operational include a number of PPAs for the supply of power to Essar Steel and other related parties.
These contracts are each for a period of 25 years from the date of commencement of commercial operations of the plant to supply the power under the PPA.
These power plant projects include the Essar Power-Hazira project, the Essar Power Orissa-Paradip project and the Vadinar Power expansion projects.
The Group has also issued a number of performance guarantees in favour of Essar Steel and other related parties in respect of its performance under the PPAs.
Water and Fuel Supply Agreements Members of the Group are party to a number of contracts with related parties for the procurement, supply, management and handling of fuel and water needed to generate power.
Key contracts in connection with operational power plants include: `` a water and fuel management agreement with Essar Steel to run concurrently with the Groups PPA with Essar Steel for the procurement and supply of fuel needed to generate the power that Essar Steel has committed to take from the Essar PowerHazira power plant pursuant to its PPA: `` contracts with Essar Steel and other related parties whereby those companies are responsible for providing the natural gas required by the Bhander Power Hazira plant, to generate the power that the related party has committed to take pursuant to the respective PPAs: `` a contract with Essar Steel Algoma expiring in 2029 or such later date as agreed by the parties pursuant to which surplus blast furnace gases and coke oven gas are supplied by Essar Steel Algoma to the Group in return for power and steam for use at Essar Steel Algomas steelworks: `` a number of long-term agreements ranging from 20 to 25 years for coal supply, coal handling, coal affreightment, to secure the supply of coal to the Essar Power Gujarat-Salaya power plant: `` a 25-year water supply agreement and a 15-year fuel supply agreement with Essar Steel Hazira for the Vadinar power plant expansion project: and `` a long-term agreement for coal handling in respect of the Essar Power Vadinar Power expansion project.
Key contracts in connection with power plant projects not yet fully operational include: `` certain agreements with related parties to provide fuel and water for the power plants and projects at Orissa and Hazira: and `` a company within the Group entered into a memorandum of understanding dated 17 October 2011 up to 31 March 2015 for the supply of coal for some of the Indian power plants, with a related party.
Pursuant to the agreed arrangements between the parties and in anticipation of entry into the said agreement, an advance of US$33 million has been paid in relation to this transaction to date.
Other arrangements Operations and maintenance agreement with Essar Steel The Power business has agreed to provide operations and maintenance services to Essar Steel for the 25 MW power plant of Essar Steel located at Visakhapatnam for a term of 15 years from 1 July 2006 at cost plus profit margin of 15% which will increase by a growth rate of 6% on an annual basis.
Essar Energy plc 126 Financial statements Annual Report and accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Related parties continued Service agreement The Group entered into an agreement with related party Essar Minerals Resources Ltd for mining consultancy services from 1January 2012 for a period of one year.
This has now been extended for a further period of six months until June 2013 on the same terms.
Leases A company within the Group has agreed to lease the site of the Essar Orissa-Paradip power plant from a related party.
The lease is for a period of 90 years.
Rent payable under the lease will be determined by the parties at the time of execution of the lease.
Essar Power MP has entered into a lease agreement with a related party for the lease of township facilities at Mahan for its employees for a period of nine years.
Essar Power Jharkhand has also entered into a MOU for the lease of township facilities in Tori, Jharkhand.
Essar Power Hazira, Essar Power Transco and Essar Power Canada have agreed to lease the site for their projects from a relatedparty.
Guarantees Essar Power Gujarat, Essar Power MP, Essar Power Hazira and Essar Power Orissa have also availed corporate guarantees from Essar Steel in relation to the Export Promotion Capital Goods scheme for amounts up to 15% of the amount of duty saved on import of the capital goods.
Oil and Gas business Exploration and production The Group has contracted with certain related parties for the hiring of drilling rig services, along with related equipment, personnel, instruments, materials, stores, accommodation and other services at its various exploration blocks.
The expiry dates of these agreements range from 2013 to 2019.
The Group has also contracted with certain related parties for laying gas pipelines and for certain engineering, design and procurement and construction services.
Refinery expansion, optimisation and HMU Hydrogen Manufacturing Unit 2 projects In connection with certain refinery expansion, optimisation and HMU-2 projects, the Group has contracted with various related parties for engineering services, project management services, project construction, equipment transport and handling services, customs clearance, petroleum handling services, and the supply of equipment and bulk materials.
Certain related parties are required to provide performance guarantees and corporate guarantees in favour of the Group in relation to each of the contracts for these services.
Shipping and logistics Related parties provide the Vadinar refinery with logistical services for transporting refined petroleum products by road from the refinery to various depots and other locations within India, where those products are ultimately sold.
The contract relating to the provision of these services expires on 31 March 2017.
Petroleum handling The Group has petroleum handling agreements with two related parties expiring on 31 March 2019, under which the related parties provide services for the receipt, handling, storage and dispatch of the Groups crude oil and intermediate and refined petroleum products.
Further, under the terms of the agreements, the Group supplies all utilities to the relevant related parties, including power, water and steam, at no additional cost.
Maintenance and supplies The Group has contracted with certain related parties to provide maintenance services, including technical services and day-today maintenance, to their facilities.
Other arrangements The Group has also contracted with certain related parties in relation to SAP and other licence implementation and maintenance, shared services, bidding for the purchase of power for Essar Oil, facilitation of procurement of petroleum products and lubricants and providing retail outlet operational services.
Leases The Group leases the site of the Vadinar port terminal operations from certain related parties under a 30-year lease renewable by the related parties at an annual rent of approximately Rs.
The residential township and transit accommodation, used by employees and visitors of the petroleum refinery, were leased by the Group for a period of 20 years at an annual rent of approximately Rs.
152.7 million US$2.9 million from a related party.
On expiry of the lease, the Group has an option to extend the lease under mutually agreed terms and conditions.
Essar Oil has also entered into an agreement with Vadinar Properties for the construction of township facilities to house its employees.
Essar Oil has paid an advance deposit of approximately Rs.
630 million US$12.3 million as of March 2013.
Vadinar Properties is required to transfer the premises contracted pursuant to the agreement with Essar Oil on completion by way of lease as agreed between the parties.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 127 Annual Report and accounts 2013 29.
Related parties continued Sales tax liability assignment Prior to a ruling by the Supreme Court of India on 17 January 2012, the Group believed it was entitled to receive certain sales taxincentives under the Capital Investment Incentive Premier Prestigious Unit Scheme 19952000.
In connection with such incentives, the Group assigned its liability for the sales tax collected from commercial production i. e. 1 May 2008 up to the period ended 17 January 2012 to a related party and paid the present value in relation to such liability to that entity up to November 2011.
The assignment agreement was terminated with effect from 31 March 2012.
As mutually agreed, the outstanding assigned amount along with accrued interest is to be repaid by the related party to the Group in eight equal quarterly instalments starting from 2 January 2013.
The Group has received a guarantee from a related party for the assigned amount.
Guarantees Essar Global Fund Limited has provided the following guarantees undertakings in favour of a third party lending bank for the benefit of a Group company: `` undertaking in relation to changing the Base Refinery non priority loan into a priority loan until the repayment of such loan: `` undertaking in relation to cost overrun, scheduled principal repayment and interest payment until project completion of phase 1 refinery expansion project.
On completion of phase 1 refinery expansion project, Essar Global Fund Limited will approach the relevant lenders for a release of the undertaking: and `` guarantee to meet any liability towards repayment or refund of sales tax deferral amounts and any interest or other amounts due in relation thereto, to the extent disallowed finally by a court of competent jurisdiction, as reduced by any amounts used to pre-pay the lenders to the extent required by the lenders.
Other related parties have provided the following guarantees in favour of a third party lending bank for the benefit of a Group company: `` guarantee in relation to a working capital term loan which expires in March 2017: `` guarantee in relation to repayment of certain Base Refinery loans which expires on the last repayment date of such loans: and `` guarantee in relation to a working capital facility which expires renews on the renewal of such working capital facility.
A Group company has also provided a guarantee in favour of a third party lending bank for the benefit of an related party in relation to repayment of a certain loan: such guarantee expires on the repayment of such loan.
Ravikant Ruia and Prashant Ruia, Directors of the Company, together with Shashikant Ruia, have also provided personal guarantees for working capital and term loans taken by Essar Oil.
Essar Power share purchase agreement Essar Power Holdings Limited EPH, a subsidiary of the Company, entered into a share purchase agreement, governed by Indianlaw, dated 6 April 2010 with Essar Steel India Limited Essar Steel, a related party, pursuant to which Essar Steel agreed totransfer its shareholding of 217,000,000 equity shares subsequently 2,000,000 shares have been issued to Essar Steel bringing the total shareholding to 219,000,000, representing 26% of the issued equity share capital of Essar Power Limited, to EPH for a consideration of US$99.0 million Rs.
This share purchase agreement came to an end on 30 September 2011 with no shares being transferred.
A new agreement was entered into on 4 November 2011 extended by an addendum agreement dated 28 March 2013 with similar pre-conditions requiring, notwithstanding any pre-conditions, both the buyer and seller to consent to the transaction.
Whilstit remains the intention of the Group to acquire this shareholding along with an additional 2,000,000 shares, there is currently no commitment.
Essar Oil call option agreement Under a call option agreement dated 6 April 2010 and related addendum agreements signed on 30 December 2010, 11 November 2011, 28 March 2013 and 18 May 2013, Essar Energy Holdings Limited EEH, a subsidiary of the Company, had an option to acquire 39,162,217 shares held by Essar Investments Limited in EOL.
In April 2012, the Investments and Finance Division of Essar Investments Limited was demerged into a new entity, Imperial Consultants and Securities Private Limited Imperial, pursuant to a scheme of demerger approved by the High Court of Bombay and the High Court of Madras.
This demerger transferred the call option arrangements and the shares in EOL previously held by Essar Investments Limited to Imperial.
The call option arrangements provide EEH with an option to acquire the shares held by Imperial, a related party, in EOL in the period between 1 May 2010 and 30 June 2014 at the lower of: a Rs.
105 and b the closing price of the shares, provided that theprice per share is at least the minimum price required to be paid under applicable law.
In the event of the option lapsing, the holding cost payable is measured as 10% of the higher of a the average weekly high and low of the closing prices of the share of EOL during the 26 weeks period prior to 1 July 2014: and b the average of the daily high and low of the prices of the shares of EOL during the two week period prior to 1 July 2014.
On 20 May 2013, EEH part-exercised the option and agreed to purchase 32,947,191 shares in EOL, representing a 2.41% interest including GDS, from Imperial.
The option was exercised at a price of Rs.
81.11 per share and the total consideration paid for the shares was US$48,650,039.
EEH intends to purchase the remaining shares before the option lapses on 30 June 2014.
The option shares not purchased on 20 May 2013 a further 6,215,026 shares in EOL representing a 0.46% interest including GDS are presently pledged in favour of various Indian banks and the actual transfer of these shares pursuant to the exercise of the call option by EEH will be subject to the release of these pledges by the relevant banks.
Essar Energy plc 128 Financial statements Annual Report and accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Related parties continued Essar Investment Limited previously waived the holding costs payable as the shares could not be delivered as they were encumbered.
Following the demerger, the shares remained pledged, and Imperial has waived the holding costs payable by EEH as at 18 May 2013.
No liability is accounted for in these financial statements.
Remuneration of Directors and key management personnel Remunerations paid to Directors and key management personnel were primarily in the form of short-term employee benefits amounting to US$13.1 million 2012: US$9.3 million out of which US$1.0 million 2012: US$0.6 million pertains to Employee stock option plan charge.
Subsidiaries % Voting held by the Group Economic % held by the Group As at As at As at As at Country of 31March 31March 31March 31March S. No.
Company incorporation Principal activities 2013 2012 2013 2012 1 Essar Energy Holdings Limited Mauritius Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 2 Essar Oil & Gas Ltd formerly known Mauritius Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 asVadinar Oil 3 Essar Oil Limited India Refinery and marketing 87.1 87.1 87.1 87.1 4 Essar Energy Overseas Limited Mauritius Trading 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 5 Essar Petroleum East Africa Limited Kenya Trading 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 6 Essar Oil UK Limited United Kingdom Refinery and marketing 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 4 7 Essar Oil Germany GmbH Germany Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 8 Essar Oil Stanlow Limited United Kingdom Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 9 Essar Chemicals Limited Mauritius Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 10 Essar Gujarat Petrochemicals Limited India Petrochemical 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 11 Essar Exploration and Production Mauritius Exploration and Production 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Limited 12 Essar Exploration & Production Limited Nigeria Exploration and Production 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 13 Essar Exploration and Production India Exploration and Production 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 IndiaLimited 14 Essar Oil Holdings Limited Mauritius Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Cyprus Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 15 Essar Oil Cyprus Limited formerly known as Star Sapphire Enterprises Limited 16 Essar Oil International AG Switzerland Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 17 Essar Oil Mauritius Limited formerly Mauritius Trading 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 known as Pitney Mauritius HoldingsLimited 18 Essar Power Holdings Limited Mauritius Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 19 Essar Power Hazira Holdings Limited Mauritius Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 20 Essar Minerals FZE UAE Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 21 Algoma Power Cooperatief U.
A Netherlands Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 22 Algoma Power B. V Netherlands Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 23 Essar Power Canada Limited Canada Power Plant 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 5 24 Essar Power Limited India Power Plant 74.0 74.0 74.0 74.0 25 Essar Power Overseas Limited BVI Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 26 Essar Power Transmission India Power Transmission 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 CompanyLimited 27 Essar Power Jharkhand Limited India Power Plant 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 1 28 Essar Power Chhattisgarh Limited India Power Plant 100.0 74.0 3 29 Essar Power Hazira Limited India Power Plant 99.2 99.1 73.4 73.3 30 Essar Power MP Limited India Power Plant 99.7 99.6 73.8 73.7 31 Essar Power Gujarat Limited India Power Plant 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 32 Essar Wind Power Private Limited India Wind Turbine Manufacturer 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 3 33 Essar Power Orissa Limited India Power Plant 99.1 99.1 73.3 73.3 4 34 Essar Power Tamil Nadu Limited India Power Plant 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 129 Annual Report and accounts 2013 30.
Subsidiaries continued % Voting held by the Group Economic % held by the Group As at As at As at As at Country of 31March 31March 31March 31March S. No.
Company incorporation Principal activities 2013 2012 2013 2012 35 Essar Electric Power Development India Power Trading 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 Corporation Limited 36 Bhander Power Limited India Power Plant 73.7 73.7 54.5 54.5 3 37 Vadinar Power Company Limited India Power Plant 100.0 100.0 75.7 75.7 38 Essar Power Salaya Limited India Power Plant 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 1 39 Main Street 736 Proprietary Limited South Africa Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 40 Essar Power Nepal Holdings Limited Mauritius Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 41 Essar Power East Africa Limited Kenya Project management services 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 42 Navabharat Power Private Limited India Power Plant 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 43 Essar Power & Minerals S. A.
Limited Mauritius Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 44 Essar Recursos Minerals fide Mozambique Coal mine 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 MozambiqueLimitada 45 PT Essar Minerals Indonesia Indonesia Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 46 PT Bara Pratma Indonesia Indonesia Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 47 PT Manoor Bulatn Lestari Indonesia Indonesia Coal mine 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 48 Essar Power Distribution Co Ltd India Power Distribution 100.0 100.0 74.0 74.0 1 49 Essar Power Solar Limited India Power Plant 100.0 74.0 50 Essar Energy Services UK Limited United Kingdom Service provider 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 51 Essar Energy Investments Limited Jersey Investment Holding 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 52 Essar Energy Services Mauritius LimitedMauritius Service provider 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 1 Liquidated.
2 Disposed of during the year.
3 Holding reflected economic interest including Participating Preference Shares issued by the entity to Essar Power Limited, its direct parent.
5 Essar Power Limited has issued compulsory convertible preference shares CCPS to Essar Power Holdings Limited and Essar Power Hazira Holdings Limited.
Effective holdings will be 98.3% upon conversion of CCPS to equity shares.
Operating lease arrangements The Group as lessor: The Group provides storage services under an arrangement with a trading counterparty.
Storage income earned during the year was US$31.6 million 2012: nil.
At the balance sheet date, the Group had contracted for the following future minimum lease income: 12 months 15 months ended ended 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 $ million $ million Receivable not later than 1 year 26.4 Receivable later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 33.0 Receivable later than 5 years 59.4 32.
Subsequent events On 20 May 2013 Essar Energy announced that its 100% subsidiary Essar Energy Holdings Limited, Mauritius, had agreed to purchase 32,947,191 shares in Essar Oil Limited, India, representing a 2.41% interest including Global Depository Securities, from Imperial Consultants and Securities Private Limited.
The acquisition was pursuant to a call option agreement entered into with Essar Investments Ltd which subsequently demerged its investment division to Imperial.
81.11 per share and the total consideration to be paid for the shares is US$48,650,039.
Essar Energys decision to exercise the option was driven by its desire to consolidate non-public holdings of Essar Oil.
