Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 77 Annual Report and accounts 2013 Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Responsibility statement and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: and regulations.
`` the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the are required to prepare the Group financial statements in consolidation taken as a whole: and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards `` the management report entitled Business Review, which is IFRS as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the incorporated into the Directors report, includes a fair review of IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the Company the development and performance of the business and the financial statements under IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Under position of the Company and the undertakings included in the Company law the Directors must not approve the accounts consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial For and on behalf of the Board statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: `` properly select and apply accounting policies: Naresh Nayyar `` present information, including accounting policies, in a Chief Executive Officer manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 23 June 2013 understandable information: `` provide additional disclosures when compliance with the The Directors are listed on pages 52 and 53 of this Annual Report.
specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and `` make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
