Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 84 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The directors have assessed that the impact of the adoption of these 1 Accounting policies standards will have no material impact on the financial statements of the General information group except for additional disclosures.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC the company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom UK.
c Relevant new standards, amendments and interpretations issued but effective in future accounting periods: The group financial statements consolidate those of the company and its IFRS 9 Financial Instruments issued in October 2010 effective for subsidiaries together referred to as the group and equity-account the accounting periods beginning on or after January 1 2015.
This groups interest in associates.
The parent company financial statements standard is the first step in the process to replace IAS 39 Financial present information about the entity and not about its group.
IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets and is The group financial statements have been prepared and approved by likely to affect the groups accounting for its financial assets.
This the directors in accordance with the International Financial Reporting standard has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
The group is yet to Standards IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and, therefore, assess IFRS 9s full impact.
comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The company has elected IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements effective for accounting to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with periods beginning on or after January 1 2014.
This standard builds UK GAAP.
on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor in whether an entity should be included within Judgements made by the directors in the application of those accounting the consolidated financial statements of the parent company and policies that have a significant effect on the financial statements, and provides additional guidance to assist in the determination of control estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year, where this is difficult to assess.
The group is yet to assess IFRS 10s are discussed in note 2. full impact.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements effective for accounting periods a Relevant new standards, amendments and interpretations issued beginning on or after January 1 2014.
This standard replaces and applied in the 2013 financial year: IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures and requires a party to a joint Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income Amendments arrangement to determine the type of joint arrangement in which it to IAS 1, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after July is involved by assessing its rights and obligations and then account 31 2012.
This amends IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements to for those rights and obligations in accordance with that type of revise the way other comprehensive income is presented.
A joint venturer applies the equity method of accounting for its investment in a joint venture in accordance with b Relevant new standards, amendments and interpretations issued but effective in the 2014 financial year: IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 2011.
Unlike IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement effective for accounting periods IAS 31 the use of proportionate consolidation to account for joint beginning on or after January 1 2013.
This standard aims to improve ventures is not permitted.
consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities effective for of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and accounting periods beginning on or after January 1 2014.
This disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs.
The requirements, standard includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of which are largely aligned between IFRSs and US GAAP, do not extend interests in other entities, including joint arrangements, associates, to the use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles.
The should be applied where its use is already required or permitted by group is yet to assess IFRS 12s full impact.
other standards within IFRSs or US GAAP.
IAS 12 Income Taxes on deferred tax: recovery of underlying assets IAS 19 revised Employee Benefits, issued in June 2011 effective effective for accounting periods beginning on or after January 1 for accounting periods beginning on or after January 1 2013.
This amendment provides a presumption that recovery of the impact on the group will be as follows: to recognise all actuarial carrying value of an asset measured using the fair value model in gains and losses in Other Comprehensive Income as they occur: to IAS 40 Investment Property will, normally, be through sale.
immediately recognise all past service costs: and to replace interest cost and expected return on plan assets with a net interest amount that is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined liability asset.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 85 85 to provide additional transition relief in by limiting the requirement 1 Accounting policies continued to provide adjusted comparative information to only the preceding IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements 2011 effective for comparative period.
Effective for accounting periods beginning on or accounting periods beginning on or after January 1 2014.
The after January 1 2014. standard requires that when an entity prepares separate financial Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS statements, investments in subsidiaries, associates, and jointly 27, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after controlled entities are accounted for either at cost, or in accordance January 1 2014.
This amends IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
It also deals with the recognition Statements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities and of dividends, certain group reorganisations and includes a number of IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements to: provide investment disclosure requirements.
entities an exemption from the consolidation of particular IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 2011 subsidiaries and instead require that an investment entity measure effective for accounting periods beginning on or after January 1 the investment in each eligible subsidiary at fair value through 2014.
This standard supersedes IAS 28, Investments in Associates, profit or loss in accordance with IFRS9 Financial Instruments or and prescribes the accounting for investments in associates and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: sets out the requirements for the application of the equity method require additional disclosure about why the entity is considered an when accounting for investments in associates and joint ventures.
investment entity, details of the entitys unconsolidated subsidiaries, The standard defines significant influence and provides guidance and the nature of relationship and certain transactions between on how the equity method of accounting is to be applied including the investment entity and its subsidiaries: require an investment exemptions from applying the equity method in some cases.
It also entity to account for its investment in a relevant subsidiary in the prescribes how investments in associates and joint ventures should same way in its consolidated and separate financial statements be tested for impairment.
or to only provide separate financial statements if all subsidiaries are Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities unconsolidated.
Amendments to IFRS 7, effective for accounting periods beginning Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-financial Assets on or after January 1 2013.
This amends the disclosure requirements Amendments to IAS 36, effective for accounting periods beginning in IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures to require information on or after January 1 2014.
This amends IAS 36 Impairment of about all recognised financial instruments that are set off in Assets to reduce the circumstances in which the recoverable amount accordance with paragraph 42 of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: of assets or cash-generating units is required to be disclosed, clarify Presentation.
the disclosures required, and to introduce an explicit requirement Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to to disclose the discount rate used in determining impairment or IAS 32, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after January reversals where the recoverable amount based on fair value less 1 2014.
This amends IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation costs of disposal is determined using present value techniques.
to clarify certain aspects because of diversity in application of the Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting requirements on offsetting, focused on four main areas: Amendments to IAS 39, effective for accounting periods beginning the meaning of currently has a legally enforceable right of on or after January 1 2014.
This amends IAS 39 Financial Instruments: set-off Recognition and Measurement to make it clear that there is no need the application of simultaneous realisation and settlement to discontinue hedge accounting if a hedging derivative is novated, the offsetting of collateral amounts provided certain criteria are met.
the unit of account for applying the offsetting requirements.
Annual Improvements 20092011 Cycle: In May 2012 the IASB issued The directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards in future Annual Improvements to IFRSs 20092011 Cycle incorporating six periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the amendments to five standards.
Most of the proposed amendments group except for additional disclosures.
One very useful clarification relates to the third balance sheetrequirements in IAS 1: under the proposals, additional related notes are not required to accompany that additional balance sheet.
Effective for accounting period beginning on or after January 1 2014.
Consolidated Financial Statements, Joint Arrangements and Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities: Transition Guidance amends IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Group Accounts Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 86 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to 1 Accounting policies continued the date the group obtains complete information about facts and Basis of preparation circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and is a maximum The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, of one year.
except for certain financial instruments which have been measured at fair value.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied Partial acquisitions control unaffected consistently to all periods presented in these group financial statements.
Where the group acquires an additional interest in an entity in which The directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing this a controlling interest is already held, the consideration paid for the report as explained in detail on page 30. additional interest is reflected within movements in equity as a reduction in non-controlling interests.
Basis of consolidation a Subsidiaries Step acquisitions control passes to the group The consolidated accounts incorporate the accounts of the company and Where a business combination is achieved in stages, at the stage at which entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries.
Control is achieved control passes to the group, the previously held interest is treated as if it where the company has the power to govern the financial and operating had been disposed of, along with the consideration paid for the controlling policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The fair value of the previously held interest then forms one of the components that is used to calculate goodwill, along Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on with the consideration and the non-controlling interest less the fair value transactions between group companies are eliminated.
The group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for The consideration paid for the earlier stages of a step acquisition, before business combinations.
The amount recognised as consideration by control passes to the group, is treated as an investment in an associate.
the group equates to the fair value of the assets, liabilities and equity acquired by the group plus contingent consideration should there be any b Transactions and non-controlling interests such arrangement.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
Transactions with non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities subsidiaries are identified separately and included in the groups equity.
assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the values at acquisition.
On an  basis, the group date of the original business combination and its share of changes in recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value equity since the date of the combination.
Total comprehensive income or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the nonnet assets.
controlling interests having a deficit balance.
To the extent the consideration including the assumed contingent Where the group owns a non-controlling interest in the equity share capital consideration provided by the acquirer is greater than the fair value of the of a non-quoted company and does not exercise significant influence, it is assets and liabilities, this amount is recognised as goodwill.
Goodwill also held as an investment and stated in the balance sheet at the lower of cost incorporates the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and net realisable value.
and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the groups share of the identifiable net c Associates assets acquired.
If this consideration is lower than the fair value of the net An associate is an entity over which the group is in a position to exercise assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised as negative significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation goodwill directly in the Income Statement.
in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end statements using the equity method of accounting and are initially of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the group reports recognised at cost.
The groups investment in associates includes goodwill provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment loss.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period, or additional asset and liabilities are recognised to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the date of the acquisition that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 87 87 Property, plant and equipment 1 Accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated The groups share of associate post-acquisition profit or losses is depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
recognised in the Income Statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in the Statement Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is provided on a straightof Comprehensive Income.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements line basis over their expected useful lives at the following rates per year: are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the groups share of losses in an associate equals its interest in the associate, Freehold land do not depreciate including any other unsecured receivables, the group does not recognise Freehold buildings 2% further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on Long-term leasehold premises over term of lease behalf of the associate.
Short-term leasehold premises over term of lease Office equipment 11% 33% Unrealised gains on transactions between the group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in the associates.
Intangible assets Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides Goodwill evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of purchase consideration associates have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with over the net fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
the policies adopted by the group.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset at cost and subsequently measured at Dilution gains and losses arising in investments in associates are recognised cost less accumulated impairment.
For the purposes of impairment testing, in the Income Statement.
goodwill is allocated to those cash generating units that have benefited from the acquisition.
Assets are grouped at the lowest level for which Foreign currencies there are separately identifiable cash flows.
The carrying value of goodwill Functional and presentation currency is reviewed for impairment at least annually or where there is an indication The functional and presentation currency of Euromoney Institutional that goodwill may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash Investor PLC and its UK subsidiaries, other than Fantfoot Limited and generating unit is less than its carrying amount, then the impairment loss Centre for Investor Education UK Limited, is sterling.
The functional is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of the goodwill allocated currency of other subsidiaries and associates is the currency of the primary to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit on a pro rata basis.
Any economic environment in which they operate.
impairment is recognised immediately in the Income Statement and may not subsequently be reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary undertaking, Transactions and balances the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange the profit and loss on disposal.
ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the Goodwill arising on foreign subsidiary investments held in the consolidated rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on foreign balance sheet are retranslated into sterling at the applicable period end currency borrowings and derivative instruments, to the extent that they exchange rates.
Any exchange differences arising are taken directly to are used to provide a hedge against the groups equity investments in equity as part of the retranslation of the net assets of the subsidiary.
overseas undertakings, are taken to equity together with the exchange difference arising on the net investment in those undertakings.
All other Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has exchange differences are taken to the Income Statement.
been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts having been tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP Group companies before October 1 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in The Income Statements of overseas operations are translated into sterling determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
at the weighted average exchange rates for the year and their balance sheets are translated into sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
All exchange differences arising on consolidation are taken to equity.
In the event of the disposal of an operation, the related cumulative translation differences are recognised in the Income Statement in the period of disposal.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Group Accounts Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 88 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued of an assets fair value less costs to sell or value in use.
For the purposes 1 Accounting policies continued of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for Internally generated intangible assets which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash generating units.
An internally generated intangible asset arising from the groups software Non-financial assets, other than goodwill, that suffered impairment are and systems development is recognised only if all of the following reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
conditions are met: Trade and other receivables An asset is created that can be identified such as software or a Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount, website : less provision for impairment.
A provision is made and charged to the It is probable that the asset created will generate future economic Income Statement when there is objective evidence that the group will benefits: and not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms.
The development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
More information on impairment is included in the impairment of financial assets section below.
Internally generated intangible assets are stated at cost and amortised on a straight-line basis over the useful lives from the date the asset becomes Cash and cash equivalents usable.
Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, Cash and cash equivalents includes cash, short-term deposits and other development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in short-term highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three which it is incurred.
Other intangible assets For the purpose of the group cash flow statement, cash and cash For all other intangible assets, the group initially makes an assessment equivalents are as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
of their fair value at acquisition.
An intangible asset will be recognised as long as the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal Financial assets rights, and its fair value can be measured reliably.
The group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, Subsequent to acquisition, amortisation is charged so as to write off the and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the costs of other intangible assets over their estimated useful lives, using purpose for which the assets were acquired.
Management determines a straight-line or reducing balance method.
These intangible assets are the classification of its assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this reviewed for impairment as described below.
designation at every reporting date.
These intangibles are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and Classification impairment losses.
Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets Amortisation held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired Amortisation of intangible assets is provided on a reducing balance basis principally for the purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated or straight-line basis as appropriate over their expected useful lives at the by management.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading following rates per year: unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets if expected to be settled within 12 months: otherwise, Trademarks and brands 5 30 years they are classified as non-current.
Customer relationships 1 16 years Databases 1 22 years Licences and software 3 5 years Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or Impairment of non-financial assets determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are Assets that have an indefinite useful life for example, goodwill or included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than intangible assets not ready to use are not subject to amortisation and are 12 months after the end of the reporting period which are classified as tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are non-current assets.
The groups loans and receivables comprise trade and reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher 22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 89 89 The criteria that the group uses to determine that there is objective 1 Accounting policies continued evidence of an impairment loss include: Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either Significant financial difficulty of the issuer or obligor: designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
A breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or They are included in non-current assets unless the investment matures or principal payments: management intends to dispose of it within 12 months of the end of the The group, for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrowers reporting period.
financial difficulty, granting to the borrower a concession that the lender would not otherwise consider: Recognition and measurement It becomes probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the date financial reorganisation: on which the group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
All financial The disappearance of an active market for that financial asset assets, other than those carried at fair value through profit or loss, are because of financial difficulties: or initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs.
Observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the estimate of future cash flows from a portfolio of financial assets Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss since the initial recognition of those assets, although the decrease Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially cannot yet be identified with the individual financial assets in the recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the profit portfolio, including: and loss component of the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the financial assets at i Adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers in the portfolio: fair value through profit or loss category are included in the profit and and loss component of the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the period ii National or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults on in which they arise.
Dividend income from assets, categorised as financial the assets in the portfolio.
assets at fair value through profit or loss, is recognised in the profit and loss component of the Statement of Comprehensive Income as part of The group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists.
other income when the groups right to receive payments is established.
The amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets Loans and receivables carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted interest method.
at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The assets carrying amount is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the profit Available-for-sale financial assets and loss component of the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
If Available-for-sale financial assets are subsequently measured at fair value.
a loan has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment loss is the current effective interest rate determined under the Offsetting financial instruments contract.
As a practical expedient, the group may measure impairment on Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the basis of an instruments fair value using an observable market price.
the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or If the assets carrying amount is reduced, the amount of the loss is realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
recognised in the profit and loss component of the Statement of Impairment of financial assets Comprehensive Income.
The group assesses at each reporting period whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
A If in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a the impairment was recognised such as an improvement in the debtors result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of credit rating, the reversal of the previously recognised impairment loss the asset a loss event and that loss event or events has an impact on is recognised in the profit and loss component of the Statement of the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial Comprehensive Income.
assets that can be reliably estimated.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Group Accounts Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 90 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Cash flow hedge 1 Accounting policies continued The effective portion of gains or losses on derivatives that are designated Financial liabilities and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive Committed borrowings and bank overdrafts income within the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The ineffective Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded at the amounts portion of such gains and losses is recognised in the Income Statement received, net of direct issue costs.
Direct issue costs are amortised over the immediately.
period of the loans and overdrafts to which they relate.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption are charged to Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to the Income Statement in the Income Statement as incurred using the effective interest rate method the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the Income Statement and are added to the carrying value of the borrowings or overdraft to the for example, when the forecast transaction that is hedged takes place.
extent they are not settled in the period which they arise.
Trade payables and accruals The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps Trade payables and accruals are not interest-bearing and are stated at hedging variable rate borrowings is recognised in the Income Statement their fair value.
accordingly, the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the Income Statement immediately.
However, whenever the forecast Derivative financial instruments transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial The group uses various derivative financial instruments to manage its asset for example fixed assets, the gains and losses previously deferred in exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks, including forward equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps.
The deferred amounts are ultimately recognised in depreciation in the case of fixed assets.
All derivative instruments are recorded in the balance sheet at fair value.
The recognition of gains or losses on derivative instruments depends on When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer whether the instrument is designated as a hedge and the type of exposure meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss it is designed to hedge.
The group designates certain derivatives as either: existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Income Statement.
a hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative commitment fair value hedge : gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the b hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or Income Statement.
liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge : or The premium or discount on interest rate instruments is recognised as part c hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment of net interest payable over the period of the contract.
are accounted for on an accruals basis.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current Net investment hedge asset or liability when the derivative matures in more than 12 months, Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in the and as a current asset or liability when the derivative matures in less than same way as cash flow hedges.
Trading derivatives are classified as a current asset or liability.
Gains or losses on the qualifying part of net investment hedges are Fair value hedge recognised in other comprehensive income together with the gains and Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify losses on the underlying net investment.
The ineffective portion of such as fair value hedges are recorded in the Income Statement, together gains and losses is recognised in the Income Statement immediately.
with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The group only applies fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments that do accounting for hedging fixed asset risk on borrowings.
The gain or loss not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the Income Statement relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps hedging fixed rate as they arise.
borrowings is recognised in the Income Statement within finance costs.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the Gains and losses accumulated in equity are transferred to the Income Income Statement within operating profit.
Changes in the fair value Statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
of the hedge fixed rate borrowings attributable to interest rate risk are recognised in the Income Statement within finance costs.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 91 91 Provisions 1 Accounting policies continued A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the group has a Liabilities in respect of acquisition commitments present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is Liabilities for acquisition commitments over the remaining minority probable that economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
interests in subsidiaries are recorded in the Statement of Financial Position If material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future at their estimated discounted present value.
These discounts are unwound cash flows at a pre tax rate that reflects current market assessments of and charged to the Income Statement as notional interest over the period the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the up to the date of the potential future payment.
Taxation Pensions The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is Contributions to pension schemes in respect of current and past service, recognised in the Income Statement, except to the extent that it relates ex gratia pensions, and cost of living adjustments to existing pensions are to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
based on the advice of independent actuaries.
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at Defined contribution plans amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the group pays that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet fixed contributions into a separate non-group related entity.
to the Euromoney Pension Plan and the Metal Bulletin Group Personal Pension Plan, both defined contribution pension schemes, are charged as Deferred taxation is calculated under the provisions of IAS 12 Income an expense as they fall due.
tax and is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the accounts and the corresponding tax bases Multi-employer scheme used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using The group also participates in the Harmsworth Pension Scheme, a defined the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally benefit pension scheme which is operated by Daily Mail and General Trust recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets plc.
As there is no contractual agreement or stated policy for charging the are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be net defined benefit cost for the plan as a whole to the individual entities, available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
the group recognises an expense equal to its contributions payable in No provision is made for temporary differences on unremitted earnings the period and does not recognise any unfunded liability of this pension of foreign subsidiaries or associates where the group has control and the scheme on its balance sheet.
In other words, this scheme is treated as a reversal of the temporary difference is not foreseeable.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance Defined benefit plans sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that Defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively The group operates the Metal Bulletin Pension Scheme, a defined benefit enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in scheme.
The present value of providing benefits is determined by triennial the Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited valuations using the attained age method, with actuarial valuations being directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally period in which they occur.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities in the Statement of Financial Position represents the present value of the and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, authority and the group intends to settle its current assets and liabilities and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Group Accounts Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 92 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Earnings per share 1 Accounting policies continued The earnings per share and diluted earnings per share calculations follow Share-based payments the provisions of IAS 33 Earnings per share.
The diluted earnings per The group makes share-based payments to certain employees which are share figure is calculated by adjusting for the dilution effect of the exercise equity and cash-settled.
These payments are measured at their estimated of all ordinary share options, SAYE options and the Capital Appreciation fair value at the date of grant, calculated using an appropriate option Plan options granted by the company, but excluding the ordinary shares pricing model.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on held by the Euromoney Employees Share Ownership Trust.
a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
At the period end the vesting Exceptional items assumptions are revisited and the charge associated with the fair value of Exceptional items are items of income or expense considered by the these options updated.
For cash-settled share-based payments a liability directors, either individually or if of a similar type in aggregate, as being equal to the portion of the services received is recognised at the current either material or significant and which require additional disclosure in fair value as determined at each balance sheet date.
order to provide an indication of the underlying trading performance of the group.
Revenue Revenue represents income from advertising, subscriptions, sponsorship Segment reporting and delegate fees, net of value added tax.
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the board and executive committee members who Advertising revenues are recognised in the Income Statement on the are responsible for strategic decisions, allocating resources and assessing date of publication.
performance of the operating segments.
Subscription revenues are recognised in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the subscription.
Sponsorship and delegate revenues are recognised in the Income 2 Key judgemental areas adopted in preparing these Statement over the period the event is run.
financial statements The group prepares its group financial statements in accordance with Revenues invoiced but relating to future periods are deferred and treated International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, the application of which as deferred income in the Statement of Financial Position.
often requires judgements to be made by management when formulating Leased assets the groups financial position and results.
Under IFRS, the directors are Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership required to adopt those accounting policies most appropriate to the are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Operating groups circumstances for the purpose of presenting fairly the groups lease rentals are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
In determining and applying accounting policies, judgement is often Dividends required in respect of items where the choice of specific policy, accounting Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are estimate or assumption to be followed could materially affect the reported approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recorded results or net asset position of the group should it later be determined that in the period in which they are paid.
a different choice would have been more appropriate.
Own shares held by Employees Share Ownership Trust Management considers the accounting estimates and assumptions Transactions of the group-sponsored trust are included in the group discussed below to be its key judgemental areas and, accordingly, provides financial statements.
In particular, the trusts holdings of shares in the an explanation of each below.
Management has discussed its critical company are debited direct to equity.
accounting estimates and associated disclosures with the groups audit committee.
The discussion below should also be read in conjunction with the groups disclosure of IFRS accounting policies, which is provided in note 1.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 93 93 Acquisition commitments 2 Key judgemental areas adopted in preparing these The group is party to a number of put and call options over the remaining financial statements continued non-controlling interests in some of its subsidiaries.
IAS39 Financial Acquisitions Instruments: Recognition and Measurement requires the discounted The purchase consideration for the acquisition of a subsidiary or business present value of these acquisition commitments to be recognised as is allocated over the net fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and a liability on the Statement of Financial Position with a corresponding contingent liabilities acquired.
The discounts are unwound as a notional interest charge to the Income Statement.
Key areas of judgement in calculating Fair value the discounted present value of the commitments are the expected future Determining the fair value of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities cash flows and earnings of the business, the period remaining until the acquired requires managements judgement and often involves the use of option is exercised and the discount rate.
At September 30 2013 the significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with respect discounted present value of these acquisition commitments was 15.0 to future cash flows, recoverability of assets, and unprovided liabilities and million 2012: 7.9 million.
commitments particularly in relation to tax and VAT.
Intangible assets Share-based payments The group makes an assessment of the fair value of intangible assets The group makes long-term incentive payments to certain employees.
An intangible asset will be recognised as long as These payments are measured at their estimated fair value at the date of the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights, and grant, calculated using an appropriate option pricing model.
The fair value its fair value can be measured reliably.
determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the expected vesting period, based on the estimate of the number of shares The measurement of the fair value of intangible assets acquired requires that will eventually vest.
The key assumptions used in calculating the fair significant management judgement particularly in relation to the expected value of the options are the discount rate, the groups share price volatility, future cash flows from the acquired marketing databases which are dividend yield, risk free rate of return, and expected option lives.
generally based on managements estimate of marketing response rates, customer relationships, trademarks, brands, intellectual property, repeat These assumptions are set out in note 23.
Management regularly performs and well established events.
At September 30 2013 the net book value of a true-up of the estimate of the number of shares that are expected to intangible assets was 142.0 million 2012: 135.2 million.
vest, which is dependent on the anticipated number of leavers.
Goodwill The directors regularly reassess the expected vesting period.
A plan that Goodwill is impaired where the carrying value of goodwill is higher than vests earlier than originally estimated results in an acceleration of the the net present value of future cash flows of those cash generating units to fair value expense of the plan recognised in the Income Statement at which it relates.
Key areas of judgement in calculating the net present value the time the reassessment occurs.
Equally, a plan that vests later than are the forecast cash flows, the long-term growth rate of the applicable previously estimated results in a credit to the Income Statement at the businesses and the discount rate applied to those cash flows.
held on the Statement of Financial Position at September302013 was 356.6 million 2012: 333.1 million.
The charge for long-term incentive payments for the year ended September 30 2013 is 2.1 million 2012: 6.3 million.
Deferred consideration The group often pays for a portion of the equity acquired at a future Defined benefit pension scheme date.
This deferred consideration is contingent on the future results of the The surplus or deficit in the defined benefit pension scheme that is entity acquired and applicable payment multipliers dependent on those recognised through the Statement of Comprehensive Income is subject results.
The initial amount of the deferred consideration is recognised to a number of assumptions and uncertainties.
The calculated liabilities of as a liability in the Statement of Financial Position.
At each period end the scheme are based on assumptions regarding salary increases, inflation management reassesses the amount expected to be paid and any changes rates, discount rates, the long-term expected return on the schemes assets to the initial amount are recognised as a finance income or expense in and member longevity.
Details of the assumptions used are shown in note the Income Statement.
Significant management judgement is required 26.
Such assumptions are based on actuarial advice and are benchmarked to determine the amount of deferred consideration that is likely to be against similar pension schemes.
paid, particularly in relation to the future profitability of the acquired business.
At September 30 2013 the discounted present value of deferred consideration was 11.6 million 2012: 0.1 million.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Group Accounts Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 94 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Treasury 2 Key judgemental areas adopted in preparing these Forward contracts financial statements continued The group is exposed to foreign exchange risk in the form of transactions in Taxation foreign currencies entered into by group companies and by the translation The groups tax charge on ordinary activities is the sum of the total of the results of foreign subsidiaries into sterling for reporting purposes.
current and deferred tax charges.
The calculation of the groups total tax charge necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in The group does not hedge the translation of the results of foreign respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined subsidiaries: consequently, fluctuations in the value of sterling versus until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, as foreign currencies could materially affect the amount of these items in the appropriate, through a formal legal process.
The final resolution of some consolidated financial statements, even if their values have not changed of these items may give rise to material profit and loss and or cash flow in their original currency.
The group does endeavour to match foreign variances.
currency borrowings to investments in order to provide a natural hedge for the translation of the net assets of overseas subsidiaries.
The group is a multinational group with tax affairs in many geographical locations.
This inherently leads to a higher than usual complexity to the Subsidiaries normally do not hedge transactions in foreign currencies into groups tax structure and makes the degree of estimation and judgement the functional currency of their own operations.
However, at a group level more challenging.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control a series of US dollar and euro forward contracts is put in place up to 18 of the group and it is often dependent on the efficiency of the legislative months forward partially to hedge its US dollar and euro denominated processes in the relevant taxing jurisdictions in which the group operates.
The timing and value of these forward contracts is Issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve.
Payments in respect based on managements estimate of its future US dollar and euro revenues of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account over an 18 month period.
If management materially underestimates the and on the final resolution of open items.
As a result, there can be groups future US dollar or euro revenues this would lead to too few substantial differences between the tax charge in the Income Statement forward contracts being in place and the group being more exposed to and tax payments.
swings in US dollar and euro to sterling exchange rates.
An overestimate of the groups US dollar or euro revenues would lead to associated costs The group has certain significant open items in several tax jurisdictions in unwinding the excess forward contracts.
At September 30 2013, the and as a result the amounts recognised in the group financial statements fair value of the groups forward contracts was a net asset of 1.6 million in respect of these items are derived from the groups best estimation 2012: 2.8 million.
and judgement, as described above.
However, the inherent uncertainty regarding the outcome of these items means eventual resolution could Details of the financial instruments used are set out in note 18 to the differ from the accounting estimates and therefore affect the groups accounts.
Recognition of deferred tax assets The recognition of net deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is probable that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be available in the future, against which the reversal of temporary differences can be deducted.
Recognition, therefore, involves judgement regarding the future financial performance of the particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred tax asset has been recognised.
Historical differences between forecast and actual taxable profits have not resulted in material adjustments to the recognition of deferred tax assets.
At September 30 2013, the group had a deferred tax asset of 5.0 million 2012: 7.3 million.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 95 95 3 Segmental analysis Segmental information is presented in respect of the groups business divisions and reflects the groups management and internal reporting structure.
The group is organised into five business divisions: Financial publishing: Business publishing: Training: Conferences and seminars: and Research and data.
Financial publishing and Business publishing consist primarily of advertising and subscription revenue.
The Training division consists primarily of delegate revenue.
Conferences and seminars consist of both sponsorship income and delegate revenue.
Research and data consists of subscription revenue.
A breakdown of the groups revenue by type is set out below.
Analysis of the groups three main geographical areas is also set out to provide additional information on the trading performance of the businesses.
Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market rates and shown in the eliminations columns below.
2 Acquired intangible amortisation represents amortisation of acquisition related non-goodwill assets such as trademarks and brands, customer relationships and databases note 11.
4 Operating profit 2013 2012 000 000 Revenue 404,704 394,144 Cost of sales 104,104 98,308 Gross profit 300,600 295,836 Distribution costs 4,320 4,280 Administrative expenses 190,950 196,081 Operating profit before associates 105,330 95,475 Administrative expenses include an acquisition cost of 822,000 2012: acquisition credit of 205,000, restructuring and other exceptional costs of 1,395,000 2012:1,822,000 and a credit for negative goodwill of 4,449,000 2012: nil note 5.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Group Accounts Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 98 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4 Operating profit continued 2013 2012 Operating profit is stated after charging crediting : 000 000 Staff costs note 6 155,862 159,305 Intangible amortisation: Acquired intangible amortisation 15,890 14,782 Licences and software 301 339 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 3,926 3,408 Auditors remuneration: Group audit 829 779 Assurance services 114 95 Non-audit 166 41 Property operating lease rentals 6,910 6,405 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 53 Acquisition costs credits note 5 822 205 Restructuring and other exceptional costs note 5 1,395 1,822 Negative goodwill note 5 4,449 Foreign exchange loss 1,234 524 Audit and non-audit services relate to: 2013 2012 000 000 Group audit: Fees payable for the audit of the companys annual accounts 458 447 Fees payable for other services to the group: Audit of subsidiaries pursuant to local legislation 371 332 Audit services provided to all group companies 829 779 Assurance services: Interim review 114 95 Non-audit services: Taxation compliance services 126 28 Other taxation advisory services 37 Other services 3 13 166 41 Total group auditors remuneration 1,109 915 5 Exceptional items Exceptional items are items of income or expense considered by the directors, either individually or if of a similar type in aggregate, as being either material or significant and which require additional disclosure in order to provide an indication of the underlying trading performance of the group.
2013 2012 000 000 Acquisition costs credit 822 205 Restructuring and other exceptional costs 1,395 1,822 Negative goodwill 4,449 2,232 1,617 22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 99 99 5 Exceptional items continued In 2013 the group recognised a net exceptional credit of 2,232,000.
This comprised an exceptional credit for negative goodwill offset by acquisition costs, restructuring and other exceptional costs.
The negative goodwill of 4,449,000 arose from the valuation of the intangible assets of Quantitative Techniques, acquired for zero consideration.
The acquisition costs of 822,000 are in connection with the acquisitions of TTI Vanguard, Insider Publishing, Centre for Investor Education and Quantitative Techniques.
The exceptional restructuring and other charge of 1,395,000 includes restructuring costs to integrate the business and assets of Quantitative Techniques before the completion date and other restructuring costs across the group.
The groups tax charge includes a related tax charge of 372,000.
For the year ended September 30 2012 the group recognised an exceptional expense of 1,617,000.
This comprised an exceptional restructuring charge of 1,822,000, and acquisition costs of 94,000 offset by a credit of 299,000 following the release of previously accrued costs in relation to the acquisition of Ned Davis Research.
The groups tax charge included a related tax credit of 456,000.
6 Staff costs i Number of staff including directors and temporary staff 2013 2012 Average Average By business segment: Financial publishing 353 351 Business publishing 273 262 Conferences and seminars 280 250 Training 124 123 Research and data 827 890 Central 467 387 2,324 2,263 2013 2012 Average Average By geographical location: United Kingdom 895 806 North America 767 751 Rest of World 662 706 2,324 2,263 ii Staff costs including directors and temporary staff 2013 2012 000 000 Salaries, wages and incentives 139,866 140,203 Social security costs 11,392 10,436 Pension contributions 2,504 2,365 Long-term incentive expense 2,100 6,301 155,862 159,305 Details of directors remuneration have been disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 49.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Group Accounts Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 100 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 7 Finance income and expense 2013 2012 000 000 Finance income Interest income: Interest receivable from DMGT group undertakings 18 Interest receivable from short-term investments 233 153 Expected return on pension scheme assets note 26 1,235 1,329 Net movements in acquisition commitment values note 24 2,940 Movement in acquisition deferred consideration note 24 35 Fair value gains on financial instruments: Ineffectiveness of interest rate swaps and forward contracts 362 1,830 4,475 Finance expense Interest expense: Interest payable on committed borrowings 2,561 4,728 Interest payable on loan notes 2 9 Interest on pension scheme liabilities note 26 1,302 1,314 Net movements in acquisition commitment values note 24 1,619 Imputed interest on acquisition commitments note 24 1,269 977 Movements in acquisition deferred consideration note 24 4,721 Interest on tax 710 958 Fair value losses on financial instruments: Ineffectiveness of interest rate swaps and forward contracts 55 12,184 8,041 Net finance costs 10,354 3,566 2013 2012 000 000 Reconciliation of net finance costs in Income Statement to adjusted net finance costs Total net finance costs in Income Statement 10,354 3,566 Add back: Net movements in acquisition commitment values 1,619 2,940 Imputed interest on acquisition commitments 1,269 977 Movements in acquisition deferred consideration 4,721 35 7,609 1,998 Adjusted net finance costs 2,745 5,564 The reconciliation of net finance costs in the Income Statement has been provided since the directors consider it necessary in order to provide an indication of the adjusted net finance costs.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 101 101 8 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 2013 2012 000 000 Current tax expense UK corporation tax expense 9,732 8,229 Foreign tax expense 12,522 13,243 Adjustments in respect of prior years 540 1,294 21,714 22,766 Deferred tax expense credit Current year 1,859 2,759 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1,338 2,997 521 238 Total tax expense in Income Statement 22,235 22,528 Effective tax rate 23% 24% The adjusted effective tax rate for the year is set out below: 2013 2012 000 000 Reconciliation of tax expense in Income Statement to adjusted tax expense Total tax expense in Income Statement 22,235 22,528 Add back: Tax on intangible amortisation 5,592 5,146 Tax on exceptional items 372 456 5,220 5,602 Tax on US goodwill amortisation 4,092 6,474 Tax adjustments in respect of prior years 1,878 1,703 3,006 831 Adjusted tax expense 25,241 23,359 Adjusted profit before tax refer to the appendix to the Chairmans Statement 116,527 106,769 Adjusted effective tax rate 22% 22% The group presents the above adjusted effective tax rate to help users of this report better understand its tax charge.
In arriving at this rate, the group removes the tax effect of items which are adjusted for in arriving at the adjusted profit disclosed in the appendix to the Chairmans Statement.
However, the current tax effect of goodwill and intangible items is not removed.
The group considers that the resulting adjusted effective tax rate is more representative of its tax payable position, as the deferred tax effect on the goodwill and intangible items is not expected to crystallise.
The UK income tax expense is based on a blended rate of the UK statutory rates of corporation tax during the year to September302013 of 23.5% 2012: 25% and reflects the reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 24% to 23% from April12013 and a further reduction to 20% by April 1 2015.
This change has resulted in a deferred tax credit of 510,000 2012: 18,000 arising on the reduction in the carrying value of deferred tax liabilities reflecting the anticipated rate of tax at which those liabilities are expected to reverse.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Group Accounts Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 102 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 8 Tax on profit on ordinary activities continued The actual tax expense for the year is different from 23.5% of profit before tax for the reasons set out in the following reconciliation: 2013 2012 000 000 Profit before tax 95,260 92,368 Tax at 23.5% 2012: 25% 22,386 23,092 Factors affecting tax charge: Different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in overseas jurisdictions 2,914 3,767 Associate income reported net of tax 67 115 US state taxes 987 833 Goodwill and intangibles 38 32 Disallowable expenditure 2,629 1,325 Other items deductible for tax purposes 3,607 3,824 Tax impact of consortium relief 657 861 Deferred tax credit arising from changes in tax laws 510 18 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1,878 1,703 Total tax expense for the year 22,235 22,528 In addition to the amount charged to the Income Statement, the following amounts relating to tax have been directly recognised in other comprehensive income and equity: Other comprehensive income Equity 2013 2012 2013 2012 000 000 000 000 Current tax 602 2,058 Deferred tax note 21 197 1,329 551 197 727 2,609 9 Dividends 2013 2012 000 000 Amounts recognisable as distributable to equity holders in period Final dividend for the year ended September 30 2012 of 14.75p 2011: 12.50p 18,342 15,162 Interim dividend for year ended September 30 2013 of 7.00p 2012: 7.00p 8,827 8,643 27,169 23,805 Employees Share Ownership Trust dividend 13 11 27,156 23,794 Proposed final dividend for the year ended September 30 19,917 18,342 Employees Share Ownership Trust dividend 9 9 19,908 18,333 The proposed final dividend of 15.75p 2012: 14.75p is subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on January 30 2014 and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements in accordance with IAS 10 Events after the balance sheet date.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 103 103 10 Earnings per share 2013 2012 000 000 Basic earnings attributable to equity holders of the parent 72,623 69,672 Acquired intangible amortisation 15,890 14,782 Exceptional items 2,232 1,617 Imputed interest on acquisition commitments 1,269 977 Net movements in acquisition commitment values 1,619 2,940 Movements in acquisition deferred consideration 4,721 35 Tax on the above adjustments 5,220 5,602 Tax on US goodwill amortisation 4,092 6,474 Tax adjustments in respect of prior years 1,878 1,703 Adjusted earnings 90,884 83,242 2013 2013 2012 2012 Basic Diluted Basic Diluted earnings earnings earnings earnings per share per share per share per share Number Number Number Number 000s 000s 000s 000s Weighted average number of shares 125,532 125,532 122,859 122,859 Shares held by the Employees Share Ownership Trust 59 59 59 59 Weighted average number of shares 125,473 125,473 122,800 122,800 Effect of dilutive share options 2,605 3,490 Diluted weighted average number of shares 128,078 126,290 22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Group Accounts Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 104 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 10 Earnings per share continued Basic Diluted Basic Diluted pence pence pence pence per share per share per share per share Basic earnings per share 57.88 57.88 56.74 56.74 Effect of dilutive share options 1.18 1.57 Diluted earnings per share 56.70 55.17 Effect of acquired intangible amortisation 12.66 12.41 12.04 11.70 Effect of exceptional items 1.78 1.74 1.32 1.28 Effect of imputed interest on acquisition commitments 1.01 0.99 0.80 0.77 Effect of net movement in acquisition commitment values 1.29 1.26 2.39 2.33 Effect of movements in acquisition deferred consideration 3.76 3.69 0.03 0.03 Effect of tax on the above adjustments 4.15 4.07 4.57 4.43 Effect of tax on US goodwill amortisation 3.26 3.19 5.27 5.13 Effect of tax adjustments in respect of prior years 1.50 1.47 1.39 1.35 Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share 72.43 70.96 67.79 65.91 The adjusted diluted earnings per share figure has been disclosed since the directors consider it necessary in order to give an indication of the underlying trading performance.
All of the above earnings per share figures relate to continuing operations.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 11 Goodwill and other intangibles continued Intangible assets, other than goodwill, have a finite life and are amortised over their expected useful lives at the rates set out in the accounting policies in note 1 of this report.
The carrying amounts of acquired intangible assets and goodwill by business are as follows: Acquired intangible assets Goodwill 2013 2012 2013 2012 000 000 000 000 CEIC 2,282 2,456 12,988 13,025 Internet Securities 8,383 8,406 MIS 2,543 2,550 Petroleum Economist 236 236 Gulf Publishing 4,710 4,723 HedgeFund Intelligence 14,718 14,718 Information Management Network 2,872 3,199 29,160 29,243 MAR 35 44 185 185 BCA 56,558 62,780 142,780 143,187 Metal Bulletin publishing businesses 22,140 24,590 52,710 52,710 FOW 196 196 Total Derivatives 1,938 2,292 8,180 8,180 TelCap 2,210 2,379 10,448 10,448 Benchmark Financials 203 234 455 456 Structured Retail Products 2,607 2,801 4,794 4,794 NDR 30,030 33,346 35,848 35,951 Global Grain Geneva 930 1,098 4,247 4,048 TTI Vanguard 2,407 2,844 Insider Publishing 9,068 15,280 Centre for Investor Education 4,183 5,860 Quantitative Techniques 4,572 Other 9 9 Total 142,035 135,219 356,574 333,065 Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units businesses that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
During the year the goodwill in respect of each of the above businesses was tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets.
The methodology applied to the value in use calculations, reflecting past experience and external sources of information, included: forecasts by business based on pre-tax cash flows for the next four years derived from approved 2013 budgets.
Management believes these budgets to be reasonably achievable: subsequent cash flows for one additional year increased in line with growth expectations of the applicable business: the pre-tax discount rates between 9.5% and 11.1%, derived from the companies weighted average cost of capital WACC of 9.5%, adjusted for risks specific to the nature of CGUs and risks included within the cash flows themselves: long-term nominal growth rate of 0%.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 107 107 11 Goodwill and other intangibles continued Further disclosures in accordance with IAS 36 are provided where the group holds an individual goodwill item relating to a CGU that is significant, which the group considers to be 15% of the total net book value, in comparison with the groups total carrying value of goodwill.
The only significant item of goodwill included in the net book value above relates to BCA.
Using the above methodology and a pre-tax discount rate of 9.5% the recoverable amount exceeded the total carrying value by 136.2million.
For this business the directors performed a sensitivity analysis on the total carrying value of the CGU.
For the recoverable amount to be equal to the carrying value the discount rate would need to be increased by 9.3% or the long-term growth rate reduced by 24.8%.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 12 Property, plant and equipment continued Freehold Long-term Short-term land and leasehold leasehold Office buildings premises premises equipment Total 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 000 000 000 000 000 Cost At October 1 2011 6,447 3,251 15,539 19,603 44,840 Additions 25 307 1,333 1,665 Disposals 49 844 893 Acquisitions 176 246 422 Exchange differences 28 221 560 809 At September 30 2012 6,447 3,072 15,576 19,286 44,381 Depreciation At October 1 2011 283 561 8,309 15,297 24,450 Charge for the year 83 131 1,064 2,130 3,408 Disposals 49 789 838 Exchange differences 13 150 458 621 At September 30 2012 366 679 9,174 16,180 26,399 Net book value at September 30 2012 6,081 2,393 6,402 3,106 17,982 Net book value at September 30 2011 6,164 2,690 7,230 4,306 20,390 The directors do not consider the market value of freehold land and buildings to be significantly different from its book value.
13 Investments Investments Investments in associated in associated undertakings undertakings 2013 2012 000 000 At October 1 735 Additions 567 Fair value adjustment 49 Share of profits after tax retained 284 459 Dividends 268 291 At September 30 702 735 Associated undertakings The associated undertakings at September 30 2013 were Capital NET Limited, whose principal activity is the provision of electronic database services, and GGA Pte.
Limited whose principal activity is the provision of events for grain industry professionals in the Asia-Pacific region.
The group has a 48.4% 2012: 48.4% interest in Capital NET Limited and a 50% 2012: 50% interest in GGA Pte.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 109 109 13 Investments continued Capital NET Limited does not have a coterminous year end with the group.
The total assets, liabilities, revenues and profit after tax generated by Capital NET Limited from its latest available audited accounts at December 31 are set out below: Dec 31 Dec 31 2012 2011 000 000 Total assets 749 603 Total liabilities 249 224 Total revenues 2,032 2,035 Profit after tax 722 733 The total assets, liabilities, revenues and profit after tax generated by GGA Pte.
Limited at September 30 are set out below: 2013 2012 000 000 Total assets 219 172 Total liabilities 59 55 Total revenues 282 327 Profit after tax 38 119 Assets available for sale The group has a 50% interest in Capital DATA Limited Capital DATA.
The ordinary share capital of Capital DATA is divided into 50 A shares and 50 B shares with the group owning the 50 A shares.
Under the terms of the Articles of Association of Capital DATA, the A shares held by the group do not carry entitlement to any share of dividends or other distribution of profits of Capital DATA.
The group does not have the ability to exercise significant influence nor is it involved in the day-to-day running of Capital DATA.
As such the investment in Capital DATA is accounted for as an asset availablefor-sale with a carrying value of nil 2012: nil.
Under a separate licence agreement the group is entitled to 28.2% of Capital DATAs revenues being 5,361,000 in the year 2012: 5,065,000.
At December 31 2012, based on its latest available audited accounts, Capital DATA had 229,000 of issued share capital and reserves December 31 2011: 515,000, and its profit for the year then ended was 708,000 December 31 2011: 1,026,000.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Group Accounts Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 110 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 13 Investments continued Details of the company and its principal subsidiary undertakings included in these consolidated financial statements at September 30 2013 are as follows: Proportion Principal activity Country of held and operation incorporation Company Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC n a Investment holding company United Kingdom Direct investments Euromoney Institutional Investor Jersey Limited 100% Publishing Jersey Euromoney Institutional Investor Ventures Limited 100% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Canada Limited 57.2% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Canada Finance Limited 100% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Jersey Limited 100% Investment holding company Jersey Fantfoot Limited 100% Investment holding company United Kingdom Indirect investments Adhesion Group SA 100% Events France BCA Research, Inc. 100% Research and data services Canada BPR Benchmark Limitada 100% Information services Colombia Carlcroft Limited 99.7% Publishing United Kingdom Centre for Investor Education UK Limited 75% Investment holding company United Kingdom Centre for Investor Education Pty Limited 75% Events Australia CEIC Holdings Limited 100% Information services Hong Kong Coaltrans Conferences Limited 99.7% Events United Kingdom EII Holdings, Inc. 100% Investment holding company US EII US, Inc. 100% Investment holding company US Euromoney Canada Limited 42.8% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Charles Limited 100% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Consortium Limited 99.7% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Consortium 2 Limited 99.7% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Holdings US, Inc. 100% Investment holding company US Euromoney Partnership LLP 100% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Singapore Pte Limited 100% Events Singapore Euromoney Trading Limited 99.7% Publishing, training and events United Kingdom Euromoney Training, Inc. 100% Training US Euromoney, Inc. 100% Training and events US EIMN, LLC 100% Events US Glenprint Limited 99.7% Publishing United Kingdom Global Commodities Group Sarl 100% Events Switzerland GSCS Benchmarks Limited 99.7% Publishing United Kingdom Gulf Publishing Company, Inc. 100% Publishing US HedgeFund Intelligence Limited 99.7% Publishing United Kingdom Insider Publishing Limited 99.7% Publishing United Kingdom Institutional Investor LLC 100% Publishing and events US Internet Securities, Inc. 100% Information services US Latin American Financial Publications, Inc. 100% Publishing US Metal Bulletin Holdings LLC 100% Investment holding company US Metal Bulletin Limited 99.7% Publishing and events United Kingdom MIS Training UK Limited 100% Training and events United Kingdom Ned Davis Research Inc. 84.5% Research and data services US Structured Retail Products Limited 98.9% Information services United Kingdom TelCap Limited 99.7% Publishing United Kingdom The Petroleum Economist Limited 99.7% Publishing United Kingdom Tipall Limited 100% Property holding United Kingdom Total Derivatives Limited 99.7% Publishing United Kingdom TTI Technologies LLC 87.2% Events US Associates Capital NET Limited 48.4% Databases United Kingdom GGA Pte.
Limited 50% Events Singapore All holdings are of ordinary shares.
In addition to the above, the group has a small number of branches outside the United Kingdom.
100% preference shares held in addition.
Euromoney Institutional Investor Jersey Limiteds principal country of operation is Hong Kong.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 111 111 13 Investments continued For the year ended September 30 2013, the following subsidiary undertakings of the group were exempt from the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the audit of individual accounts by virtue of section 479A of the Companies Act 2006: Company Company registration number Euromoney Canada Limited 01974125 Euromoney Charles Limited 04082590 Euromoney Institutional Investor Ventures Limited 05885797 Euromoney Partnership LLP OC363064 Fantfoot Limited 05503274 Internet Securities Limited 02976791 14 Acquisitions Purchase of new business TTI Technologies, LLC TTI Vanguard On December 21 2012, the group acquired 87.2% of the equity of TTI Vanguard, a US-based private membership organisation for executives who lead technology innovation in global organisations, for US$8,063,000 5,031,000 followed by a working capital adjustment of 91,000 in June 2013.
The acquisition of TTI Vanguard is consistent with the groups strategy of acquiring high-quality events businesses and accelerating their growth globally.
The remaining 12.8% equity holding will be acquired in two instalments of 7.4% in March 2014 based on a pre-determined multiple of the profits for the year to December 31 2013, and 5.4% in March 2015 based on a pre-determined multiple of the profits for the year to December 31 2014.
The total discounted amount that the group expects to pay at September 30 2013 under the earn-out agreement is US$678,000 418,000 calculated using the groups WACC.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Group Accounts Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 112 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 14 Acquisitions continued Purchase of new business continued TTI Technologies, LLC TTI Vanguard continued The acquisition accounting is provisional pending final determination of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired.
During the year changes have been made to the cash payable following changes in the working capital calculation and the accounting policy alignment of property, plant and equipment.
Following these true-up adjustments, the related goodwill, fair value of net assets acquired and consideration are set out as follows: Provisional Provisional fair value fair value Fair value March 31 Sept 30 Book value adjustments 2013 Change 2013 000 000 000 000 000 Net assets: Intangible assets 2,900 2,900 2,900 Property, plant and equipment 5 5 5 Trade and other receivables 497 497 497 Cash and cash equivalents 1,176 1,176 1,176 Trade and other payables 1,715 1,715 303 2,018 37 2,900 2,863 308 2,555 Non-controlling interest 366 39 327 Net assets acquired 87% 2,497 269 2,228 Goodwill 2,534 360 2,894 Total consideration 5,031 91 5,122 Consideration satisfied by: Cash 5,031 5,031 Working capital adjustment 91 91 5,031 91 5,122 Net cash outflow arising on acquisition: Cash consideration 5,031 Less: cash and cash equivalent balances acquired 1,176 3,855 Intangible assets represent brands of US$3,189,000 1,990,000 and customer relationships of US$1,460,000 910,000, for which amortisation of 484,000 has been charged in the year.
The brands and customer relationships will be amortised over their useful economic lives of up to 20 years and ten years respectively.
Goodwill arises from the anticipated profitability and future operating synergies from combining the acquired operations within the group.
All of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 113 113 14 Acquisitions continued Purchase of new business continued TTI Technologies, LLC TTI Vanguard continued The fair value of the assets acquired includes trade receivables of US$763,000 476,000, all of which are contracted and expected to be collectable.
The non-controlling interest recognised on acquisition of 327,000 represents the proportionate share of the net assets acquired.
TTI Vanguard contributed 2,028,000 to the groups revenue, 488,000 to the groups operating profit and 308,000 to the groups profit after tax for the period between the date of acquisition and September 30 2013.
In addition, acquisition related costs of 97,000 were incurred and recognised as an exceptional item in the Income Statement for the year ended September 30 2013 note 5.
If the above acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, TTI Vanguard would have contributed 2,739,000 to the groups revenue for the year and 631,000 to the groups adjusted profit before tax for the year excluding exceptional costs above.
Following a sensitivity analysis of the remaining interest applying reasonably possible assumptions and a 10% change in expected profits, the potential undiscounted amount of all future payments that the group could be required to make under this earn-out arrangement is between 406,000 and 497,000.
The maximum amount payable for 100% of TTI Vanguard is US$15,000,000 9,263,000. Insider Publishing On March 19 2013, the group acquired 100% of the equity share capital of Insider Publishing Limited, a leading information source and events provider for the international insurance and reinsurance markets, for an initial cash consideration of 14,148,000, followed by a working capital adjustment of 2,549,000 in June 2013.
The acquisition is consistent with the groups strategy of investing in specialist online information businesses and using its global reach to drive further growth.
At acquisition a discounted deferred consideration of 8,342,000 was recognised.
In May 2013, deferred consideration of 251,000 was paid and the remaining discounted deferred consideration of 8,091,000 was expected to be paid between March 2014 and March 2015 dependent upon the audited results of the business for the average of the 2013 and 2014 calendar years.
The discounted expected payment under this mechanism increased to 11,081,000 at September 30 2013 resulting in a charge to the Income Statement of 2,990,000.
At the date of acquisition, 2,400,000 of the expected deferred consideration was paid in advance into escrow.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Group Accounts Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 114 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 14 Acquisitions continued Purchase of new business continued Insider Publishing continued The acquisition accounting is provisional pending final determination of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired.
During the year changes have been made to the cash payable following changes in the working capital calculation, net assets acquired following the finalisation of the valuation model and forecasts as of the date of acquisition, and deferred consideration to reflect the updated forecasts.
Following these true-up adjustments, the related goodwill, fair value of net assets acquired and consideration are set out as follows: Provisional Provisional fair value fair value Fair value March 31 Sept 30 Book value adjustments 2013 Change 2013 000 000 000 000 000 Net assets: Intangible assets 9,377 9,377 1,362 10,739 Property, plant and equipment 14 14 Trade and other receivables 644 644 Cash and cash equivalents 3,485 3,485 51 3,536 Trade and other payables 3,485 3,485 566 2,919 Deferred tax liabilities 2,157 2,157 98 2,255 7,220 7,220 2,539 9,759 Net assets acquired 100% 7,220 2,539 9,759 Goodwill 13,493 1,787 15,280 Total consideration 20,713 4,326 25,039 Consideration satisfied by: Cash 14,148 14,148 Working capital adjustment 2,549 2,549 Deferred consideration 6,565 1,777 8,342 20,713 4,326 25,039 Net cash outflow arising on acquisition: Cash consideration 14,148 Less: cash and cash equivalent balances acquired 3,536 10,612 Intangible assets represent brands of 3,259,000 and customer relationships of 7,480,000, for which amortisation of 1,672,000 has been charged in the year.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 115 115 14 Acquisitions continued Purchase of new business continued Insider Publishing continued Goodwill arises from the anticipated profitability and future operating synergies from combining the acquired operations within the group.
The goodwill recognised is not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The fair value of the assets acquired includes trade receivables of 494,000, all of which are contracted and expected to be collectable.
Insider Publishing contributed 3,052,000 to the groups revenue, 1,528,000 to the groups operating profit and 1,155,000 to the groups profit after tax for the period between the date of acquisition and September 30 2013.
In addition, acquisition related costs of 301,000 were incurred and recognised as an exceptional item in the Income Statement for the year ended September 30 2013 note 5.
If the above acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, Insider Publishing would have contributed 5,300,000 to the groups revenue for the year and 2,432,000 to the groups adjusted profit before tax for the year excluding exceptional costs above.
The discounted deferred consideration is based on a pre-determined multiple of the average results of the business for the period to December 31 2013 and 2014 and is calculated using the groups WACC.
Following a sensitivity analysis of the deferred consideration applying reasonably possible assumptions and a 10% change in expected profits, the potential undiscounted amount of all future payments, including the amount paid into escrow, that the group could be required to make under this deferred consideration arrangement is between 9,831,000 and 15,215,000.
The maximum amount payable for 100% of Insider Publishing is 31,000,000.
Centre for Investor Education CIE On April 18 2013, the group acquired 75% of the trade and assets of CIE, a leading Australian provider of investment forums for senior executives of superannuation funds and global asset management firms, for A$10,800,000 7,415,000 offset by a working capital adjustment receipt of 929,000 in July 2013.
By combining CIE with the expertise and relationships of Institutional Investors forums and memberships, the group expects to consolidate its leading position in the global asset management events sector.
A discounted deferred consideration of A$5,586,000 3,835,000 was expected to be paid between March 2014 and March 2015 dependent upon the audited results of the business for the 2013 and 2014 calendar years.
The expected payment under this mechanism increased to A$8,737,000 5,044,000 at September 30 2013 resulting in a charge to the Income Statement of 1,209,000.
In April 2013, A$3,600,000 2,472,000 of the deferred consideration was paid in advance into escrow.
The remaining 25% interest in the trade and assets of CIE will be acquired in two equal instalments based on the profits for the calendar years to 2014 and 2015.
The total discounted amount that the group expects to pay at September 30 2013 under this earn-out agreement is A$7,315,000 4,224,000.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Group Accounts Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 116 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 14 Acquisitions continued Purchase of new business continued Centre for Investor Education CIE continued The acquisition accounting is set out below and is provisional pending final determination of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired: Fair value Provisional Book value adjustments fair value 000 000 000 Net assets: Goodwill 1,727 1,727 Intangible assets 5,168 5,168 Property, plant and equipment 10 10 Trade and other receivables 598 598 Cash and cash equivalents 911 911 Trade and other payables 2,566 2,566 Deferred tax liabilities 188 188 680 3,619 4,299 Non-controlling interest 1,075 Net assets acquired 75% 3,224 Goodwill 7,097 Total consideration 10,321 Consideration satisfied by: Cash 7,415 Working capital adjustment 929 Deferred consideration 3,835 10,321 Net cash outflow arising on acquisition: Cash consideration 7,415 Less: cash and cash equivalent balances acquired 911 6,504 Intangible assets represent brands of A$5,548,000 3,809,000 and customer relationships of A$1,980,000 1,359,000, for which amortisation of 178,000 has been charged in the year.
The brands and customer relationships will be amortised over their useful economic lives of up to 15 years and ten years respectively.
The fair value of the assets acquired includes trade receivables of A$804,000 552,000, all of which are contracted and expected to be collectable.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 117 117 14 Acquisitions continued Purchase of new business continued Centre for Investor Education CIE continued The non-controlling interest recognised on acquisition of 1,075,000 represents the proportionate share of the net assets acquired.
CIE contributed 1,119,000 to the groups revenue, 575,000 to the groups operating profit and 454,000 to the groups profit after tax for the period between date of acquisition and September 30 2013.
In addition, acquisition related costs of 157,000 were incurred and recognised as an exceptional item in the Income Statement for the year ended September 30 2013 note 5.
If the above acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, CIE would have contributed 2,685,000 to the groups revenue for the year and 1,275,000 to the groups adjusted profit before tax for the year excluding exceptional costs above.
The discounted deferred consideration is based on a pre-determined multiple of the results of the business for the period to December 31 2013 and is calculated using the groups WACC.
Following a sensitivity analysis for the fair value of the deferred consideration applying reasonably possible assumptions and a 10% change in expected profits, the potential undiscounted amount of all future payments, including the amount paid into escrow, that the group could be required to make under this deferred consideration arrangement is between 4,156,000 and 6,466,000.
Following a sensitivity analysis of the remaining interest applying reasonably possible assumptions and a 10% change in expected profits, the potential undiscounted amount of all future payments that the group could be required to make under this earn-out arrangement is between 4,486,000 and 5,483,000.
Quantitative Techniques QT On April 3 2013, the group signed a binding agreement with HSBC to acquire its QT operation for 1.
QT is the benchmark and calculation agent business of HSBC Bank plc and creates and maintains more than 100 equity and bond indices for HSBCs Global Markets division as well as over 60 external clients.
Completion of the sale took place on September 30 2013 after a transition phase.
HSBC has agreed to purchase index calculation services from QT for a minimum period of three years from the date of completion.
The group believes the acquisition creates an opportunity to establish a significant footprint in the index compilation market.
The business has been rebranded Euromoney Indices.
The acquisition accounting is set out below and is provisional pending final determination of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired: Fair value Provisional Book value adjustments fair value 000 000 000 Net assets: Intangible assets 4,572 4,572 Trade and other receivables 447 447 Trade and other payables 554 16 570 107 4,556 4,449 Net assets acquired 100% 4,449 Negative goodwill 4,449 Total consideration Intangible assets represent trademarks of 1,203,000 and customer relationships of 3,369,000, for which no amortisation has been charged in the year.
The trademarks and customer relationships will be amortised over their useful economic lives of up to 20 years and ten years respectively.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements Gr Group Accounts oup Accounts Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 118 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 14 Acquisitions continued Purchase of new business continued Quantitative Techniques QT continued Negative goodwill arose from the valuation of intangible assets acquired for zero consideration.
The negative goodwill is credited to the Income Statement within exceptional items note 5 and is expected to be taxable for income tax purposes.
As the acquisition of QT was completed on the last day of the financial year it did not contribute to the groups revenue or profit.
Acquisition related costs of 215,000 and restructuring costs of 581,000 were incurred and recognised as an exceptional item in the Income Statement for the year ended September 30 2013 note 5.
Due to the nature of the operation acquired it is not possible to provide the contribution to the groups revenue and adjusted profit before tax.
Increase in equity holdings Internet Securities, Inc. ISI The group held a call option to enable it to purchase the remaining non-controlling interest in ISI and this was exercised in January 2013.
The option value was based on the valuation of ISI as determined under a methodology provided by an independent financial adviser.
Under the terms of the option agreement consideration caps had been put in place that required the maximum consideration payable to option holders to be capped at an amount such that the results of any relevant class tests would, at the relevant time, fall below the requirement for shareholder approval.
In March 2013, under this call option mechanism, the group purchased the remaining 0.08% of the equity share capital of ISI for a cash consideration of US$102,000 67,000, increasing the groups equity shareholding in ISI to 100%.
Structured Retail Products Limited SRP In April 2013, the group purchased 0.76% of the equity share capital of SRP from some its employees for a cash consideration of 86,000, representing the fair value of 0.76% of assets at date of acquisition, increasing the groups equity shareholding in SRP to 98.94%.
15 Trade and other receivables 2013 2012 000 000 Amounts falling due within one year Trade receivables 59,712 54,146 Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables 5,846 6,471 Trade receivables net of provision 53,866 47,675 Amounts owed by DMGT group undertakings 47 2,344 Other debtors 7,436 5,560 Prepayments 12,153 6,904 Accrued income 5,743 3,469 79,245 65,952 The average credit period on sales of goods and services is 30 days.
Trade receivables beyond 60 days overdue are provided for based on estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods and services, determined by reference to past default experience.
Credit terms for customers are determined in individual territories.
Concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables is limited due to the groups customer base being large and diverse.
Due to this, management believes there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the normal provision for doubtful receivables.
There are no customers who represent more than 5% of the total balance of trade receivables.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 119 119 15 Trade and other receivables continued As of September 30 2013, trade receivables of 20,879,000 2012: 15,469,000 were past due for which the group has not provided as there has been no significant change in their credit quality and the amounts are still considered recoverable.
These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
The average age of these receivables is 73 days 2012: 77 days.
The group does not hold any collateral over these balances.
The ageing of these trade receivables is as follows: 2013 2012 000 000 Past due less than a month 10,579 7,156 Past due more than a month but less than two months 4,666 3,348 Past due more than two months but less than three months 2,395 1,985 Past due more than three months 3,239 2,980 20,879 15,469 As at September 30 2013, trade receivables of 6,814,000 2012: 14,414,000 were impaired and partially provided for.
It was assessed that a portion of the receivables is expected to be recovered.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: 2013 2012 000 000 Past due less than a month 1,525 7,713 Past due more than a month but less than two months 1,276 2,857 Past due more than two months but less than three months 682 1,123 Past due more than three months 3,331 2,721 6,814 14,414 Movements on the group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2013 2012 000 000 At October 1 6,471 7,697 Impairment losses recognised 2,981 3,271 Impairment losses reversed 2,842 3,266 Amounts written off as uncollectable 750 1,153 Exchange differences 14 78 At September 30 5,846 6,471 In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date.
The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large and unrelated.
Accordingly, the directors believe that there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts.
The allowance for doubtful debts does not include individually impaired trade receivables which have been placed under liquidation as these trade receivables are written off directly to the Income Statement.
Prepayments at September 30 2013 includes deferred consideration of 4,479,000 paid in advance into escrow following the acquisitions of Insider Publishing 2,400,000 and CIE A$3,600,000 2,079,000 note 14.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements Gr Group Accounts oup Accounts Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 120 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 16 Trade and other payables 2013 2012 000 000 Trade creditors 4,046 4,170 Amounts owed to DMGT group undertakings 44 3 Other creditors 22,751 23,450 26,841 27,623 The directors consider the carrying amounts of trade and other payables approximate their fair values.
17 Deferred income 2013 2012 000 000 Deferred subscription income 90,401 81,020 Other deferred income 26,895 24,086 117,296 105,106 18 Financial instruments and risk management 2013 2012 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 000 000 000 000 Current Interest rate swaps fair value through profit and loss 156 Interest rate swaps cash flow hedge 283 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedge 1,736 909 2,715 217 1,736 909 2,715 656 Non-current Interest rate swaps fair value through profit and loss 206 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedge 746 296 35 746 296 241 2,482 909 3,011 897 Financial risk management objectives The groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk, cash flow interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk arising in the normal course of business.
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates but are not employed for speculative purposes.
Full details of the objectives, policies and strategies pursued by the group in relation to financial risk management are set out on pages 88 to 91 of the accounting policies and pages 92 to 94 of the key judgemental areas.
In summary, the groups tax and treasury committee normally meets twice a year and is responsible for recommending policy to the board.
The groups treasury policies are directed to giving greater certainty of future costs and revenues and ensuring that the group has adequate liquidity for working capital and debt capacity for funding acquisitions.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 121 121 18 Financial instruments and risk management continued The treasury department does not act as a profit centre, nor does it undertake any speculative trading activity and it operates within policies and procedures approved by the board.
Interest rate swaps are used to manage the groups exposure to fluctuations in interest rates on its floating rate borrowings.
Further details are set out in the interest rate risk section on page 124.
Forward contracts are used to manage the groups exposure to fluctuations in exchange rate movements.
Further details are set out in the foreign exchange rate risk section on page 122.
Capital risk management The group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The groups overall strategy remains unchanged from 2012.
The capital structure of the group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 19, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising share capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
Net debt to EBITDA ratio The groups tax and treasury committee reviews the groups capital structure at least twice a year.
As part of the debt covenants under the loan facility provided by Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT, the board has to ensure that net debt to a rolling 12 month EBITDA does not exceed four times.
The group expects to be able to remain within these limits during the life of the facility.
The net debt to EBITDA covenant is defined to allow the rate used in the translation of US dollar EBITDA, including hedging contracts, to be used also in the calculation of net debt, thereby removing any distortion to the covenant from increases in net debt due to short-term movements in the US dollar.
The groups loan facility with DMGT was due to mature on December 31 2013.
Subsequent to the year end, the group has signed a US$160million multi-currency replacement facility with DMGT that provides access to funds, should the group require it during the period to April 2016.
The new facility requires the groups net debt to EBITDA to be no more than three times.
The net debt to EBITDA ratio at September 30 is as follows: 2013 2012 000 000 Committed loan facility at weighted average exchange rate 20,858 43,127 Loan notes 1,028 1,228 Total debt 21,886 44,355 Cash and cash equivalents 11,268 13,544 Net debt 10,618 30,811 EBITDA 123,499 116,080 Net debt to EBITDA ratio 0.09 0.27 EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation adjusted operating profit before depreciation and amortisation of licences and software, adjusted for the timing impact of acquisitions and disposals.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements Gr Group Accounts oup Accounts Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 122 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18 Financial instruments and risk management continued Categories of financial instruments The groups financial assets and liabilities at September 30 are as follows: 2013 2012 000 000 Financial assets Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 2,482 3,011 Prepaid deferred consideration note 24 4,479 Loans and receivables including cash and cash equivalents 78,360 72,592 85,321 75,603 Financial liabilities Derivative instruments fair value through profit and loss 362 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 909 535 Acquisition commitments note 24 15,037 7,868 Deferred consideration note 24 16,125 77 Loans and payables including overdrafts 103,862 140,284 135,933 149,126 The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities above are classified as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy other than acquisition commitments and deferred consideration which are classified as level 3 page 129. i Market price risk Market price risk is the possibility that changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates or commodity prices will adversely affect the value of the groups financial assets, liabilities or expected future cash flows.
The groups primary market risks are interest rate fluctuations and exchange rate movements.
Derivatives are used to hedge or reduce the risks of interest rate and exchange rate movements and are not entered into unless such risks exist.
Derivatives used by the group for hedging a particular risk are not specialised and are generally available from numerous sources.
The fair values of interest rate swaps and forward exchange contracts are set out in this note and represent the value for which an asset could be sold or liability settled between knowledgeable willing parties in an arms length transaction calculated using the market rates of interest and exchange at September 30 2013.
The group has no other material market price risks.
Market risk exposures are measured using sensitivity analysis.
There has been no change to the groups exposure to market risks or the manner in which it manages and measures the risks during the year.
ii Foreign exchange rate risk The groups principal foreign exchange exposure is to US dollar.
The group generates approximately two-thirds of its revenues in US dollars, including approximately 30% of the revenues in its UK-based businesses, and approximately 60% of its operating profits are US dollar-denominated.
The group is therefore exposed to foreign exchange risk on the US dollar revenues in its UK businesses, the translation of results of foreign subsidiaries and external loans as well as loans to foreign operations within the group where the denomination of the loan is not in the functional currency of the lender borrower.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 123 123 18 Financial instruments and risk management continued The carrying amounts of the groups US dollar-denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the reporting date are as follows: Assets Liabilities 2013 2012 2013 2012 000 000 000 000 US dollar 55,767 58,770 8,702 5,956 Subsidiaries normally do not hedge transactions in foreign currencies into the functional currency of their own operations.
However, at a group level, a series of US dollar and euro forward contracts are put in place to sell forward surplus US dollars and euros so as to hedge 80% of the groups UK based US dollar and euro revenues for the coming 12 months and 50% of the groups UK based US dollar and euro revenues for the subsequent six months.
The timing and value of these forward contracts is based on managements estimate of its future US dollar and euro revenues over an 18 month period and is regularly reviewed and revised with any changes in estimates resulting in either additional forward contracts being taken out or existing contracts maturity dates being moved forward or back.
If management materially underestimates the groups future US dollar and euro denominated revenues, this would lead to too few forward contracts being in place and the group being more exposed to swings in US dollar and euro to sterling exchange rates.
An overestimate of the groups US dollar and euro denominated revenues would lead to associated costs in unwinding the excess forward contracts.
The group also has a significant operation in Canada whose revenues are mainly in US dollars.
At a group level a series of US dollar forward contracts is put in place up to 18 months forward to hedge the operations Canadian cost base.
In addition, each subsidiary is encouraged to invoice sales in its local functional currency where possible.
Forward exchange contracts are gross settled at maturity.
The following table details the groups sensitivity to a 10% increase and decrease in sterling against US dollar.
A 10% sensitivity has been determined by the board as the sensitivity rate appropriate when reporting an estimated foreign currency risk internally and represents managements assessment of a reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates at the reporting date.
The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 10% change in foreign currency rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes external loans as well as loans to foreign operations within the group where the denomination of the loan is not in the functional currency of the lender borrower.
Where sterling strengthens 10% against the relevant currency a positive number below indicates an increase in profit and equity.
For a 10% weakening of sterling against the relevant currency, there would be an equal and opposite impact on the profit and other equity, and the balances below would be negative.
Impact of 10% strengthening of sterling against US dollar 2013 2012 000 000 Change in profit for the year in income statement US$ net assets in UK companies 542 646 Change in equity derivative financial instruments 6,417 6,606 Change in equity external loans and loans to foreign operations 3,134 4,105 The decrease in the loss from the sensitivity analysis is due to a decrease in the working capital asset position.
The fall in equity from 6,606,000 to 6,417,000 from the sensitivity analysis is due to the decrease of the value of the derivative financial assets.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements Gr Group Accounts oup Accounts Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 124 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18 Financial instruments and risk management continued The group is also exposed to the translation of the results of its US dollar-denominated businesses, although the group does not hedge the translation of these results.
Consequently, fluctuations in the value of sterling versus other currencies could materially affect the translation of these results in the consolidated financial statements.
The group endeavours to match foreign currency borrowings to investments in order to provide a natural hedge for the translation of the net assets of overseas subsidiaries with the related foreign currency interest cost arising from these borrowings providing a partial hedge against the translation of foreign currency profits.
The change in equity from a 10% change in sterling against US dollars in relation to the translation of external loans and loans to foreign operations within the group where the denomination of the loan is not in the functional currency of the lender borrower would result in a change of 3,134,000 2012: 4,105,000.
However, the change in equity is completely offset by the change in value of the foreign operations net assets from their translation into sterling.
Forward foreign exchange contracts It is the policy of the group to enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to cover specific foreign currency payments and receipts.
A series of US dollar and euro forward contracts are put in place to sell forward surplus US dollars and euros so as to hedge 80% of the groups UK based US dollar and euro revenues for the coming 12 months and 50% of the groups UK based US dollar and euro revenues for the subsequent six months.
In addition, at a group level a series of US dollar forward contracts is put in place up to 18 months forward to hedge a subsidiarys Canadian cost base.
As at September 30 2013, the aggregate amount of unrealised gains under forward foreign exchange contracts deferred in the fair value reserve relating to future revenue transactions is 1,573,000 2012: gains 2,759,000.
It is anticipated that the transactions will take place over the next 18 months at which stage the amount deferred in equity will be released to the Income Statement.
As at September 30 2013, there were no ineffective cash flow hedges in place at the year end 2012: nil.
iii Interest rate risk The groups borrowings are in both sterling and US dollars with the related interest tied to LIBOR.
This results in the groups interest charge being at risk to fluctuations in interest rates.
It is the groups policy to hedge approximately 80% of its interest exposure, converting its floating rate debt into fixed debt by means of interest rate swaps.
The maturity dates are spread in order to avoid interest rate basis risk and also to negate short-term changes in interest rates.
The predictability of interest costs is deemed to be more important than the possible opportunity cost forgone of achieving lower interest 22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 125 125 18 Financial instruments and risk management continued rates and this hedging strategy has the effect of spreading the groups exposure to fluctuations arising from changes in interest rates and hence protects the groups interest charge against sudden increases in rates but also prevents the group from benefiting immediately from falls in rates.
As at September 30 2013, due to the low level of debt there were no interest rate swaps outstanding.
The groups exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk section on page 126.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivative and non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
A 100 basis point increase or decrease is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel and represents the directors assessment of a reasonably possible change in interest rates at the reporting date.
If interest rates had been 100 basis points higher or lower and all other variables were held constant: The groups profit for the year ended September 30 2013 would decrease or increase by 272,000 2012: 338,000.
This is mainly attributable to the groups exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings: and Other equity reserves would decrease or increase by nil 2012: 561,000 mainly as a result of the changes in the fair value of interest rate swaps.
Interest rate swap contracts Under interest rate swap contracts, the group agrees to exchange the difference between fixed and floating rate interest amounts calculated on agreed notional principal amounts.
Such contracts enable the group to mitigate the risk of changing interest rates on the fair value of issued fixed rate debt and the cash flow exposures on the issued variable rate debt.
The fair value of interest rate swaps at the reporting date is determined by discounting the future cash flows using the yield curves at the reporting date and the credit risk inherent in the contract, and is disclosed below.
The following table details the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of interest rate swap contracts outstanding as at the reporting date for the previous year.
The average interest rate is based on the outstanding balances at the end of the financial year.
Cash flow hedges Average contracted Notional principal US dollar: Receive floating pay fixed fixed interest rate amount Fair value 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 % % 000 000 000 000 Less than 1 year 3.25 18,578 389 1 to 2 years 2.52 6,193 206 GBP: Receive floating pay fixed Average contracted Notional principal fixed interest rate amount Fair value 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 % % 000 000 000 000 Less than 1 year 2.57 5,000 50 22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements Gr Group Accounts oup Accounts Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 126 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18 Financial instruments and risk management continued Interest rate swap contracts continued The interest rate swaps settle on a quarterly basis.
The floating rate on the interest rate swaps is LIBOR.
The group will settle the difference between the fixed and floating interest rate on a net basis.
All interest rate swap contracts exchanging floating rate interest amounts for fixed rate interest amounts are designated as cash flow hedges in order to reduce the groups cash flow exposure resulting from variable interest rates on borrowings.
The interest rate swaps and the interest payments on the loan occur simultaneously and the amount deferred in equity is recognised in the Income Statement over the period that the floating rate interest payments on debt impact the Income Statement.
As at September 30 2013, the aggregate amount of unrealised interest under swap contracts deferred in the fair value reserve relating to future interest payable was nil 2012: 283,000.
As at September 30 2013, the aggregate amount of unrealised interest recognised in the Income Statement under ineffective swaps still in place at the year end was nil 2012: 362,000. iv Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the group.
The group seeks to limit interest rate and foreign currency risks described above by the use of financial instruments and as a result have a credit risk from the potential non-performance by the counterparties to these financial instruments, which are unsecured.
The amount of this credit risk is normally restricted to the amounts of any hedge gain and not the principal amount being hedged.
The group also has a credit exposure to counterparties for the full principal amount of cash and cash equivalents.
Credit risks are controlled by monitoring the amounts outstanding with, and the credit quality of, these counterparties.
For the groups cash and cash equivalents these are principally licensed commercial banks and investment banks with strong long-term credit ratings, and for derivative financial instruments with DMGT who have treasury policies in place which do not allow concentrations of risk with individual counterparties and do not allow significant treasury exposures with counterparties which are rated lower than AA.
The group also has credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables, prepayments and accrued income.
The concentration of credit risk from trade receivables is limited due to the groups large and broad customer base.
Trade receivable exposures are managed locally in the business units where they arise.
Allowance is made for bad and doubtful debts based on managements assessment of the risk of non-payment taking into account the ageing profile, experience and circumstance.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset, including derivative financial instruments, recorded in the Statement of Financial Position.
The group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or any group of counterparties having similar characteristics.
The group defines counterparties as having similar characteristics if they are related entities.
Concentration of credit risk did not exceed 5% of gross monetary assets at any time during the year.
v Liquidity risk The group has significant intercompany borrowings and is an approved borrower under a DMGT US$300 million dedicated multi-currency facility.
The facility is divided into US dollar and sterling funds and was due to mature in December 2013.
The total maximum borrowing capacity is as follows: US Dollar US$250 million Sterling 33 million The facility requires the group to meet certain covenants based on net debt and profits adjusted for certain non-cash items and the impact of foreign exchange.
Failure to do so would result in the group being in breach of the facility potentially resulting in the facility being withdrawn or impediment of management decision making by the lender.
Management regularly monitors the covenants and prepares detailed cash flow forecasts to ensure that sufficient headroom is available and that the covenants are not close or potentially close to breach.
At September 30 2013, the groups net debt to adjusted EBITDA was 0.09 times.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 127 127 18 Financial instruments and risk management continued The groups strategy is to use excess operating cash to pay down its debt.
The group generally has an annual cash conversion rate the percentage by which cash generated by operations covers operating profit before acquired intangible amortisation, long-term incentive expense and exceptional items of over 100%, due to much of its subscription, conference and training revenue being paid in advance.
However, this year the groups cash conversion rate was 88% compared to 103% last year, due to cash payments in 2013 in respect of the vesting of the first tranche of options under the CAP 9.5 million and profit shares for the companys former chairman who died in October 2012, both of which were expensed in financial year 2012 or earlier.
Under the DMGT facility, at September 30 2013, the group had 165.9 million of undrawn but committed facilities available.
There is a risk that the undrawn portion of the facility, or that the additional funding, may be unavailable or withdrawn if DMGT experience funding difficulties themselves.
However, if DMGT were unable to fulfil its funding commitment to the group, the directors are confident that the group would be in a position to secure adequate external facilities, although probably at a higher cost of funding.
The group has agreed terms with DMGT that provide it with US$160 million of additional funding during the period to April 2016.
This table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted contractual cash flows of the financial liabilities including both interest and principal cash flows.
To the extent that the interest rates are floating, the undiscounted amount is derived from interest rate curves at September 30 2013.
The contractual maturity is based on the earliest date on which the group may be required to settle.
Weighted average effective Less than interest rate 1 year 13 years Total 2013 % 000 000 000 Variable rate borrowings 3.56 21,205 21,205 Acquisition commitments 539 14,498 15,037 Deferred consideration 7,040 9,085 16,125 Non-interest bearing liabilities trade and other payables, and accruals 82,657 82,657 Weighted average effective Less than interest rate 1 year 13 years Total 2012 % 000 000 000 Variable rate borrowings 2.49 1,228 43,154 44,382 Acquisition commitments 4,273 3,595 7,868 Deferred consideration 77 77 Non-interest bearing liabilities trade and other payables, and accruals 89,561 6,341 95,902 At September 30 2013, 20,177,000 2012: 38,631,000 of borrowings were designated in US dollars with the remainder in sterling.
The average rate of interest paid on the debt was 5.68% 2012: 4.82%.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements Gr Group Accounts oup Accounts Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 128 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18 Financial instruments and risk management continued The following table details the groups remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial assets, mainly short-term deposits for amounts on loans owed by DMGT group undertakings and equity non-controlling interests.
This table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted contractual maturities of the financial assets including interest that will be earned on those assets except where the group anticipates that the cash flow will occur in a different period.
Weighted average effective Less than interest rate 1 year Total 2013 % 000 000 Variable interest rate instruments cash at bank 1.27 11,268 11,268 Prepaid deferred consideration 4,479 4,479 Non-interest bearing assets trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 67,092 67,092 82,839 82,839 Weighted average effective Less than interest rate 1 year Total % 000 000 2012 Variable interest rate instruments cash at bank and short-term deposits 0.86 13,544 13,544 Non-interest bearing assets trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 59,048 59,048 72,592 72,592 The following table details the groups liquidity analysis for its derivative financial instruments.
The table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted net cash inflows and outflows on the derivative instrument that settle on a net basis and the undiscounted gross inflows and outflows on those derivatives that require gross settlement.
When the amount payable or receivable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to the projected interest rates as illustrated by the yield curves existing at the reporting date.
Less than 13 3 months 1 month months to 1 year 15 years Total 2013 000 000 000 000 000 Net settled Interest rate swaps Gross settled Foreign exchange forward contracts inflows 7,033 14,668 64,544 25,442 111,687 Foreign exchange forward contracts outflows 7,074 14,712 63,424 24,538 109,748 41 44 1,120 904 1,939 Less than 13 3 months 1 month months to 1 year 15 years Total 2012 000 000 000 000 000 Net settled Interest rate swaps 196 375 66 637 Gross settled Foreign exchange forward contracts inflows 7,358 13,163 67,221 22,877 110,619 Foreign exchange forward contracts outflows 7,063 12,769 65,258 22,500 107,590 295 198 1,588 311 2,392 22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 129 129 18 Financial instruments and risk management continued Fair value of financial instruments The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows: Level 1 The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets is determined with reference to quoted market prices.
Level 2 The fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities excluding derivative instruments is determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer quotes for similar instruments: Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts: and Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.
Level 3 If one or more significant inputs are not based on observable market date, the instrument is included in level 3.
As at September 30 2013 and the prior year, all the resulting fair value estimates have been included in level 2 other than the groups acquisition commitments which are classified as level 3.
Other financial instruments not recorded at fair value The directors consider that the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the financial statements approximate their fair values.
Such financial assets and financial liabilities include cash and cash equivalents, receivables, prepayments, accrued income, payables and loans.
19 Bank overdrafts and loans 2013 2012 000 000 Loan notes current liability 1,028 1,228 Committed loan facility current liability 20,177 Committed loan facility non-current liability 43,154 20,177 43,154 Loan notes Loan notes were issued in October and November 2006 to fund the purchase of Metal Bulletin plc.
Interest is payable on these loan notes at a variable rate of 0.75% below LIBOR, payable in June and December.
Loan notes can be redeemed at the option of the loan note holder twice a year on the interest payment dates above.
At least 20 business days written notice prior to the redemption date is required.
During the year ended September 30 2013 199,000 2012: 386,000 of these loan notes were redeemed.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements Gr Group Accounts oup Accounts Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 130 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19 Bank overdrafts and loans continued Committed loan facility The groups debt is provided through a dedicated US$300 million multi-currency borrowing facility from Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT.
The total maximum borrowing capacity is US$250 million 154 million and 33 million.
Interest is payable on this facility at a variable rate of between 1.4% and 3.0% above LIBOR dependent on the ratio of adjusted net debt to EBITDA.
The facilitys covenant requires the groups net debt to be no more than four times adjusted EBITDA on a rolling 12 month basis.
Failure to do so would result in the group being in breach of the facility, potentially resulting in the facility being withdrawn or impediment of management decision making by the lender.
Management regularly monitors the covenant and prepares detailed debt forecasts to ensure that sufficient headroom is available and that the covenants are not close or potentially close to breach.
Subsequent to the year end, the group has signed a US$160 million multi-currency replacement funding facility with DMGT that provides access to funds, during the period to April 2016.
20 Provisions Onerous lease Other Group provision provisions total 000 000 000 At October 1 2012 2,784 4,171 6,955 Provision in the year 224 2,088 2,312 Used in the year 1,376 1,722 3,098 Exchange differences 41 41 At September 30 2013 1,673 4,537 6,210 Maturity profile of provisions 2013 2012 000 000 Within one year included in current liabilities 3,974 2,037 Between one and two years included in non-current liabilities 417 2,469 Between two and five years included in non-current liabilities 1,819 2,449 6,210 6,955 Onerous lease provision The onerous lease provision relates to certain buildings within the property portfolio which either at acquisition were rented at non-market rates, or are no longer occupied by the group.
Other provisions The provision consists of social security arising on share option liabilities and dilapidations on leasehold properties.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 131 131 21 Deferred taxation The net deferred tax liability at September 30 2013 comprised: Other Income comprehensive Acquisitions Exchange 2012 statement income Equity and disposals differences 2013 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Capitalised goodwill and intangibles 28,348 659 36 2,067 43 29,749 Tax losses 1,367 2,289 62 3,594 Financial instruments 441 90 351 Other short-term temporary differences 17,791 3,469 287 587 61 14,683 Deferred tax 9,631 521 197 551 2,067 42 11,823 Comprising: Deferred tax assets 7,344 5,015 Deferred tax liabilities 16,975 16,838 9,631 11,823 Other Income comprehensive Acquisitions Exchange 2012 statement income Equity and disposals differences 2013 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Other short-term temporary differences: Share-based payments 7,423 2,305 587 20 5,725 Pension deficit 626 237 287 576 Accelerated capital allowances 629 24 21 584 Deferred income, accruals and other provisions 9,113 1,377 62 7,798 Total other short-term temporary differences 17,791 3,469 287 587 61 14,683 At the balance sheet date, the group has unused US tax losses available for offset against future profits.
At September 30 2013 a deferred tax asset of 3,594,000 2012: 1,367,000 has been recognised in relation to these losses.
The US losses can be carried forward for a period of 20 years from the date they arose.
The US losses have expiry dates between 2014 and 2029.
At September 30 2013, a net deferred tax asset of 693,000 2012: 5,511,000 has been recognised in respect of US tax deductible goodwill amortisation, capitalised intangible assets and other short-term timing differences.
The directors are of the opinion that, based on recent and forecast trading, it is probable that the level of profits in future years is sufficient to enable the above assets to be recovered.
No deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of 153,233,000 2012: 94,478,000 relating to the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries as the group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences at September 30 2013 represent only the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries where remittance to the UK of those earnings may still result in a tax liability, principally as a result of dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which these subsidiaries operate.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements Gr Group Accounts oup Accounts Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 132 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 22 Called up share capital 2013 2012 000 000 Allotted, called up and fully paid 126,457,324 ordinary shares of 0.25p each 2012: 124,349,531 ordinary shares of 0.25p each 316 311 During the year, 2,107,793 ordinary shares of 0.25p each 2012: 3,102,151 ordinary shares with an aggregate nominal value of 5,270 2012: 7,755 were issued as follows: 2,107,793 ordinary shares 2012: 720,741 ordinary shares following the exercise of share options granted under the companys share option schemes for a cash consideration of 2,228,590 2012: 1,058,834.
In addition, last year 2,381,410 shares were issued under the companys 2009 scrip dividend alternative for a cash consideration of nil.
There was no scrip dividend alternative offered in 2013.
23 Share-based payments The groups long-term incentive expense at September 30 comprised: 2013 2012 000 000 Equity-settled options SAYE 96 97 CAP 2004 1,809 CAP 2010 971 4,042 1,067 2,330 Cash-settled options CAP 2010 971 4,042 Internet Securities, Inc. 7 8 Structured Retail Products Limited 55 79 1,033 3,971 2,100 6,301 The total carrying value of cash-settled options at September 30 included in the Statement of Financial Position is: 2013 2012 000 000 Current 7,435 7,768 Non-current 6,341 7,435 14,109 22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 133 133 23 Share-based payments continued Equity-settled options The options set out below are outstanding at September 30 and are options to subscribe for new ordinary shares of 0.25p each in the company.
The total charge recognised in the year from equity-settled options was 1,067,000, 51% of the groups long-term incentive expense 2012: charge 2,330,000, 37%.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 23 Share-based payments continued Equity-settled options continued The options outstanding at September 30 2013 had a weighted average exercise price of 0.67 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 6.44 years.
1 CAP 2004 options shown in the above tables relate only to those options that have vested see page 65 in the Directors Remuneration Report for further information on CAP 2004 options.
2 The allocation of the number of options granted under each tranche of the CAP 2010 and CSOP UK and CSOP Canada represents the directors best estimate.
The CAP 2010 award is reduced by the number of options vesting under the respective CSOP schemes see below and the Directors Remuneration Report for further details.
Options granted trued-up relate to the adjustments to those that were likely to vest on February 14 2013 under the second and third tranche of the CAP 2004 following the achievement of the additional performance test and the first tranche of CAP 2010.
The number of options granted was provisional and required a true-up to reflect adjustments of the individual businesses profits during the period to December 31 2012 and 2013 respectively as required by the Remuneration Committee.
As such, the actual number of options vested varied from that disclosed last year.
Cash-settled options The group has liabilities in respect of two share option schemes that are classified by IFRS 2 Share-based payments as cash settled.
These consist of the cash element of the CAP 2010 scheme and options held by employees over equity shares in Structured Retail Products Limited, a subsidiary of the group.
Of these schemes, options with an intrinsic value of nil had vested but are not yet exercised 2012: 3,000.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 135 135 23 Share-based payments continued Share Option Schemes Capital Appreciation Plan 2010 CAP 2010 The CAP 2010 executive share option scheme was approved by shareholders on January 21 2010.
Each CAP 2010 award comprises two equal elements an option to subscribe for ordinary shares of 0.25p each in the company at an exercise price of 0.25p per ordinary share, and a right to receive a cash payment.
The awards vest in two equal tranches.
The first tranche of awards became exercisable in February 2013 following satisfaction of the primary performance condition adjusted pre-tax profits of at least 105 million, increased from 100 million following the acquisition of NDR.
The second tranche of awards becomes exercisable in the February following a subsequent financial year in which adjusted pre-tax profits again equal or exceed 105 million, but no earlier than February 2014.
The second tranche only vests on satisfaction of the primary performance condition and an additional performance condition and lapse to the extent unexercised by September 30 2020.
The number of options received under the share award of the CAP 2010 is reduced by the number of options vesting with participants from the 2010 Company Share Option Plan.
The primary performance condition was achieved in financial year 2011, two years earlier than expected, when adjusted pre-tax profits were 101.3 million.
However, the internal rules of the plan prevented the awards vesting more than one year early, so although the primary condition had been achieved, the award pool was allocated between the holders of outstanding awards by reference to their contribution to the growth in profits of the group from the 2009 base year to the profits achieved in financial year 2012 and these awards were exercisable in February 2013.
The primary performance condition was achieved again in financial year 2012 and, after applying the additional performance condition, the second tranche of options will become exercisable in February 2014. see Directors Remuneration Report for further information.
Company Share Option Plan 2010 CSOP 2010 In parallel with the CAP 2010, the shareholders approved the CSOP 2010 UK and Canada at the AGM on January 21 2010.
The CSOP 2010 UK was approved by HM Revenue & Customs on June 21 2010 and options granted on June 28 2010.
The CSOP 2010 UK option enables each participant to purchase up to 4,972 shares in the company at a price of 6.03 per share, the market value at the date of grant.
The options vest and become exercisable at the same time as the corresponding share award under the CAP 2010 providing the CSOP option is in the money at that time and did not vest before June 28 2013.
Once vested the CSOP option remains exercisable for one month.
If the CSOP option is not in the money at the time of vesting of the corresponding CAP 2010 share award it continues to subsist and becomes exercisable at the same time as the second tranche of the CAP 2010 share award.
The CSOP 2010 Canada, granted on March 30 2010, enables each participant to purchase up to 19,960 shares in the company at a price of 5.01 per share, the market value at the date of grant.
No option may vest after the date falling three months after the preliminary announcement of the results for the financial year ended September 30 2019, and the option shall lapse to the extent unvested at the time.
The CSOP has the same performance criteria as that of the CAP 2010 as set out above.
The number of CSOP 2010 awards that vest proportionally reduce the number of shares that vest under the CAP 2010 as the CSOP is effectively a delivery mechanism for part of the CAP 2010 award.
The CSOP 2010 option exercise price of 6.03 UK and 5.01 Canada will be satisfied by a funding award mechanism and results in the same net gain on the CSOP options calculated as the market price of the companys shares at the date of exercise less the exercise price, multiplied by the number of options exercised delivered in the equivalent number of shares to participants as if the award had been delivered using 0.25p CAP options.
Capital Appreciation Plan 2004 CAP 2004 The CAP 2004 executive share option scheme was approved by shareholders on February 1 2005.
Each of the CAP awards comprises an option to subscribe for ordinary shares of 0.25p each in the company for an exercise price of 0.25p per ordinary share.
The awards become exercisable on satisfaction of certain performance conditions and lapse to the extent unexercised on September 30 2014.
The initial performance condition was achieved in the financial year 2007 and the option pool a maximum of 7.5 million shares was allocated between the holders of outstanding awards.
One-third of the awards vested immediately.
The primary performance target was achieved again in 2008 and, after applying the additional performance condition, 2,241,269 options from the second tranche of options vested in February 2009.
The primary performance target was also achieved in 2009 and 1,527,152 options including a true-up adjustment of 5,654 for the third final tranche of options in 2009 vested in February 2010.
The additional performance condition was applied to profits for financial year 2010 to 2012 for those individual participants where the additional performance conditions for the second and final tranches had not previously been met and 303,321, 244,152 and 39,907 options vested in February 2011, 2012 and 2013 respectively.
No further options will vest under this scheme and all outstanding options have been exercised.
Adjusted pre-tax profits is profit before tax excluding acquired intangible amortisation, CAP 2010 element of long-term incentive expense, exceptional items, profits from significant acquisitions, net movements in acquisition commitments values, imputed interest on acquisition commitments, foreign exchange loss interest charge on tax equalisation contracts and foreign exchange on restructured hedging arrangements as set out in the Income Statement, note 5 and note 7.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements Gr Group Accounts oup Accounts Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 136 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 23 Share-based payments continued Share Option Schemes continued The company has four share option schemes for which an IFRS 2 Share-based payments charge has been recognised.
Details of these schemes are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 62 to 64.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are shown below.
SAYE Executive Options 12 13 14 January 28 December 21 December 20 December 17 Date of grant 2004 2010 2011 2012 Market value at date of grant p 419 706 621 798 Option price p 419 565 497 639 Number of share options outstanding 8,000 19,193 126,153 63,000 Option life years 10.0 3.5 3.5 3.5 Expected term of option grant to exercise years 5.5 3.0 3.0 3.0 Exercise price p 419 565 497 639 Risk-free rate 4.10% 1.63% 0.53% 0.53% Dividend yield 3.93% 5.28% 4.30% 2.31% Volatility 30% 38% 35% 27% Fair value per option 0.72 1.82 1.54 1.93 The executive and Save as You Earn SAYE options were valued using the BlackScholes option-pricing model.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the groups share price over a period of three years.
The executive options fair values have been discounted at a rate of 10% to reflect their performance conditions.
The expected term of the option used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The charge recognised in the year in respect of these options was 96,000 2012: 97,000.
CAP 2010 CSOP 2010 Tranche 1 Tranche 2 UK March 30 March 30 June 28 Date of grant 2010 2010 2010 Market value at date of grant p 501 501 603.34 Option price p 0.25 0.25 603.34 Number of share options outstanding 10,468 1,709,846 24,048 Option life years 10 10 9.38 Expected term of option grant to exercise years 4 5 3 Exercise price p 0.25 0.25 603.34 Risk-free rate 2.28% 2.75% 2.28% Dividend growth 7.00% 7.00% 7.00% Fair value per option 4.37 4.20 4.37 The CAP 2010 options were valued using a fair value model that adjusted the share price at the date of grant for the net present value of expected future dividend streams up to the date of expected exercise.
The expected term of the option used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The number of CSOP 2010 awards that vest proportionally reduce the number of shares that vest under the CAP 2010, the CSOP is effectively a delivery mechanism for part of the CAP 2010 award.
The CSOP 2010 options have an exercise price of 6.03, which will be satisfied by a funding award 22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 137 137 23 Share-based payments continued 1 mechanism which results in the same net gain on these options delivered in the equivalent number of shares to participants as if the same award had been delivered using 0.25 pence CAP options.
The amount of the funding award will depend on the companys share price at the date of vesting.
Because of the above and the other direct links between the CSOP 2010 and the CAP 2010, including the identical performance criteria, IFRS 2 Share based payments combines the two plans and treats them as one plan vesting in two tranches.
The long-term incentive expense recognised in the year for the CSOP 2010 and CAP 2010 options including the charge in relation to the cash element was 1,942,000 2012:8,084,000.
1 Net gain on the CSOP options is the market price of the companys shares at the date of exercise less the exercise price 6.03 multiplied by the number of options exercised.
Exercise price excludes the effect of the funding award.
24 Acquisition commitments and deferred consideration The group is party to contingent consideration arrangements in the form of both acquisition commitments and deferred consideration payments.
IAS 39 Financial Instruments requires the group to recognise the discounted present value of the contingent consideration.
This discount is unwound as a notional interest charge to the Income Statement.
The group regularly performs a review of the underlying businesses to assess the impact on the fair value of the contingent consideration.
Any resultant change in these fair values is reported as a finance income or expense in the Income Statement.
Acquisition commitments Deferred consideration 2013 2012 2013 2012 000 000 000 000 At October 1 7,868 11,001 77 1,131 Additions from acquisitions during the year 4,404 12,177 407 Net movements during the year note 7 1,619 2,940 3,887 35 Imputed interest note 7 1,269 977 834 Exercise of commitments 82 831 Paid during the year 5,329 612 Exchange differences 41 339 At September 30 15,037 7,868 11,646 77 An expense of 2,888,000 2012: net income of 1,963,000 was recorded in finance income and expense for acquisition commitments and 4,721,000 2012: net income of 35,000 for deferred consideration note 7.
Maturity profile of contingent consideration: Acquisition commitments Deferred consideration 2013 2012 2013 2012 000 000 000 000 Prepayments included in trade and other receivables 4,479 Within one year included in current liabilities 539 4,273 7,040 77 In more than one year included in non-current liabilities 14,498 3,595 9,085 15,037 7,868 11,646 77 The prepayment represents deferred consideration paid in advance into escrow following the acquisitions of Insider Publishing 2,400,000 and CIE A$3,600,000 2,079,000 note 14.
There is a deferred tax asset of 168,000 2012: nil related to the acquisition commitments as at September 30 2013.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements Gr Group Accounts oup Accounts Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 138 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 24 Acquisition commitments and deferred consideration continued During the year, the terms of the put option agreement for Ned Davis Research NDR were amended to defer the earn-out payment to early 2017 and to combine the payment into one instalment based on a revised pre-determined multiple of the average results of the business for the periods to September 30 2015 and 2016.
As a result, the expected liability under this mechanism, discounted using the groups WACC, has increased from 7,812,000 at September 30 2012 to 10,395,000 at September 30 2013 resulting in a charge to the Income Statement of 2,621,000 and a foreign exchange gain of 38,000 in reserves.
As explained in note 2, key judgemental areas in preparing the financial statements, the value of the acquisition commitments and acquisition deferred consideration is subject to a number of assumptions.
The potential undiscounted amount of all future payments that the group could be required to make under the contingent consideration arrangements is as follows: 2013 2012 Maximum Minimum Maximum Minimum 000 000 000 000 NDR 37,445 37,552 Insider Publishing 16,600 TTI Vanguard 4,284 CIE 11,086 69,415 37,552 A sensitivity analysis of the fair value of the acquisition commitments, using a reasonably possible increase or decrease of 10% in expected profits, results in the liability at September 30 2013 increasing or decreasing by 1,504,000 with the corresponding change to the value at September 30 2013 charged or credited to the Income Statement in future periods.
A sensitivity analysis of the fair value of the deferred consideration payments, using a reasonably possible increase or decrease of 10% in expected profits, results in the liability at September 30 2013 increasing or decreasing by 3,483,000 with the corresponding change to the value at September 30 2013 charged or credited to the Income Statement in future periods.
The group has the option to purchase the remaining 50% equity holding of GGA Pte.
Limited in March 2014 and if exercised expects to pay 1,021,000 854,000.
Under IAS 32 Financial Instruments this acquisition commitment is not recorded as a liability in the balance sheet.
25 Operating lease commitments At September 30 the group had committed to make the following payments in respect of operating leases on land and buildings: 2013 2012 000 000 Within one year 7,616 6,728 Between two and five years 15,578 16,451 After five years 5,548 2,812 28,742 25,991 The groups operating leases do not include any significant leasing terms or conditions.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 139 139 25 Operating lease commitments continued At September 30 the group had contracted with tenants to receive the following payments in respect of operating leases on land and buildings: 2013 2012 000 000 Within one year 1,196 1,320 Between two and five years 2,649 3,492 After five years 445 3,845 5,257 26 Retirement benefit schemes Defined contribution schemes The group operates the following defined contribution schemes: Euromoney PensionSaver, Euromoney Pension Plan, the Metal Bulletin Group Personal Pension Plan in the UK and the 401 k savings and investment plan in the US.
It also participates in the Harmsworth Pension Scheme, a defined benefit scheme which is operated by Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT but is accounted for in Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC as a defined contribution scheme.
In compliance with recent legislation the group is making arrangements for relevant employees to be automatically enrolled into defined contribution pension plans.
The staging date for the group for automatic enrolment is expected to be November 2013.
The pension charge in respect of defined contribution schemes for the year ended September 30 comprised: 2013 2012 000 000 Euromoney Pension Plan PensionSaver 1,238 1,094 Metal Bulletin Group Personal Pension Plan 16 24 Private schemes 1,101 1,077 Harmsworth Pension Scheme 88 112 2,443 2,307 Euromoney PensionSaver and Euromoney Pension Plan Euromoney PensionSaver is a group personal pension plan and is the principal pension arrangement offered to employees of the group.
Contributions are paid by the employer and employees.
Employees are able to contribute a minimum of 2% of salary with an equal company contribution in the first three years of employment and thereafter at twice the employee contribution rate, up to a maximum employer contribution of 10% of salary.
The Euromoney Pension Plan is a part of the DMGT Pension Trust, an umbrella trust under which DMGT UK trust-based defined contribution plans are held.
Insured death benefits previously held under this trust have been transferred to a new trust-based arrangement specifically for life assurance purposes.
When the process of transferring out the remaining assets of the Euromoney Pension Plan has been completed the plan will be wound up.
Assets of both plans are invested in funds selected by members and held independently from the companys finances.
The investment and administration of both plans is undertaken by Fidelity Pension Management.
Metal Bulletin Group Personal Pension Plan The Metal Bulletin Group Personal Pension Plan is a defined contribution arrangement under which contributions are paid by the employer and employees.
The scheme is closed to new members.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements Gr Group Accounts oup Accounts Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 140 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 26 Retirement benefit schemes continued Metal Bulletin Group Personal Pension Plan continued The plans assets are invested under trust in funds selected by members and held independently from the companys finances.
The investment and administration of the plan is undertaken by Skandia Life Group.
Private schemes Institutional Investor, Inc. contributes to a 401 k savings and investment plan for its employees which is administered by an independent investment provider.
Employees are able to contribute up to 15% of salary with the company matching up to 50% of the employee contributions, up to 5% of salary.
The company also provides access to a stakeholder pension plan for relevant employees who are not eligible for other pension schemes operated by the group.
These arrangements will be superseded when automatic enrolment begins in 2013.
Harmsworth Pension Scheme The Harmsworth Pension Scheme is a defined benefit scheme operated by DMGT.
The scheme is closed to new entrants.
Existing members still in employment can continue to accrue benefits in the scheme on a cash balance basis, with members building up a retirement account that they can use to buy an annuity from an insurance company at retirement.
Full actuarial valuations of the defined benefit schemes are carried out triennially by the Scheme Actuary.
As a result of the valuations of the main schemes completed as at March 31 2010, DMGT has been making annual contributions of 10% or 15% of members basic pay depending on membership section.
In addition, in accordance with agreed Recovery Plans, DMGT made payments of 11.6 million in the year to September 30 2013.
Following the disposal of Northcliffe Media Limited, DMGT agreed to make additional contributions of 30.0 million, including debts calculated in accordance with Section 75 of the Pensions Act 1995.
Payments of 17.1 million were made during the year to September 30 2013 with the balance of 12.9 million to be paid in January 2014.
In addition, following announcement by DMGT of a buy-back programme of up to 100 million of shares in autumn 2012, DMGT agreed with the Trustees that additional special contributions would be paid to the scheme when the total value of shares bought-back exceeded 50 million.
The first contribution arising from this agreement was made in June 2013 in the amount of 1.8 million.
The triennial funding valuation of the scheme as at March 31 2013, is not expected to be completed until the first quarter of 2014.
DMGT has enabled the trustee of the scheme to acquire a beneficial interest in a Limited Partnership investment vehicle LP.
The LP has been designed to facilitate payment of part of the deficit funding payments described above over a period of 15 years to 2027.
In addition, the LP is required to make a final payment to the scheme of 150 million or the funding deficit within the scheme on an ongoing actuarial valuation basis at the end of the 15 year period if this is less.
For funding purposes, the interest held by the trustee in the LP will be treated as an asset of the scheme and reduce the actuarial deficit within the scheme.
However, under IAS 19 the LP is not included as an asset of the scheme and therefore is not included in the calculation of the deficit below.
The group is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities in the Harmsworth Pension Scheme.
The scheme is operated on an aggregate basis with no segregation of the assets to individual participating employers and, therefore, the same contribution rate is charged to all participating employers i. e. the contribution rate charged to each employer is affected by the experience of the schemes as a whole.
The scheme is therefore accounted for as a defined contribution scheme by the company.
This means that the pension charge reported in these financial statements is the same as the cash contributions due in the period.
The groups pension charge for the Harmsworth Pension Scheme for the year ended September 30 2013 was 88,000 2012: 112,000.
DMGT is required to account for the Harmsworth Pension Scheme under IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The IAS 19 disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts of DMGT have been based on the formal valuation of the scheme as at March 31 2010, and adjusted to September 30 2013 taking account of membership data at that date.
The calculations are adjusted to allow for the assumptions and actuarial methodology required by IAS 19.
These showed that the market value of the schemes assets was 1,646.3 million 2012: 1,481.2 million and that the actuarial value of these assets represented 89.6% 2012: 84.6% of the benefits that had accrued to members also calculated in accordance with IAS 19.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 141 141 26 Retirement benefit schemes continued Defined benefit scheme Metal Bulletin Pension Scheme The company operates the Metal Bulletin plc Pension Scheme MBPS, a defined benefit scheme which is closed to new entrants.
A full actuarial valuation of the defined benefit scheme is carried out triennially by the Scheme Actuary.
The latest valuation of the MBPS was completed as at June 1 2010.
As a result of the valuation, the company agreed to make annual contributions of 22.3% per annum of pensionable salaries, plus 42,400 per month to the scheme.
The contributions will be reviewed at the next triennial funding valuation of the scheme due to be completed with an effective date June 1 2013.
The figures in this note are based on calculations carried out in connection with the actuarial valuation of the scheme as at June 1 2010 adjusted to September 30 2013 by the actuary.
The key financial assumptions adopted were as follows: Long-term assumed rate of: 2013 2012 Pensionable salary increases 2.5% p. a.
Pension escalation in payment pre January 1997 members 5.0% p. a.
Pension escalation in payment pensions earned from May 30 2002 to June 30 2006 post January 1997 members 3.4% p. a.
Pension escalation in payment pensions earned from June 30 2006 post January 1997 members 2.5% p. a.
Discount rate for accrued liabilities 4.3% p. a.
Pension increase in deferment 3.4% p. a.
The discount rate for scheme liabilities reflects yields at the balance sheet date on high quality corporate bonds.
All assumptions were selected after taking actuarial advice.
The demographic assumptions adopted were as follows: Pre-retirement mortality rates The following mortality rates represent the probability of a person dying within one year.
Age Males Females 30 0.03% 0.02% 40 0.05% 0.04% 50 0.14% 0.10% 60 0.44% 0.28% Assumed life expectancy in years, on retirement at 62 2013 2012 Retiring at the end of the reporting period: Males 25.9 25.8 Females 28.0 28.0 Retiring 20 years after the end of the reporting period: Males 28.1 28.0 Females 29.3 29.2 22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements Gr Group Accounts oup Accounts Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 142 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 26 Retirement benefit schemes continued The fair value of the assets held by the MBPS and the long-term expected rate of return on each class of assets are shown in the following table: With profits 2013 Equities Bonds policy Cash Total Value at September 30 2013 000 7,812 17,981 2,863 1,163 29,819 % of assets held 26.2% 60.3% 9.6% 3.9% 100.0% Long-term rate of return expected at September 30 2013 7.00% 4.00% 4.75% 1.50% With profits 2012 Equities Bonds policy Cash Total Value at September 30 2012 000 6,539 15,725 2,567 2,188 27,019 % of assets held 24.2% 58.2% 9.5% 8.1% 100.0% Long-term rate of return expected at September 30 2012 8.00% 3.50% 5.00% 1.50% A reconciliation of the net pension deficit reported in the Statement of Financial Position is shown in the following table: 2013 2012 000 000 Present value of defined benefit obligation 32,702 31,776 Assets at fair value 29,819 27,019 Deficit reported in the Statement of Financial Position 2,883 4,757 The deficit for the year excludes a related deferred tax asset of 576,000 2012: asset 626,000.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: 2013 2012 000 000 Present value of obligation at October 1 31,776 26,260 Service cost 61 58 Interest cost 1,302 1,314 Benefits paid 653 579 Members contributions 12 12 Actuarial movement 204 4,711 Present value of obligation at September 30 32,702 31,776 22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 143 143 26 Retirement benefit schemes continued Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2013 2012 000 000 Fair value of plan assets at October 1 27,019 24,361 Expected return on plan assets 1,235 1,329 Contributions: Employer 569 583 Members 12 12 Annuity surplus refund 30 25 Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 1,607 1,288 Benefits paid 653 579 Fair value of plan assets at September 30 29,819 27,019 The actual return on plan assets was a gain of 2,842,000 2012: gain 2,617,000 representing the expected return plus the associated actuarial gain or loss during the year.
The amounts charged to the Income Statement based on the above assumptions are as follows: 2013 2012 000 000 Current service costs charged to administrative costs 61 58 Interest cost note 7 1,302 1,314 Expected return on plan assets note 7 1,235 1,329 Total charge recognised in Income Statement 128 43 22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements Gr Group Accounts oup Accounts Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 144 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 26 Retirement benefit schemes continued Pension costs and the size of any pension surplus or deficit are sensitive to the assumptions adopted.
The table below indicates the effect of changes in the principal assumptions used above.
2013 2012 000 000 Mortality Change in pension obligation at September 30 from a one year change in life expectancy 946 943 Change in pension cost from a one year change 42 40 Salary Increases Change in pension obligation at September 30 from a 0.25% change 35 38 Change in pension cost from a 0.25% year change 4 4 Discount Rate Change in pension obligation at September 30 from a 0.1% change 636 630 Change in pension cost from a 0.1% change 28 3 Inflation Change in pension obligation at September 30 from a 0.1% change 197 182 Change in pension cost from a 0.1% change 8 7 Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income SOCI are shown in the following table: 2013 2012 000 000 Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 1,607 1,288 Return of surplus annuity payments 30 25 Experience adjustments on liabilities 339 178 Losses arising from changes in assumptions 135 4,533 Total gains losses recognised in SOCI 1,433 3,398 Cumulative actuarial loss recognised in SOCI at beginning of year 3,813 415 Cumulative actuarial loss recognised in SOCI at end of year 2,380 3,813 22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 145 145 26 Retirement benefit schemes continued History of experience gains and losses: 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 000 000 000 000 000 Present value of defined benefit obligation 32,702 31,776 26,260 25,811 21,916 Fair value of scheme assets 29,819 27,019 24,361 24,274 21,552 Deficit in scheme 2,883 4,757 1,899 1,537 364 Experience adjustments on defined benefit obligation 339 178 827 14 18 Percentage of present value of defined benefit obligation 1.0% 0.6% 3.1% 0.1% 0.1% Experience adjustments on fair value of scheme assets 1,607 1,288 1,395 1,363 760 Percentage of the fair value of the scheme assets 5.4% 4.8% 5.7% 5.6% 3.5% The group expects to contribute approximately 509,000 2012: expected contribution in 2013 of 509,000 to the MBPS during the 2014 financial year.
27 Contingent liabilities Claims in Malaysia Four writs claiming damages for libel were issued in Malaysia against the company and three of its employees in respect of an article published in one of the companys magazines, International Commercial Litigation, in November 1995.
The writs were served on the company on October 22 1996.
Two of these writs have been discontinued.
The total outstanding amount claimed on the two remaining writs is Malaysian ringgits 82.4 million 15,615,000.
No provision has been made for these claims in these financial statements as the directors do not believe the company has any material liability in respect of these writs.
28 Related party transactions The group has taken advantage of the exemption allowed under IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures not to disclose transactions and balances between group companies that have been eliminated on consolidation.
Other related party transactions and balances are detailed below: i The group had borrowings under a US$300 million multi-currency facility with DMGRH Finance Limited, a Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT group company as follows: 2013 2013 2012 2012 US$000 000 US$000 000 Amounts owing under US$ facility at September 30 34,782 21,478 62,381 38,631 Amounts owing under GBP facility at September 30 4,523 Amounts due under current account facility at September 30 2,108 1,301 20,177 43,154 Commitment fee on unused portion of the available facility for the year 856 618 22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements Gr Group Accounts oup Accounts Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 146 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 28 Related party transactions continued ii During the year the group expensed services provided by DMGT, the groups parent, and other fellow group companies, as follows: 2013 2012 000 000 Services expensed 424 444 iii At September 30, the group had fixed rate interest rate swaps outstanding with Daily Mail and General Holdings Limited DMGH, a fellow group company, as follows: 2013 2013 2012 2012 US$000 000 US$000 000 US$ fixed rate interest rate swaps 2012: Interest rates between 2.5% and 5.4% and termination dates March 28 2013 and September 30 2013 40,000 24,771 GBP fixed rate interest rate swaps 2012: Interest rate of 2.6% and termination date of March 28 2013 5,000 During the year the group paid interest to DMGH and related companies in respect of interest rate swaps as follows: 2013 2013 2012 2012 US$000 000 US$000 000 US$ interest paid 963 617 2,353 1,488 GBP interest paid 50 504 iv In January 2011, the group granted an Indian Rupee 112 million loan facility to RMSI Private Limited, a DMGT group company, at a 10.5% fixed interest rate.
The loan was repaid to the group on November 21 2011.
2013 2013 2012 2012 INR 000 000 INR 000 000 Interest income during the year 1,476 18 22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 147 147 28 Related party transactions continued v During the year DMGT group companies surrendered tax losses to Euromoney Consortium Limited under an agreement between the two groups.
These tax losses are relievable against UK taxable profits of the group under HMRCs consortium relief rules: 2013 2012 000 000 Amounts payable 1,971 2,584 Tax losses with tax value 2,628 3,445 vi During the year DMGT group companies surrendered tax losses to Euromoney Consortium 2 Limited under an agreement between the two groups.
These tax losses are relievable against UK taxable profits of the group under HMRCs consortium relief rules: 2013 2012 000 000 Amounts payable 565 631 Tax losses with tax value 754 841 Amounts owed to DMGT Group at September 30 473 vii In January 2013 the group exercised its call option to purchase the remaining non-controlling interest in Internet Securities, Inc. ISI.
Under the terms of the put option agreement consideration caps had been put in place that required the maximum consideration payable to option holders to be capped at an amount such that the results of any relevant class tests would, at the relevant time, fall below the requirement for shareholder approval.
In March 2013, under this call option mechanism, the group purchased 0.08% of the equity share capital of ISI for a cash consideration of US$102,000 67,000.
The groups equity shareholding in ISI increased to 100%.
viii NF Osborn serves on the management board of A&N International Media Limited and both DMG Events and dmgi, fellow group companies, for which he received fees for the year to September 30 2013 of 25,000 and US$45,000 respectively 2012: 25,000 and US$45,000 respectively.
Effective October 1 2013, NF Osborns fees from DMGT related companies were reduced to US$45,000.
ix PM Fallon served as a director on the executive board of DMGT, the groups parent.
During the year he earned non-executive director fees of nil 2012: 24,500 and received short-term employee benefits of nil 2012: 8,749.
PM Fallon died on October 14 2012. x B AL-Rehany received an interest bearing loan from BCA, a subsidiary company, for CAD39,000 on February 28 2013.
The loan accrued interest at 5% per annum.
At September 30 2013 the loan balance outstanding was CAD40,000 2012: nil.
The loan was repaid in full on November 8 2013. xi During the year the group received a dividend of 268,000 2012: 291,000 from Capital NET Limited, an associate of the group.
xii The directors who served during the year received dividends of 230,000 2012: 210,000 in respect of ordinary shares held in the company.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements Gr Group Accounts oup Accounts Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 148 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 28 Related party transactions continued xiii The compensation paid or payable for key management is set out below.
Key management includes the executive and non-executive directors as set out in the Directors Remuneration Report and other key divisional directors who are not on the board.
Key management compensation 2013 2012 000 000 Salaries and short-term employee benefits 12,791 18,726 Non-executive directors fees 204 181 Post-employment benefits 227 137 Other long-term benefits all share-based 4,181 1,272 17,403 20,316 Of which: Executive directors 11,966 16,458 Non-executive directors 204 181 Divisional directors 5,233 3,677 17,403 20,316 Details of the remuneration of directors are given in the Directors Remuneration Report.
29 Events after the balance sheet date The directors propose a final dividend of 15.75p per share 2012: 14.75p totalling 19,917,000 2012: 18,342,000 for the year ended September302013.
The dividend will be submitted for formal approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on January 30 2014.
In accordance with IAS 10 Events after the Reporting Period, these financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable but will be accounted for in shareholders equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ending September302014.
During 2013, a final dividend of 14.75p 2012: 12.50p per share totalling 18,342,000 2012: 15,162,000 was paid in respect of the dividend declared for the year ended September 30 2012.
Purchase of new business Infrastructure Journal IJ On October 15 2013, the group signed a binding agreement with Top Right Group to acquire 100% of the trade and assets of IJ, a leading provider of online data, intelligence and events for the global infrastructure sector, for a consideration of 12,500,000.
The transaction completed, after the required TUPE Transfer of Undertakings Protection of Employment consultation period, on October 31 2013.
The acquisition of IJ is consistent with the groups strategy of investing in online subscription and events businesses which will benefit from its global reach.
With its strong brand and market recognition, IJs editorial proposition and geographic reach complements the groups Project Finance brand which it has owned for 25 years.
The additional IFRS 3 2008 Business Combinations disclosures are not provided because the initial accounting for the business combination is incomplete at the time this report is authorised for issue.
Investment Family Office Network Limited On October 1 2013, the group invested US$264,000 165,000 in 51% of the equity share capital of Family Office Network Limited, a new company whose principal activity is the provision of an online community for single and multi-family offices.
The group has the option to purchase a further 24% equity holding of Family Office Network Limited in September 2017.
There were no other events after the balance sheet date.
22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 149 149 30 Ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party The directors regard the ultimate parent undertaking as Rothermere Continuation Limited, which is incorporated in Bermuda.
The ultimate controlling party is The Viscount Rothermere.
The largest and smallest group of which the company is a member and for which group accounts are drawn up is that of Daily Mail and General Trust plc, incorporated in Great Britain and registered in England and Wales.
Copies of its report and accounts are available from: The Company Secretary Daily Mail and General Trust plc Northcliffe House, 2 Derry Street London W8 5TT www.
co. uk 22706.04 12 December 2013 Proof 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements Gr Group Accounts oup Accounts
