Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 103 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 1.
Corporate information Experian plc the Company, which is the ultimate parent company of the Experian group of companies Experian or the Group, is incorporated and registered in Jersey as a public company limited by shares and is resident in Ireland.
The Companys registered office is at 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, Jersey JE4 8PX.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchanges Regulated Market Premium Listing.
Experian is the leading global information services group.
There has been no change in this information since the annual report for the year ended 31 March 2012.
Basis of preparation These financial statements are: prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS or IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union the EU and IFRS Interpretations Committee interpretations: prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified for the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets and certain other financial assets and financial liabilities including derivatives: presented in US dollars, the most representative currency of the Groups operations, and rounded to the nearest million: prepared using the principal exchange rates set out in note 10: and designed to include disclosures sufficient to comply with those parts of the UK Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS even though the Company is incorporated and registered in Jersey.
This requires the use of critical accounting estimates and management judgment in applying the accounting policies.
Areas involving a higher degree of judgment or complexity, or where assumptions and estimates are significant to the Group financial statements, are given in note 6.
The financial statements of the Company are again prepared under UK accounting standards and set out on pages 160 to 169.
Comparative information Following a review of the Group assessment of risk and rewards, revenue from scores and value-added products in Latin America is now reported in Decision Analytics rather than in Credit Services and the results of these business segments shown within note 9 b have been re-presented.
The effect is to increase revenue and EBIT in Decision Analytics for the year ended 31 March 2012 by US$17m and US$7m respectively with equal and opposite decreases in the revenue and EBIT of Credit Services.
The above information represents a change since the annual report for the year ended 31 March 2012 but the impact is limited to note 9 b in these financial statements.
Recent accounting developments The information below is a summary of external accounting developments and their impact on the Group where significant.
The Group routinely reviews such developments and adapts its financial reporting systems as appropriate.
There were no accounting standards, amendments or interpretations that were effective for the first time in the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 and which had a material impact on those financial statements.
The following accounting standards, amendments and interpretations are effective for the first time for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2013.
The impact of Experian adopting IAS 19 revised with effect from 1 April 2013 is detailed in note 36.
IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements: IFRS 11 Joint arrangements: IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities: IFRS 13 Fair value measurement: Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures: Amendment to IAS 1 Financial statements presentation: IAS 27 revised Separate financial statements: IAS 28 revised Associate and joint ventures: Amendment to IAS 12 Income taxes: Amendments to IAS 19 revised Employee benefits: and Amendment to IAS 32 Financial instruments amendment on financial assets and liability offsetting.
104 Experian Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 4.
Recent accounting developments continued New or revised accounting standards and interpretations issued by 31 March 2013 but not yet effective include those listed below.
Improvements to IFRSs April 2011 : and IFRS 9 Financial instruments: classification and measurement.
Significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to both years presented.
Accordingly there has been no significant change in this information since the annual report for the year ended 31 March 2012.
For ease of reference, the material within this note is arranged as follows: Notes a to d material of general applicability in the preparation of these financial statements: Notes e to q balance sheet material to be read in conjunction with specific notes as indicated: Notes r to x income statement material to be read in conjunction with specific notes as indicated: and Note y the policy and presentation principles adopted for the disclosure of segment information in accordance with IFRS 8. a Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date that the Group no longer has control.
All business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
Intra-group transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries and segments are consistent with the policies adopted by the Group for the purposes of the Groups consolidation.
The Group financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 March 2013.
A list of the significant subsidiaries is given in note T to the parent company financial statements.
Non-controlling interests The non-controlling interests in the Group balance sheet represent the share of net assets of subsidiary undertakings held outside the Group.
The movement in the year comprises the profit attributable to such interests together with any dividends paid, movements in respect of corporate transactions and related exchange differences.
The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in a loss of control as transactions with equity owners of the Group.
For purchases from non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of the net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
Where put call option agreements are in place in respect of shares held by non-controlling shareholders, the put element of the liability is stated at the net present value of the expected future payments.
Such liabilities are shown as financial liabilities in the Group balance sheet.
The change in the net present value of such options in the year is recognised in the Group income statement within net finance costs, whilst any change in that value attributable to exchange rate movements is recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Associates Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally achieved by a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The equity method is used to account for investments in associates and investments are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups share of net assets of its associates and loans made to associates are included in the Group balance sheet.
The Groups share of post-acquisition profits or losses of associates is recognised in the Group income statement.
The Groups share of post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income in associates is recognised in other comprehensive income.
These cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
The carrying amount of an investment in an associate is tested for impairment by comparing its recoverable amount to its carrying amount whenever there is an indication that the investment may be impaired.
b Foreign currency translation Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in the functional currency of the relevant Group undertaking at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Translation differences on monetary items are taken to the Group income statement except when recognised in other comprehensive income, as qualifying net investment hedges or cash flow hedges.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 105 5.
Significant accounting policies continued Translation differences on non-monetary available-for-sale financial assets are reported as part of the fair value gains or losses in other comprehensive income.
Group undertakings The results and financial position of Group undertakings whose functional currencies are not US dollars are translated into US dollars as follows: Income and expenses are generally translated at the average exchange rate for the year.
Where this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, income and expenses are translated at the rates on the dates of the transactions.
Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing exchange rate on the balance sheet date.
All resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in Group undertakings whose functional currencies are not US dollars, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent that such hedges are effective.
Tax attributable to those exchange differences is taken directly to other comprehensive income.
When such undertakings are sold, these exchange differences are recognised in the Group income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of such undertakings are treated as assets and liabilities of the entities and are translated into US dollars at the closing exchange rate.
c Fair value estimation The fair values of derivative financial instruments and other financial assets and liabilities are determined by using market data and established estimation techniques such as discounted cash flow and option valuation models.
The fair value of foreign exchange contracts is based on a comparison of the contractual and year end exchange rates.
The fair values of other derivative financial instruments are estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present values using appropriate market rates prevailing at the year end.
d Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that are not subject to amortisation or depreciation are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment charge is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell, and value-in-use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped into cash generating units CGUs, determined by the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
e Goodwill note 21 Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment, where cost is the excess of the fair value of the consideration payable for an acquisition over the fair value at the date of acquisition of the Groups share of identifiable net assets of a subsidiary or associate acquired.
Fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition at that date.
Adjustments are made where necessary to align the accounting policies of acquired businesses with those of the Group.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
An impairment charge is recognised for any amount by which the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its recoverable amount.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is separately recognised in the Group balance sheet.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in the carrying amount of the investment.
Goodwill is allocated to CGUs and monitored for internal management purposes by operating segment.
The allocation is made to those CGUs or groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Where the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment charge is recognised in the Group income statement.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an undertaking include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the undertaking sold, allocated where necessary on the basis of relative fair value.
f Other intangible assets note 22 Acquisition intangibles Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised on acquisition at fair value separately from goodwill, if those assets are identifiable, separable or arise from legal rights and their fair value can be measured reliably.
Such assets are referred to as acquisition intangibles within these financial statements.
Amortisation of such assets is charged on a straight line basis as follows: Customer and other relationships over three to eighteen years based on managements estimates of the average lives of such relationships: and Acquired software development over three to eight years based on the expected life of the asset.
106 Experian Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 5.
Significant accounting policies continued Marketing-related acquisition intangibles: Trademarks and licences over their contractual lives up to a maximum period of twenty years: and Trade names over three to fourteen years based on managements expectations to retain trade names within the business.
Other intangibles Other intangibles are capitalised at cost.
Certain costs incurred in the developmental phase of an internal project are capitalised provided that a number of criteria are satisfied.
These include the technical feasibility of completing the asset so that it is available for use or sale, the availability of adequate resources to complete the development and to use or sell the asset, and how the asset will generate probable future economic benefit.
The cost of such assets with finite useful economic or contractual lives is amortised on a straight line basis over those lives.
The carrying values are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
If impaired, the carrying values are written down to the higher of fair value less costs to sell, and value-in-use which is determined by reference to projected future income streams using assumptions in respect of profitability and growth.
Further details on the capitalisation and amortisation policy for the key asset classifications within other intangibles are: Databases capitalised databases, which comprise the data purchase and data capture costs of internally developed databases, are amortised over three to seven years.
Computer software internal use software computer software licences purchased for internal use are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to purchase and bring into use the specific software.
These costs are amortised over three to ten years.
Computer software internally generated software costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will generate economic benefits beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Research expenditure, together with other costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software programmes, is recognised in the Group income statement as incurred.
g Property, plant and equipment note 23 Property, plant and equipment is held at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and amounts attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Such leases are capitalised at inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to depreciate the cost, less estimated residual value based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date, of each asset evenly over its expected useful life as follows: Freehold properties 50 years: Short leasehold properties the remaining period of the lease: Finance leases over the lower of the useful life of the equipment and period of the lease: and Other plant and equipment three to ten years according to the estimated life of the asset.
Technology based assets are typically depreciated over three to five years with other infrastructure assets depreciated over five to ten years.
h Trade receivables note 26 Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at this value less any provision for impairment.
Where the time value of money is material, receivables are then carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
Such evidence is based primarily on the pattern of cash received compared to the terms upon which the receivable is contracted.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the carrying amount and the value of estimated future cash flows.
Any charges or credits in respect of such provisions and irrecoverable trade receivables are recognised in the Group income statement within other operating charges.
i Cash and cash equivalents note 27 Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, term and call deposits held with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the Group balance sheet.
For the purposes of the Group cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are reported net of bank overdrafts.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 107 5.
Significant accounting policies continued j Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets in the four categories set out below, with the classification determined at initial recognition and dependent on the purpose for which such assets are acquired.
Loans and receivables note 32 Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities more than one year after the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
Derivatives used for hedging note 32 Derivative financial assets used for hedging are included in current assets, except for maturities more than one year after the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
Derivatives utilised by the Group include interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, foreign exchange contracts and equity swaps.
Assets at fair value through profit and loss note 32 Assets at fair value through profit and loss comprise non-hedging derivative financial instruments.
Available-for-sale financial assets note 31 Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated to this category or not classified in the other financial asset categories.
They are carried at fair value and are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the assets within one year of the balance sheet date.
k Derivative financial instruments note 32 The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposures to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and certain obligations, including social security obligations, relating to share incentive plans.
Such instruments utilised by the Group include interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, foreign exchange contracts and equity swaps.
These are recognised as assets or liabilities as appropriate and are classified as non-current unless they mature within one year after the balance sheet date.
Derivatives are initially recognised at their fair value at the date a contract is entered into, and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the hedge relationship.
The Group designates certain derivatives as: Fair value hedges hedges of the fair value of a recognised asset or liability or a firm commitment: or Cash flow hedges hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction: or Net investment hedges hedges of a net investment in an operation whose functional currency is not US dollars.
The Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items at the hedge inception, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment as to whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values of hedged items.
This effectiveness testing is performed at every reporting date throughout the life of the hedge to confirm that the hedge remains, and will continue to remain, highly effective.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate swaps are taken to net finance costs over the period of the contracts, together with the interest differentials reflected in foreign exchange contracts.
Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedging instruments are recognised in the Group income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The ineffective portion of a fair value hedge is recognised in net finance costs in the Group income statement.
Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in total operating expenses in the Group income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified in the Group income statement in the period when the hedged item impacts the Group income statement.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
108 Experian Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 5.
Significant accounting policies continued When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss included in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Group income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was included in equity is transferred immediately to the Group income statement.
Net investment hedges Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge of a net investment in an undertaking whose functional currency is not US dollars is recognised in other comprehensive income with the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion recognised in net finance costs in the Group income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the Group income statement on the disposal of the undertaking.
Non-hedging derivatives Changes in the fair value of such derivative instruments are recognised immediately in the Group income statement.
Costs and income amounts in respect of derivatives entered into in connection with social security obligations on employee share incentive plans, other than amounts of a financing nature, are charged or credited within labour costs.
Other costs and changes in fair value of such derivatives are charged or credited within financing fair value remeasurements in the Group income statement.
l Borrowings note 29 Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of any transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost except where they are hedged by an effective fair value hedge, in which case the carrying value is adjusted to reflect the fair value movements associated with the hedged risk.
Borrowings are classified as non-current to the extent that the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least one year after the balance sheet date.
m Trade payables note 28 Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value.
Where the time value of money is material, payables are then carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
n Retirement benefit assets and obligations note 36 Defined benefit pension arrangements funded plans The retirement benefit assets and obligations recognised in the Group balance sheet in respect of funded plans comprise the fair value of plan assets of funded plans less the present value of the related defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, together with adjustments for past service costs.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
Under this method, and in view of the fact that the principal Experian funded plan is closed to new entrants, the current service cost increases as members approach retirement due to the ageing active membership of the plan.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using market yields available at the assessment date on high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity consistent with the estimated average term of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised immediately in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
The pension cost recognised in the Group income statement comprises the cost of benefits accrued plus interest on the defined benefit obligation less the expected return on the plan assets over the year.
Service costs and financing income and expenses are recognised separately in the Group income statement.
Plan expenses are deducted from the expected return on the plan assets over the year.
Defined benefit pension arrangements unfunded plans Unfunded pension obligations are determined and accounted for in accordance with the principles used in respect of the funded arrangements.
Defined contribution pension arrangements The assets of defined contribution plans are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds.
The pension cost recognised in the Group income statement represents the contributions payable by the Group to these funds in respect of the year.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 109 5.
Significant accounting policies continued Post-retirement healthcare obligations Obligations in respect of post-retirement healthcare plans are calculated annually by independent qualified actuaries using an actuarial methodology similar to that for the funded defined benefit pension arrangements.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
The pension cost recognised in the Group income statement only comprises interest on the obligation.
o Provisions note 39 Where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pretax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
p Own shares note 42 Shares in the Company purchased in connection with any share buyback programme, and held as treasury shares, are shown as a deduction from total equity at cost.
The Group has a number of equity settled, share-based employee incentive plans and, in this connection, own shares are held by The Experian plc Employee Share Trust and the Experian UK Approved All-Employee Share Plan.
The assets of the trusts mainly comprise shares in the Company and such shares are also shown as a deduction from total equity at cost.
q Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale note 17 Assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale when their carrying amounts are to be recovered or settled principally through a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated at the lower of the carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
r Revenue recognition Revenue represents the fair value of consideration receivable on the sale of goods and services, net of value added tax and other sales taxes, rebates and discounts.
Revenue includes the provision and processing of data, subscriptions to services, software and database customisation and development and the sale of software licences, maintenance and related consulting services.
Revenue in respect of the provision and processing of data is recognised in the year in which the service is provided.
Subscription revenues, and revenues in respect of services to be provided by an indeterminate number of acts over a specified period of time, are recognised on a straight line basis over those periods.
Customisation, development and consulting revenues are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the work generally on the basis of costs incurred to date as a percentage of estimated total costs.
Revenue from software licences is recognised upon delivery.
Revenue from maintenance agreements is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the maintenance period.
Where a single arrangement comprises a number of individual elements which are capable of operating independently of one another, the total revenues are allocated amongst the individual elements based on an estimate of the fair value of each element.
Where the elements are not capable of operating independently, or reasonable measures of fair value for each element are not available, total revenues are recognised on a straight line basis over the contract period to reflect the timing of services performed.
Sales are generally invoiced in the geographic area in which the customer is located and accordingly the geographic location of the invoicing undertaking is used as the basis for attributing revenue to individual countries.
s Operating charges Operating charges are reported by nature in the Group income statement as this reflects the composition of the Groups cost base and cost management globally.
Details of charges in respect of share incentive plans within labour costs are set out in note v below: those for pension and other post employment benefits are set out in note n above.
Details of the Groups depreciation and amortisation policy are given in notes f and g above.
Payments made under operating leases are charged in the Group income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Incentives from lessors are recognised as a systematic reduction of the charge over the period of the lease.
t Net finance costs note 15 Incremental transaction costs which are directly attributable to the issue of debt are capitalised and amortised over the expected life of the borrowing using the effective interest rate method.
All other borrowing costs are charged in the Group income statement in the year in which they are incurred.
The interest element of finance lease payments is charged in the Group income statement over the lease period.
110 Experian Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 5.
Significant accounting policies continued Details of the nature of movements in the fair value of derivatives which are reported as financial fair value remeasurements are included in note k above.
As indicated in note a above, the change in the year in the net present value of put call option agreements in place in respect of shares held by non-controlling shareholders is recognised within net finance costs and reported therein as financial fair value remeasurements.
u Tax note 16 The tax charge or credit for the year is recognised in the Group income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
In such cases the tax is recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity as appropriate.
Current income tax is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the Group operates.
Current tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Group financial statements.
Deferred tax is not recognised on taxable temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill.
Deferred tax that arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, is not accounted for.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised in respect of tax losses carried forward and other temporary differences to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and where they relate to the same tax authority.
v Share incentive plans note 35 The fair value of share awards and options granted in connection with the Groups equity settled, share-based employee incentive plans is recognised as an expense in the Group income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
Fair value is measured using whichever of the Black-Scholes model, Monte Carlo model and closing market price is most appropriate.
The Group takes into account the best estimate of the number of awards and options expected to vest and such estimates are revised at each balance sheet date.
Nonmarket performance conditions are included in the vesting estimates.
Market-based performance conditions are included in the fair value measurement but are not revised for actual performance.
w Contingent consideration The initially recorded cost of any acquisition includes a reasonable estimate of the fair value of any contingent amounts expected to be payable in the future.
Any cost or benefit arising when such estimates are revised is recognised in the Group income statement see note 14.
Where part or all of the amount of disposal consideration is contingent on future events, the disposal proceeds initially recorded include a reasonable estimate of the fair value of the contingent amounts expected to be receivable and payable in the future.
The proceeds and profit or loss on disposal are adjusted when revised estimates are made, with corresponding adjustments made to debtors and creditors as appropriate, until the ultimate outcome is known and the related consideration received see notes 17 and 47. x Discontinued operations note 17 A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate geographic area of operation or a separate major line of business.
Classification as a discontinued operation occurs upon disposal or earlier, if the operation meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale under IFRS 5. y Segment information policy and presentation principles note 9 Experian is organised into, and managed on a worldwide basis over, the following five operating segments, based on geographic areas, supported by its central functions: North America: Latin America: UK and Ireland: Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA : and Asia Pacific.
The chief operating decision maker assesses the performance of the above operating segments on the basis of EBIT, as defined in note 7.
The All other segments category required to be disclosed has been captioned in these financial statements as EMEA Asia Pacific.
This combines information in respect of the EMEA and the Asia Pacific segments as, on the basis of their share of the Groups results and net assets, neither of these operating segments is individually reportable.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 111 5.
Significant accounting policies continued Experian separately presents information equivalent to segment disclosures in respect of the costs of its central functions under the caption of Central Activities, as management believes that the reporting of this information is helpful to users of the financial statements.
Information disclosed under Central Activities includes costs arising from finance, treasury and other global functions.
Inter-segment transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would also be available to unrelated third parties.
There is no material impact from inter-segment transactions on the Groups results.
Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets including goodwill, inventories, derivatives designated as hedges of future commercial transactions, and receivables.
They exclude tax assets, cash and cash equivalents and derivatives designated as hedges of borrowings.
Segment liabilities comprise operating liabilities, including derivatives designated as hedges of future commercial transactions.
They exclude tax liabilities, borrowings and related hedging derivatives.
Capital employed is now defined as net assets excluding net debt and tax balances.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, excluding additions resulting from acquisitions through business combinations.
Information required to be presented additionally includes analysis of the Groups revenues over groups of service lines.
This is supplemented by voluntary disclosure of the profitability of those same groups of service lines and, for ease of reference, Experian continues to use the term business segments when discussing the results of groups of service lines.
The four business segments for Experian, details of which are given in the business overview section of this annual report, are: Credit Services: Decision Analytics: Marketing Services: and Consumer Services.
In the annual report for the year ended 31 March 2012, the Consumer Services business segment was styled Interactive.
The North America and the UK and Ireland operating segments derive revenues from all of the Groups business segments.
The Latin America, EMEA and Asia Pacific segments currently do not derive revenue from the Consumer Services business segment.
Reportable segment information for the full year provided to the chief operating decision maker is set out in note 9 a.
Critical accounting estimates and judgments a Critical accounting estimates and assumptions In preparing the Group financial statements, management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities.
The resulting accounting estimates, which are based on managements best judgment at the date of the Group financial statements, will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are summarised below.
There has been no change in this information since the annual report for the year ended 31 March 2012 and revenue recognition is accordingly again excluded from this summary on the grounds that the policy adopted in this area is sufficiently objective.
Tax note 16 The Group is subject to tax in numerous jurisdictions.
significant judgment is required in determining the related assets or provisions as there are transactions in the ordinary course of business and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities based on estimates of whether additional tax will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recognised, such differences will impact on the results for the year and the respective income tax and deferred tax assets or provisions in the year in which such determination is made.
The Group recognises tax assets based on forecasts of future profits against which those assets may be utilised.
Goodwill note 21 The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the goodwill may be impaired.
The recoverable amount of each CGU is generally determined on the basis of value-in-use calculations which require the use of cash flow projections based on approved financial budgets, looking forward up to five years.
Management determines budgeted gross margin based on past performance and its expectations for the market development.
Cash ows are extrapolated using estimated growth rates beyond a five year period.
The growth rates used do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the markets in which the segment operates.
The discount rates used reflect the segments pre-tax weighted average cost of capital WACC.
112 Experian Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 6.
Critical accounting estimates and judgments continued Fair value of derivatives and other financial instruments note 32 The fair value of derivatives and other financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over-the-counter derivatives is determined using valuation techniques.
The Group uses its judgment to select a variety of methods and makes assumptions, or uses observable market based inputs, that are mainly based on market conditions at each balance sheet date.
Share incentive plans note 35 The assumptions used in determining the amounts charged in the Group income statement include judgments in respect of performance conditions and length of service together with future share prices, dividend and interest yields and exercise patterns.
Pension benets note 36 The present value of the defined benefit assets and obligations and net pension costs depend on factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions.
These include the expected rate of return on the plan assets and the discount rate.
Any changes in these assumptions may impact on the amounts disclosed in the Group financial statements.
The expected return on plan assets is calculated by reference to the plan investments at the balance sheet date and is a weighted average of the expected returns on each main asset type based on market yields available on these asset types at the balance sheet date.
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year.
This is the interest rate used to calculate the present value of estimated future cash outows expected to be required to settle the defined benefit obligations.
In determining the discount rate, the Group has considered the prevailing market yields of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benets will be paid, and that have terms to maturity consistent with the estimated average term of the related pension liability.
Management has accordingly determined the appropriate discount rate by consideration of an AA rated corporate bond yield curve and the estimated future cash outflows.
Other key assumptions for defined benefit obligations and pension costs are based in part on market conditions at the relevant balance sheet dates and additional information is given in note 36. b Critical judgments Management has made judgments in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Group financial statements.
These judgments include the classification of transactions between the Group income statement and the Group balance sheet.
The most significant of these judgments is in respect of intangible assets where certain costs incurred in the developmental phase of an internal project are capitalised if a number of criteria are met.
Management has made judgments and assumptions when assessing whether a project meets these criteria, and on measuring the costs and the economic life attributed to such projects.
On acquisition, specific intangible assets are identified and recognised separately from goodwill and then amortised over their estimated useful lives.
These include such items as brand names and customer lists, to which value is first attributed at the time of acquisition.
The capitalisation of these assets and the related amortisation charges are based on judgments about the value and economic life of such items.
The economic lives for intangible assets are estimated at between three and ten years for internal projects, which include databases, internal use software and internally generated software, and between two and twenty years for acquisition intangibles.
Further details of the amounts of, and movements in, such assets are given in note 22.
Use of non-GAAP measures in the Group financial statements The Group has identified certain measures that it believes assist understanding of the performance of the business.
The measures are not defined under IFRS and they may not be directly comparable with other companies adjusted measures.
The non-GAAP measures are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, any IFRS measures of performance but management has included them as they consider them to be key measures used within the business for assessing performance.
The following are the key non-GAAP measures used in the Group financial statements.
The only additions to this list of definitions since the annual report for the year ended 31 March 2012 are definitions of EBITDA, the Benchmark tax charge and rate, free cash flow and cash flow conversion.
These definitions have been added for the sake of completeness.
Benchmark profit before tax Benchmark PBT Benchmark PBT is defined as profit before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, acquisition expenses, goodwill impairments, adjustments to contingent consideration, charges in respect of the demerger-related share incentive plans, exceptional items, financing fair value remeasurements, tax and discontinued operations.
It includes the Groups share of continuing associates pre-tax results.
Earnings before interest and tax EBIT EBIT is defined as profit before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, acquisition expenses, goodwill impairments, adjustments to contingent consideration, charges in respect of the demerger-related share incentive plans, exceptional items, net finance costs, tax and discontinued operations.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 113 7.
Use of non-GAAP measures in the Group financial statements continued Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA EBITDA is defined as EBIT before depreciation and amortisation, less amortisation of acquisition intangibles.
Benchmark earnings Benchmark earnings represents Benchmark PBT less attributable tax and non-controlling interests.
Benchmark earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests represents that portion of Benchmark earnings that relate to non-controlling interests.
Benchmark PBT less attributable tax is designated as Overall benchmark earnings.
The attributable tax for the purposes of determining Benchmark earnings excludes significant tax credits and charges arising in the year which, in view of their size or nature, are not comparable with previous years together with tax arising on exceptional items and on total adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT.
Benchmark earnings per share Benchmark EPS Benchmark EPS represents Benchmark earnings divided by a weighted average number of ordinary shares, and is disclosed to indicate the underlying profitability of the Group.
Benchmark tax charge and rate The Benchmark tax charge is defined as the total tax charge or credit as reported in the Group income statement, adjusted for the tax impact of non-Benchmark items.
The related effective rate of tax is calculated by dividing the Benchmark tax charge by Benchmark PBT.
Exceptional items The separate reporting of non-recurring exceptional items gives an indication of the Groups underlying performance.
Exceptional items are those arising from the profit or loss on disposal of businesses, closure costs of major business units and costs of significant restructuring programmes.
All other restructuring costs are charged against EBIT in the segments in which they are incurred.
Operating and free cash flow Operating cash flow is calculated as cash generated from operations adjusted for outflows in respect of acquisition expenses, the purchase and disposal of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets and adding dividends from continuing associates but excluding any cash flows in respect of exceptional items.
It is reconciled to cash generated from operations in note 44 j.
Operating cash flow is defined as EBIT from continuing operations, plus depreciation, amortisation and charges in respect of share incentive plans within Benchmark PBT, less capital expenditure net of disposal proceeds and further adjusted for changes in working capital and profit or loss retained in continuing associates.
Free cash flow is derived from operating cash flow by excluding net interest, tax paid in respect of continuing operations and dividends paid to non-controlling interests.
Cash flow conversion Cash flow conversion is defined as operating cash flow expressed as a percentage of EBIT.
Net debt Net debt is calculated as total debt less cash and cash equivalents and other highly liquid bank deposits with original maturities greater than three months.
Total debt includes borrowings and the fair value of derivatives hedging borrowings, overdrafts and obligations under finance leases.
Accrued interest is excluded from net debt.
Financial risk management a Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and price risk : credit risk: and liquidity risk.
These risks are unchanged from those reported in the annual report for the year ended 31 March 2012 but the narrative below now excludes information in respect of the Serasa put option, as that was settled during the year ended 31 March 2013 see note 33.
The numeric disclosures in respect of financial risks are now included within later notes to the financial statements, rather than within this note as previously, so as to provide a more transparent linkage of financial risks and results.
Financial risks represent part of the Groups risks in relation to its strategy and business objectives and a full discussion of all such risks is contained within the separate protecting our business section of the annual report.
The Groups financial risk management focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potentially adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group seeks to reduce its exposure to financial risks and uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
The Group also ensures surplus funds are managed and controlled in a prudent manner which will protect capital sums invested and ensure adequate short-term liquidity.
114 Experian Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 8.
Financial risk management continued Market risk Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and investments in, and loans between, undertakings with different functional currencies.
The Group manages such risk, primarily within undertakings whose functional currencies are US dollars, by borrowing in the relevant currencies and using forward foreign exchange contracts.
The principal transaction exposures are to sterling and the euro and an indication of the sensitivity to foreign exchange risk is given in note 10.
Interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises principally from its net debt and the portions thereof at variable rates which expose the Group to such risk.
The Group has a policy of normally maintaining between 50% and 100% previously between 30% and 70% of net funding at rates that are fixed for more than six months.
Net funding for this purpose is the total funding less freely available unrestricted cash.
The Groups interest rate exposure is managed by the use of fixed and floating rate borrowings and by the use of interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps to adjust the balance of fixed and floating rate liabilities.
The Group also mixes the duration of its borrowings to smooth the impact of interest rate fluctuations.
Further information in respect of the Groups net finance costs for the year and an indication of the sensitivity to interest rate risk is given in note 15.
Price risk The Group is exposed to price risk in connection with investments classified as available-for-sale financial assets and an indication of the sensitivity to price risk is given in note 31. Credit risk In the case of derivative financial instruments, deposits and trade receivables, the Group is exposed to credit risk from the non-performance of contractual agreements by the contracted party.
The credit risk for derivative financial instruments and deposits is minimised by a policy under which the Group only enters into such contracts with banks and financial institutions with strong credit ratings, within limits set for each organisation.
Dealing and deposit activity is closely controlled and counterparty positions are monitored regularly.
The general credit risk on derivative financial instruments utilised and deposits held by the Group is therefore not considered to be significant.
The Group does not anticipate that any losses will arise from non-performance by these counterparties.
Further information in respect of the Groups derivative financial instruments at the balance sheet dates is given in note 32 and information in respect of amounts recognised in the Group income statement is given in note 15.
Further information in respect of the Groups deposits at the balance sheet dates is given in note 27.
In order to minimise credit risk for trade receivables, the Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential clients before granting credit.
The maximum credit risk in respect of such financial assets is the carrying value of the assets.
Further information in respect of the Groups trade receivables is given in note 26.
Liquidity risk The Group maintains long-term committed borrowing facilities to ensure it has sufficient funds available for operations and planned expansions.
The Group monitors rolling forecasts of projected cash flows to ensure that it will have adequate undrawn committed facilities available.
Details of the facilities available to the Group and their utilisation at the balance sheet date are given in note 29.
The maturity analysis of financial liabilities is given in note 34. b Capital risk management The Groups definition and management of capital focuses on capital employed and the Groups capital employed is reported in the net assets summary table set out in the financial review and analysed further in note 9.
The Groups objectives in managing capital are to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure and cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue or purchase shares or sell assets to reduce net debt.
As part of its internal reporting processes the Group monitors capital employed by operating segment.
The Group manages its working capital and capital expenditure with the aim of converting at least 90% of EBIT into operating cash flow and has exceeded this target in the current and prior year.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 115 9.
Segment information a IFRS 8 disclosures i Income statement 2 Continuing operations North Latin UK & EMEA Total Central Total Year ended 31 March 2013 America America Ireland Asia Pacific operating Activities continuing segments operations US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Revenue from external customers 2,258 1,001 873 598 4,730 4,730 Reconciliation from EBIT to profit loss before tax continuing operations EBIT 718 346 246 24 1,334 81 1,253 Net interest note 15 b 58 58 Benchmark PBT 718 346 246 24 1,334 139 1,195 Exceptional items note 13 23 1 9 33 66 66 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles note 14 32 53 21 17 123 123 Acquisition expenses note 14 1 1 1 1 4 4 Adjustment to the fair value of contingent consideration note 14 1 1 1 Financing fair value remeasurements note 15 c 561 561 Profit loss before tax 662 291 215 28 1,140 700 440 2 Continuing operations North Latin UK & EMEA Total Central Total Year ended 31 March 2012 America America Ireland Asia Pacific operating Activities continuing segments operations US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Revenue from external customers 2,092 961 825 609 4,487 4,487 Reconciliation from EBIT to profit loss before tax continuing operations EBIT 658 320 227 44 1,249 74 1,175 Net interest note 15 b 47 47 Benchmark PBT 658 320 227 44 1,249 121 1,128 Exceptional items note 13 6 2 8 4 12 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles note 14 32 52 18 20 122 122 Acquisition expenses note 14 1 3 2 3 9 9 Adjustment to the fair value of contingent consideration note 14 3 3 3 Charges in respect of the demerger-related share incentive plans 2 2 4 1 5 Financing fair value remeasurements note 15 c 318 318 Profit loss before tax 623 268 211 23 1,125 436 689 1.
Revenue from external customers arose principally from the provision of services.
There is no material inter-segment revenue.
The analysis by business segment of revenue from external customers is given within note 9 b.
A loss before tax of US$5m 2012: US$9m arose in respect of discontinued operations.
Further information on such operations which comprise the Groups comparison shopping and lead generation businesses is given in note 17.
116 Experian Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 9.
Segment information continued ii Balance sheet Net assets liabilities North Latin UK & EMEA Segment Central Total At 31 March 2013 America America Ireland Asia Pacific assets Activities Group 1 liabilities and other US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Goodwill 1,810 1,214 660 373 4,057 4,057 Investments in associates 2 10 9 21 21 Other assets 1,074 837 535 391 2,837 1,280 4,117 Total assets 2,886 2,061 1,195 773 6,915 1,280 8,195 Total liabilities 487 219 324 277 1,307 3,664 4,971 Net assets liabilities 2,399 1,842 871 496 5,608 2,384 3,224 North Latin UK & EMEA Segment Central Total At 31 March 2012 America America Ireland Asia Pacific assets Activities Group 1 liabilities and other US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Goodwill 1,778 1,322 686 377 4,163 4,163 Investments in associates 2 10 1 13 13 Other assets 1,061 895 600 452 3,008 970 3,978 Total assets 2,841 2,227 1,286 830 7,184 970 8,154 Total liabilities 485 244 328 275 1,332 3,891 5,223 Net assets liabilities 2,356 1,983 958 555 5,852 2,921 2,931 Central Activities and other comprise: 2013 2012 Assets Liabilities Net assets Assets Liabilities Net assets liabilities liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Central Activities 285 160 125 277 150 127 2 Net present value of Serasa put option 1,092 1,092 Net debt 303 3,241 2,938 358 2,176 1,818 Tax 692 263 429 335 473 138 Central Activities and other 1,280 3,664 2,384 970 3,891 2,921 1.
Net assets for Central Activities comprise corporate head office balances including retirement benefit assets and obligations and derivative assets and liabilities.
The put option in respect of the non-controlling interest in Serasa was settled in connection with the acquisition of this interest in the year ended 31 March 2013.
The tax liability at 31 March 2012 included a net liability of US$33m classified as held for sale note 17.
Other assets and liabilities classified as held for sale at 31 March 2012 were principally reported in the North America operating segment.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 117 9.
Segment information continued Capital employed 2013 2012 US$m US$m North America 2,399 2,356 Latin America 1,842 1,983 UK and Ireland 871 958 EMEA Asia Pacific 496 555 Total operating segments 5,608 5,852 Central Activities 125 127 Total Group 5,733 5,979 iii Capital expenditure, depreciation and amortisation Capital expenditure Depreciation Amortisation 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m North America 181 159 36 31 97 96 Latin America 116 141 15 16 69 66 UK and Ireland 78 74 18 16 33 33 EMEA Asia Pacific 58 60 10 10 34 32 Total operating segments 433 434 79 73 233 227 Central Activities 27 30 2 2 15 8 460 464 81 75 248 235 1.
Capital expenditure is stated before receipts in the form of landlord incentives see note 44 j.
Depreciation and amortisation within the above analysis only include amounts charged to Benchmark PBT.
Additional capital expenditure of US$nil 2012: US$3m, depreciation of US$nil 2012: US$4m and amortisation of US$nil 2012: US$2m arose in respect of discontinued operations in the North America segment.
Further information on such operations is given in note 17. iv Revenue by country continuing operations 2013 2012 US$m US$m USA 2,255 2,089 Brazil 866 900 UK 865 815 Colombia 111 48 Other 633 635 4,730 4,487 1.
No single customer accounted for 10% or more of the Groups revenue from external customers in the current or prior year.
The Company is resident in Ireland.
The Groups revenue is primarily attributable to foreign countries as revenue with Irish external customers represents less than 1% of the Groups revenue from external customers.
Non-current assets for Central Activities, which include derivative financial assets, and deferred tax have been excluded from the analysis by country to add clarity to the presentation of this information.
The Group has no significant non-current assets located in Ireland.
118 Experian Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 9.
Segment information continued b Information on business segments including non-GAAP disclosures 2 Continuing operations Credit Decision Marketing Consumer Total Central Total Year ended 31 March 2013 Services Analytics Services Services business Activities continuing segments operations US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Revenue from external customers 2,194 512 1,009 1,015 4,730 4,730 Reconciliation from EBIT to profit loss before tax continuing operations EBIT 768 109 146 311 1,334 81 1,253 Net interest note 15 b 58 58 Benchmark PBT 768 109 146 311 1,334 139 1,195 Exceptional items note 13 29 14 20 3 66 66 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles note 14 71 5 28 19 123 123 Acquisition expenses note 14 2 1 1 4 4 Adjustment to the fair value of contingent consideration note 14 1 1 1 Financing fair value remeasurements note 15 c 561 561 Profit loss before tax 666 89 96 289 1,140 700 440 2 Continuing operations Credit Decision Marketing Consumer Total Central Total Year ended 31 March 2012 Services Analytics Services Services business Activities continuing segments operations US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Revenue from external customers 2,116 493 949 929 4,487 4,487 Reconciliation from EBIT to profit loss before tax continuing operations EBIT 721 114 146 268 1,249 74 1,175 Net interest note 15 b 47 47 Benchmark PBT 721 114 146 268 1,249 121 1,128 Exceptional items note 13 2 6 8 4 12 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles note 14 72 4 31 15 122 122 Acquisition expenses note 14 4 1 3 1 9 9 Adjustment to the fair value of contingent consideration note 14 3 3 3 Charges in respect of the demerger-related share incentive plans 5 5 Financing fair value remeasurements note 15 c 318 318 Profit loss before tax 645 111 121 252 1,129 440 689 1.
As indicated in note 3, within continuing operations, revenue and EBIT in Decision Analytics for the year ended 31 March 2012 have been increased by US$17m and US$7m respectively with equal and opposite decreases in the revenue and EBIT of Credit Services.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 119 10.
Foreign currency a Principal exchange rates used Average Closing 2013 2012 2013 2012 2011 Sterling : US dollar 1.58 1.60 1.52 1.60 1.60 US dollar : Brazilian real 1.70 1.82 1.63 2.01 2.02 Euro : US dollar 1.29 1.38 1.28 1.33 1.42 b Foreign exchange risk The following table quantifies the Groups sensitivity to foreign exchange risk on the basis of the profile of foreign exchange transaction exposures, and an assessment of reasonably possible changes in such exposures.
In making this assessment, the Group has considered data on movements in relevant currencies.
Foreign exchange exposure 2013 2012 US$m US$m Effect of sterling strengthening weakening by 3% 2012: 9% against US dollar: On profit for the financial year On other comprehensive income and other components of equity Effect of euro strengthening weakening by 6% 2012: 8% against US dollar: On profit for the financial year 1 On other comprehensive income and other components of equity The Group has investments in undertakings with functional currencies other than the US dollar, whose net assets are exposed to foreign exchange translation risk.
To reduce the impact of currency fluctuations on the value of such entities, the Group has a policy of borrowing in sterling and euros, as well as in US dollars, and of entering into forward foreign exchange contracts in the relevant currencies.
The sensitivity reported above in respect of sterling against the US dollar is wholly attributable to such net exposures.
Otherwise the analysis excludes the impact of foreign exchange risk on the translation of the net assets of such undertakings.
Total operating expenses a Labour costs continuing operations 2013 2012 US$m US$m Wages and salaries 1,302 1,222 Social security costs 212 194 Share incentive plans note 35 78 65 Pension costs defined benefit plans note 36 7 9 Pension costs defined contribution plans 45 45 Employee benefit costs 1,644 1,535 Other labour costs 189 164 1,833 1,699 Other labour costs include costs in respect of external contractors, outsourcing costs and costs relating to the recruitment, development and training of employees.
The definition, and analysis of the remuneration, of key management personnel is given in note 51. b Depreciation and amortisation continuing operations 2013 2012 US$m US$m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 81 75 Amortisation of intangible assets including exceptional asset write-offs of US$13m 2012: US$nil 384 359 465 434 120 Experian Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 11.
Total operating expenses continued c Fees payable to the Companys auditor 2013 2012 US$m US$m Audit of the parent company and Group financial statements 0.5 0.5 Audit of the financial statements of the parent companys subsidiaries 3.3 3.2 Tax compliance services 0.4 0.4 Tax advisory services 1.8 1.2 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.2 Other assurance services 1.0 1.6 Total fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates 7.2 6.9 Summary of fees by nature: Fees for audit and assurance services 4.8 5.3 Fees for other services 2.4 1.6 Total fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates 7.2 6.9 The guidelines covering the use of the Companys auditor for non-audit services are set out in the corporate governance report and in the year ended 31 March 2013 fees payable for such services were 50% 2012: 30% of fees payable for audit and assurance services.
All such fees are included within other operating charges.
Average monthly number of employees including executive directors continuing operations 2013 2012 Full time Part time Full time Full time Part time Full time equivalent equivalent North America 5,879 66 5,912 5,493 86 5,536 Latin America 3,428 118 3,487 2,915 130 2,980 UK and Ireland 3,445 287 3,588 3,386 262 3,517 EMEA Asia Pacific 3,951 111 4,007 3,838 88 3,882 Total operating segments 16,703 582 16,994 15,632 566 15,915 Central Activities 120 9 125 105 11 110 Total continuing operations 16,823 591 17,119 15,737 577 16,025 Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 121 13.
Exceptional items continuing operations 2013 2012 US$m US$m Restructuring costs 54 Loss gain on disposal of businesses 12 8 Interest income arising on legacy tax balances 4 Total exceptional items 66 12 By income statement caption: Labour costs 41 Depreciation and amortisation 13 Other operating charges 12 8 Within operating profit 66 8 Within net finance costs 4 Total exceptional items 66 12 The Group conducted a strategic review of its cost base during the year ended 31 March 2013.
Examples of efficiencies that it expects to realise include re-engineering fixed costs, reducing exposure to lower growth markets, further near-shoring and off-shoring, and rationalisation of lower growth legacy products.
One-off restructuring costs associated with achieving these efficiencies will be in the region of US$110m, the majority of which will be cash costs.
Costs of US$54m have been recognised in the year ended 31 March 2013 in connection with this programme with a related cash outflow of US$27m.
Of this charge, US$41m related to redundancy costs and US$13m related to asset write-offs.
The loss on disposal of businesses in the year ended 31 March 2013 related to a number of small disposals.
The gain on disposal of businesses in the year ended 31 March 2012 related to a number of small disposals of businesses, principally the disposal of an investment classified as available-for-sale at 31 March 2011.
There were related cash inflows of US$5m 2012: US$12m.
Interest income of US$4m arose on the determination of certain legacy tax balances in the year ended 31 March 2012.
A reconciliation of total exceptional items to the cash outflow in respect of exceptional items, other than on the disposal of businesses, is given in note 44 c. 122 Experian Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 14.
Other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT continuing operations 2013 2012 US$m US$m Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 123 122 Acquisition expenses 4 9 Adjustment to the fair value of contingent consideration 1 3 Charges in respect of the demerger-related share incentive plans 5 Financing fair value remeasurements note 15 c 561 318 Other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT 689 451 By income statement caption: Labour costs 5 Depreciation and amortisation 123 122 Other operating charges 5 6 Within operating profit 128 133 Finance expense 561 318 Other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT 689 451 On acquisition, specific intangible assets are identified and recognised separately from goodwill and then amortised over their useful economic lives.
These include items such as brand names and customer lists, to which value is first attributed at the time of acquisition.
The Group has excluded amortisation of these acquisition intangibles from its definition of Benchmark PBT because such a charge is based on judgments about their value and economic life.
Acquisition expenses are charged to the Group income statement but excluded from the definition of Benchmark PBT as, by their very nature, they bear no relation to the underlying performance of the Group or to the performance of the acquired businesses.
Adjustments to contingent consideration are similarly excluded from the definition of Benchmark PBT.
An element of the Groups derivatives is ineligible for hedge accounting.
Gains or losses on these derivatives arising from market movements, together with gains and losses on put options in respect of acquisitions, are credited or charged to financing fair value remeasurements within finance expense in the Group income statement.
Net finance costs a Net finance costs included in Profit before tax 2013 2012 US$m US$m Interest income: Bank deposits, short-term investments and loan notes 16 18 Expected return on pension plan assets 52 57 Interest income before interest on legacy tax balances 68 75 Interest income arising on legacy tax balances 4 Interest income 68 79 Finance expense: Bank loans and overdrafts 6 3 Eurobonds and notes 103 95 Commitment and facility fees 10 8 Unwinding of discount on provisions note 39 1 Interest differentials on derivatives 37 31 Interest expense on pension plan liabilities 44 46 Interest expense 126 122 Charge in respect of financing fair value remeasurements note 15 c 561 318 Finance expense 687 440 Net finance costs included in Profit before tax 619 361 Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 123 15.
Net finance costs continued b Net interest expense included in Benchmark PBT 2013 2012 US$m US$m Interest income before interest on legacy tax balances 68 75 Interest expense 126 122 Net interest expense included in Benchmark PBT 58 47 c Analysis of charge in respect of financing fair value remeasurements 2013 2012 US$m US$m Fair value losses on borrowings attributable to interest rate risk 32 135 Fair value gains on borrowings attributable to currency risk 60 53 Losses on interest rate swaps fair value hedges 12 3 Losses gains on cross currency swaps fair value hedges 9 101 Fair value losses on non-hedging derivatives 10 4 Foreign exchange gains losses on financing activities 5 16 Increase in fair value of Serasa put option 558 325 Increase decrease in fair value of other options 5 11 Charge in respect of financing fair value remeasurements 561 318 The charge of US$558m in the year ended 31 March 2013 in respect of the increase in the fair value of the Serasa put option reflects the movement to the date of the acquisition of the additional 29.6% interest in Serasa and the terms of the related agreement.
d Interest rate risk The following table quantifies the Groups sensitivity to interest rate risk on the basis of the profile of net debt at the balance sheet dates and an assessment of reasonably possible changes in the principal interest rates, with all other variables held constant.
In making this assessment, the Group has considered movements in relevant interest rates over the most recent three-year period.
Interest rate exposure 2013 2012 US$m US$m Effect of an increase of 0.1% 2012: 0.7% on US dollar denominated net debt: 1 On profit for the financial year 4 14 Effect of an increase of 0.1% 2012: 1.4% on sterling denominated net debt: 2 On profit for the financial year 3 1 Effect of an increase of 2.4% 2012: 2.3% on Brazilian real denominated net debt: 3 On profit for the financial year 2 3 Effect of an increase of 0.6% 2012: 1.4% on euro denominated net debt: 2 On profit for the financial year 3 7 1.
Primarily due to fair value gains on interest rate swaps offset by higher interest expense on floating rate borrowings.
Primarily due to the revaluation of borrowings and related derivatives.
Primarily due to higher interest income on cash and cash equivalents.
124 Experian Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 16.
Tax charge credit in the Group income statement a Analysis of Group tax charge credit 2013 2012 US$m US$m Current tax: Tax on income for the year 224 120 Adjustments in respect of prior years 40 71 Total current tax charge 184 49 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 46 82 Adjustments in respect of prior years 14 2 Total deferred tax credit 32 84 Group tax charge credit 152 35 The Group tax charge credit comprises: UK tax 5 241 Non-UK tax 147 206 Group tax charge credit 152 35 b Tax reconciliations i Reconciliation of the Group tax charge credit 2013 2012 US$m US$m Profit before tax 440 689 Profit before tax multiplied by the main rate of UK corporation tax of 24% 2012: 26% 106 179 Effects of: Adjustments in respect of prior years 26 73 Exceptional items 5 4 Other income not taxable 27 46 Increase in fair value of Serasa put option not deductible 134 85 Other expenses not deductible 67 54 Adjustment in respect of previously unrecognised tax losses 3 217 Adjustment in respect of tax benefits recognised on corporate transactions 98 Reduction in future rate of UK corporation tax 12 9 Different effective tax rates in non-UK businesses 18 30 Group tax charge credit 152 35 Effective rate of tax based on Profit before tax 34.5% 5.1% Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 125 16.
Tax charge credit in the Group income statement continued ii Reconciliation of the Group tax charge credit to the Benchmark tax charge 2013 2012 US$m US$m Group tax charge credit 152 35 One-off tax credit 98 268 Tax attributable to exceptional items 11 1 Tax relief on other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT 41 42 Benchmark tax charge 302 274 Benchmark PBT 1,195 1,128 Benchmark tax rate 25.3% 24.3% In the current and prior year, significant one-off tax credits have been excluded from the calculation of the Benchmark tax rate in view of their size and nature.
In the year ended 31 March 2013, the one-off tax credit of US$98m comprised a tax benefit on a corporate transaction in respect of Computec.
In the prior year, the tax credit of US$268m arose on the determination of certain liabilities in respect of historic positions and the further utilisation of tax losses.
c Factors that affect tax charges The effective tax rates for both years are lower than the main rate of UK corporation tax with the differences explained above.
The Groups tax charge in the future will continue to be influenced by the profile of profits earned in the different countries in which the Groups businesses operate and could be affected by changes in tax law.
In the UK, the main rate of corporation tax was reduced to 24% with effect from 1 April 2012 and to 23% from 1 April 2013.
Further proposed reductions will reduce it to 21% from 1 April 2014 and 20% from 1 April 2015.
The further proposed reductions have not yet been substantively enacted and are therefore not recognised in these financial statements.
The effect of these further reductions is expected to be to increase the tax charge by US$18m in the financial year ending 31 March 2014 due to the effect of the rate reductions on deferred tax balances.
d Other information in respect of tax Tax recognised in other comprehensive income and directly in equity is detailed in notes 18 and 41.
Details of the tax position in the Group balance sheet are given in note 38 and an analysis of the cash outflow in respect of tax is given in note 44 d. 17.
Discontinued operations comparison shopping and lead generation businesses Prior to 31 March 2012, Experian agreed to divest the Groups comparison shopping and lead generation businesses, and completed a transaction in October 2012.
As in the Groups statutory financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012, the results and cash flows of these businesses are classified as discontinued.
Prior to that they were reported as part of the North American and UK and Ireland segments.
a Results for discontinued operations 2013 2012 US$m US$m Revenue 147 283 Labour costs 34 44 Data and information technology costs 7 7 Depreciation and amortisation 32 Marketing and customer acquisition costs 99 201 Other operating charges 12 8 Total operating expenses 152 292 Loss before tax 5 9 Tax credit including deferred tax of US$nil 2012: charge of US$2m 2 3 Loss after tax of discontinued operations 3 6 Profit on disposal of discontinued operations note 47 Tax credit in respect of disposal 121 Profit after tax on disposal of discontinued operations 121 Profit loss for the financial year from discontinued operations 118 6 126 Experian Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 17.
Discontinued operations comparison shopping and lead generation businesses continued Depreciation and amortisation includes amortisation of acquisition intangibles of US$nil 2012: US$27m.
As the assets and liabilities of these discontinued operations were classified as held for sale, no depreciation and amortisation was required to be charged in the year ended 31 March 2013.
The loss before tax of US$5m for the year ended 31 March 2013 reported for discontinued operations in note 9 comprises the loss before tax of US$5m and a profit on disposal of US$nil.
A tax credit of US$121m, comprising a deferred tax charge of US$13m and a current tax credit of US$134m, has arisen primarily from the tax losses arising in respect of the disposal.
b Cash flows for discontinued operations 2013 2012 US$m US$m Cash inflow from operating activities 64 2 Cash flow used in investing activities 3 Cash inflow outflow 64 1 The cash inflow from operating activities is stated after tax received of US$87m 2012: tax paid of US$9m comprising tax relief on the losses of these businesses of US$2m 2012: tax paid of US$9m and tax relief on the disposal transaction of US$85m.
Experian expects to realise further cash tax relief of some US$132m.
The net cash outflow of US$8m arising on the disposal of the comparison shopping and lead generation businesses in the year ended 31 March 2013 is disclosed within net cash flows used in investing activities from continuing operations in the Group cash flow statement.
c Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale at 31 March 2012 US$m Assets classified as held for sale: Goodwill 33 Other intangible assets 35 Property, plant and equipment 8 Trade receivables 22 Other prepayments and accrued income 15 Current tax asset 5 Assets classified as held for sale 118 Liabilities classified as held for sale: Deferred tax liability 38 Trade payables 15 Accruals and deferred income 24 Other payables 3 Liabilities classified as held for sale 80 18.
Other comprehensive income 2013 2012 Income Deferred tax Income after Income Deferred tax Income after before tax credit tax before tax charge tax US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Actuarial losses gains recognised on defined benefit pension plans 62 14 48 9 2 7 Fair value gains recognised on available-for-sale financial assets 3 3 Currency translation differences 39 39 64 64 Other comprehensive income 98 14 84 55 2 57 Other comprehensive income includes items of income and expense not recognised within the Group income statement.
All of these amounts are in respect of continuing operations.
Further details in respect of actuarial gains and losses recognised on defined benefit pension plans are given in note 36 with details in respect of fair value gains recognised on available-for-sale financial assets in note 31.
As the above currency differences arise on translation only, there is no related tax.
Currency translation differences are taken directly to the translation reserve with other items taken directly to retained earnings.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 127 19.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by a weighted average number of ordinary shares being the ordinary shares in issue during the year less own shares held as treasury shares and in employee trusts, which are treated as cancelled.
The calculation of diluted earnings per share reflects the potentially dilutive effect of employee share incentive plans.
The earnings figures used in the calculations are unchanged for diluted earnings per share.
Basic earnings per share 2013 2012 US cents US cents Continuing and discontinued operations 37.1 66.2 Deduct add: discontinued operations 11.9 0.6 Continuing operations 25.2 66.8 Add: exceptional items and other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT 60.5 12.1 Benchmark earnings per share from continuing operations non-GAAP measure 85.7 78.9 Diluted earnings per share 2013 2012 US cents US cents Continuing and discontinued operations 36.4 65.1 Deduct add: discontinued operations 11.7 0.6 Continuing operations 24.7 65.7 Add: exceptional items and other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT 59.2 11.8 Benchmark diluted earnings per share from continuing operations non-GAAP measure 83.9 77.5 Earnings attributable to owners of Experian plc 2013 2012 US$m US$m Continuing and discontinued operations 367 655 Deduct add: discontinued operations 118 6 Continuing operations 249 661 Add: exceptional items and other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT 598 119 Benchmark earnings attributable to owners of Experian plc non-GAAP measure 847 780 Earnings attributable to non-controlling interests 2013 2012 US$m US$m Continuing and discontinued operations 39 63 Add: amortisation of acquisition intangibles attributable to non-controlling interests 7 11 Benchmark earnings attributable to non-controlling interests non-GAAP measure 46 74 Reconciliation of Overall benchmark earnings to profit for the financial year 2013 2012 US$m US$m Overall benchmark earnings non-GAAP measure 893 854 Profit loss from discontinued operations 118 6 Loss from exceptional items and other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT 605 130 Profit for the financial year 406 718 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 2013 2012 million million Weighted average number of ordinary shares 988 989 Add: dilutive effect of share incentive awards and share purchases 21 17 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares 1,009 1,006 128 Experian Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 20.
Dividends 2013 2012 US cents US cents per share US$m per share US$m Amounts recognised and paid during the financial year: First interim paid in February 2013 2012: January 2012 10.75 106 10.25 102 Second interim paid in July 2012 2012: July 2011 21.75 216 19.00 188 Dividends paid on ordinary shares 32.50 322 29.25 290 Full year dividend for the financial year 34.75 343 32.00 317 A dividend of 24.00 US cents per ordinary share will be paid on 19 July 2013 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 21 June 2013 and is not included as a liability in these financial statements.
This dividend, together with the first interim dividend of 10.75 US cents per ordinary share paid in February 2013, comprises the full year dividend for the financial year of 34.75 US cents.
Unless shareholders elect by 21 June 2013 to receive US dollars, their dividends will be paid in sterling at a rate per share calculated on the basis of the exchange rate from US dollars to sterling on 28 June 2013.
Pursuant to the Income Access Share arrangements put in place in October 2006, shareholders in the Company can elect to receive their dividends from a UK source the IAS election.
Shareholders who held 50,000 or fewer Experian shares i on the date of admission of the Companys shares to listing on the London Stock Exchange or ii in the case of shareholders who did not own shares at that time, on the first dividend record date after they became shareholders in the Company, will be deemed to have elected to receive their dividends under the IAS election arrangements unless they elect otherwise.
Shareholders who hold more than 50,000 shares and who wish to receive their dividends from a UK source must make an IAS election.
All elections remain in force indefinitely unless revoked.
Unless shareholders have made, or are deemed to have made, an IAS election, dividends will be received from an Irish source and will be taxed accordingly.
In the year ended 31 March 2013 the employee trusts waived their entitlements to dividends of US$7m 2012: US$4m.
There is no entitlement to dividend in respect of own shares held in treasury.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 129 21.
Goodwill a Movements in goodwill 2013 2012 US$m US$m At 1 April 4,163 3,761 Differences on exchange 158 115 Additions through business combinations note 45 27 553 Adjustments to consideration on prior year acquisitions 3 3 Additions through business combinations total 30 550 Transfer in respect of assets held for sale 22 33 At 31 March 4,057 4,163 There have been no impairments of goodwill in the current or prior years.
b Analysis of allocation of goodwill by CGUs 2013 2012 US$m US$m North America 1,810 1,778 Latin America 1,214 1,322 UK and Ireland 660 686 EMEA 255 262 Asia Pacific 118 115 At 31 March 4,057 4,163 c Key assumptions for value-in-use calculations by CGUs 2013 2012 Pre-tax Long-term Pre-tax Long-term WACC growth rate WACC growth rate % % % % North America 11.4 2.3 11.3 2.3 Latin America 12.4 4.7 14.8 7.0 UK and Ireland 9.1 2.3 9.0 2.3 EMEA 10.7 3.1 11.4 4.3 Asia Pacific 11.6 5.3 11.6 5.3 Further details of the principles used in determining the basis of allocation by CGU and annual impairment testing are given in note 6.
At 31 March 2013, the recoverable amount of the Asia Pacific CGU exceeds the carrying value by approximately US$34m and an increase in the pre-tax WACC of 1.0% or a reduction in the long-term growth rate of 1.3% would reduce the value-in-use of its goodwill to an amount equal to its carrying value.
A reduction of 0.9% in the forecast margin would reduce the value-in-use of its goodwill to an amount equal to its carrying value.
Management determined the Asia Pacific margin based upon its past performance and its expectations of market development over a five year period.
The Asia Pacific margin is forecast to improve to a high single-digit margin in the terminal period.
This is below managements expectations for a mature region.
The recoverable amount of the other CGUs exceed their carrying value on the basis of the above assumptions and any reasonably possible changes thereof.
130 Experian Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 22.
Other intangible assets Acquisition intangibles Databases Internal use Internally Total Customer Acquired Marketingsoftware generated and other software related assets software relationships development US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2012 925 224 167 1,140 257 322 3,035 Differences on exchange 46 14 8 52 9 11 140 Additions through business combinations note 45 4 6 10 Other additions 211 57 77 345 Disposal of subsidiaries 21 2 23 Other disposals 10 4 185 14 36 249 At 31 March 2013 873 212 159 1,093 289 352 2,978 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2012 347 119 62 682 127 116 1,453 Differences on exchange 17 9 3 32 4 5 70 Charge for the year 75 35 13 168 38 55 384 Disposal of subsidiaries 13 2 15 Other disposals 10 4 184 14 36 248 At 31 March 2013 395 141 72 621 145 130 1,504 Net book amount at 31 March 2012 578 105 105 458 130 206 1,582 Net book amount at 31 March 2013 478 71 87 472 144 222 1,474 Acquisition intangibles Databases Internal use Internally Total Customer Acquired Marketingsoftware generated and other software related assets software relationships development Restated Restated Restated US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2011 928 198 182 1,039 228 256 2,831 Differences on exchange 33 10 8 46 7 3 107 Additions through business combinations 236 67 7 3 2 2 317 Other additions 218 55 97 370 Disposals 18 8 74 15 27 142 Transfer in respect of assets held for sale 188 23 14 6 3 234 At 31 March 2012 925 224 167 1,140 257 322 3,035 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2011 434 122 64 611 118 108 1,457 Differences on exchange 11 7 4 24 4 1 51 Charge for the year 101 33 16 169 32 36 387 Disposals 18 8 74 15 26 141 Transfer in respect of assets held for sale 159 21 14 4 1 199 At 31 March 2012 347 119 62 682 127 116 1,453 Net book amount at 31 March 2011 494 76 118 428 110 148 1,374 Net book amount at 31 March 2012 578 105 105 458 130 206 1,582 Acquisition intangibles were previously reported in two categories only, with customer and other relationships forming one category and all other acquisition intangibles reported in aggregate.
In order to provide further understanding of the asset profile, this second category has been further analysed in the year ended 31 March 2013 with comparative figures restated accordingly.
Assets with a net book amount of US$26m at 31 March 2012 are now excluded from customer and other relationships and reported in the other categories.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 131 23.
Property, plant and equipment Freehold Short Plant and Total properties leasehold equipment properties US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2012 253 137 494 884 Differences on exchange 13 14 27 Additions 1 12 102 115 Disposal of subsidiaries 3 3 Other disposals 1 47 48 At 31 March 2013 240 149 532 921 Accumulated depreciation At 1 April 2012 68 40 313 421 Differences on exchange 4 6 10 Charge for the year 6 9 66 81 Disposal of subsidiaries 3 3 Other disposals 1 45 46 At 31 March 2013 69 49 325 443 Net book amount at 31 March 2012 185 97 181 463 Net book amount at 31 March 2013 171 100 207 478 Freehold Short Plant and Total properties leasehold equipment properties US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2011 254 132 492 878 Differences on exchange 6 8 14 Additions through business combinations 9 7 16 Other additions 10 87 97 Disposals 4 4 67 75 Transfer in respect of assets held for sale 1 17 18 At 31 March 2012 253 137 494 884 Accumulated depreciation At 1 April 2011 63 38 327 428 Differences on exchange 1 6 7 Charge for the year 7 7 65 79 Disposals 1 4 64 69 Transfer in respect of assets held for sale 1 9 10 At 31 March 2012 68 40 313 421 Net book amount at 31 March 2011 191 94 165 450 Net book amount at 31 March 2012 185 97 181 463 The net book amount of assets held under finance lease agreements and capitalised in plant and equipment is US$6m 2012: US$8m.
At the end of such agreements the Group has the option to purchase the equipment at a beneficial price.
Further leased assets of US$9m 2012: US$nil are capitalised in other intangible assets.
132 Experian Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 24.
Investments in associates 2013 2012 US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 13 27 Additions through business combinations 11 Other additions 8 Share of loss after tax 2 Dividends received 1 1 Acquisition of controlling stake in associate 22 Interest in associate arising on a business disposal 1 At 31 March 21 13 25.
Inventories 2013 2012 US$m US$m Work in progress 3 2 Finished goods 4 9 7 11 26.
Trade and other receivables a Analysis of trade and other receivables by type and maturity 2013 2012 Current Non-current Current Non-current US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade receivables 710 684 Credit note provision 16 25 Trade receivables net of provision for credit notes 694 659 Provision for impairment of trade receivables 40 37 Trade receivables net 654 622 Amounts owed by associates 3 7 VAT recoverable 3 2 Other prepayments and accrued income 263 10 279 13 923 10 910 13 There is no material difference between the fair value of trade and other receivables and the book value stated above.
All non-current receivables are due within five years.
The only impaired assets are within trade receivables.
Trade receivables with financial institutions accounted for some 33% 2012: 25% of such receivables in Brazil, some 28% 2012: 28% in the UK and some 21% 2012: 27% in the USA.
Together these represent some 22% 2012: 21% of trade receivables.
The remaining balances are distributed across multiple industries and geographies.
b Analysis of total trade and other receivables by nature 2013 2012 US$m US$m Financial instruments 710 698 Items not regarded as financial instruments: VAT recoverable 3 2 Amounts within other prepayments and accrued income 220 223 Items not regarded as financial instruments 223 225 933 923 Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 133 26.
Trade and other receivables continued c Analysis of trade and other receivables by denomination of currency 2013 2012 Current Non-current Current Non-current US$m US$m US$m US$m US dollar 338 6 310 6 Sterling 229 236 Brazilian real 155 2 135 3 Euro 79 101 Other 122 2 128 4 923 10 910 13 d Analysis of trade receivables net of provision for credit notes 2013 2012 US$m US$m Neither past due nor impaired note 26 e 471 410 Past due but not considered impaired note 26 f 174 208 Considered partially impaired and provided for note 26 g 49 41 694 659 e Analysis of trade receivables neither past due nor impaired 2013 2012 US$m US$m New customers of less than six months standing 37 37 Existing customers of more than six months standing with no defaults in the past 434 373 471 410 None of these trade receivables has been renegotiated in either year.
There is no evidence of impairment in respect of the above amounts.
f Analysis of trade receivables past due but not considered impaired 2013 2012 US$m US$m Up to three months past due 151 175 Three to six months past due 13 21 Over six months past due 10 12 174 208 Of the above amounts, no trade receivables have been renegotiated in either year.
g Analysis of trade receivables considered partially impaired and provided for 2013 2012 US$m US$m Up to three months past due 12 7 Three to six months past due 5 3 Over six months past due 32 31 49 41 Impairment provision note 26 h 40 37 9 4 134 Experian Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 26.
Trade and other receivables continued h Movements in the impairment provision 2013 2012 US$m US$m At 1 April 37 47 Differences on exchange 3 4 Provision for impairment 32 24 Provision utilised in respect of debts written off 15 18 Unused amounts reversed 11 12 At 31 March 40 37 27.
Cash and cash equivalents a Analysis of cash and cash equivalents by nature 2013 2012 US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 139 130 Short-term investments 90 124 229 254 The effective interest rate for cash and cash equivalents at 31 March 2013 is 3.7% 2012: 4.7%.
There is no material difference between the fair value of cash and cash equivalents and the book value stated above.
b Analysis of cash and cash equivalents by external credit rating 2013 2012 US$m US$m Counterparty holding of more than US$2m: A rated 125 144 B rated 79 80 Counterparty holding of more than US$2m 204 224 Counterparty holding of less than US$2m 25 30 229 254 28.
Trade and other payables a Analysis of trade and other payables by type and maturity 2013 2012 Current Non-current Current Non-current US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade payables 184 1 159 2 VAT and other equivalent taxes payable 43 41 Social security costs 85 85 Accruals and deferred income 773 40 807 40 Other payables 112 118 1 1,197 41 1,210 43 There is no material difference between the fair value of trade and other payables and the book value stated above.
All non-current payables are due within five years.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 135 28.
Trade and other payables continued b Analysis of total trade and other payables by nature 2013 2012 Restated US$m US$m Financial instruments 463 465 Items not regarded as financial instruments: VAT and other equivalent taxes payable 43 41 Social security costs 85 85 Amounts within accruals and deferred income 647 662 Items not regarded as financial instruments 775 788 Total trade and other payables 1,238 1,253 As obligations under employee benefit plans are accounted for under IAS 19, they are now all excluded from financial instruments.
At 31 March 2012, an amount of US$72m in respect of such items had previously been classified as a financial instrument.
Contractual undiscounted cash flows in respect of financial instruments are shown in note 34.
Borrowings a Analysis of borrowings by carrying amounts 2013 2012 Current Non-current Current Non-current US$m US$m US$m US$m 334m 5.625% Euronotes 2013 529 571 US$600m 2.375% notes 2017 602 400m 4.75% Euronotes 2018 693 709 500m 4.75% Euronotes 2020 729 729 Bank loans 100 590 12 170 Bank overdrafts 3 Finance lease obligations 3 12 1 635 2,626 13 2,179 The effective interest rates for bonds approximate to the coupon rates indicated above.
There is no material difference between the carrying values of the loans and borrowings and their fair values.
Other than finance lease obligations, the borrowings are unsecured.
b Analysis of borrowings by currency 2013 2012 Restated US$m US$m US dollar 2,557 1,657 Sterling 542 392 Euro 46 85 Other 116 58 3,261 2,192 The above analysis takes account of the effect of cross currency swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts, and reflects the manner in which the Group manages relevant exposures.
The analysis presented in 2012 only took account of the effect of cross currency swaps.
136 Experian Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 29.
Borrowings continued c Committed bank borrowing facilities 2013 2012 Drawn Undrawn Drawn Undrawn US$m US$m US$m US$m Facilities expiring in: Under one year 100 One to two years 100 114 100 Two to three years 490 1,510 50 167 Three to four years 20 1,980 690 1,624 170 2,147 These facilities are at floating interest rates and expire at various dates.
They are for general corporate purposes, including the financing of acquisitions.
d Covenants and gearing ratio The only significant financial covenant in connection with the borrowing facilities is that EBIT must exceed three times net interest expense.
The Group monitors this and the net debt to EBITDA gearing ratio.
Net debt non-GAAP measure a Analysis of net debt 2013 2012 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents net of overdrafts 226 254 Debt due within one year bank loans, bonds and notes 620 12 Debt due within one year finance lease obligations 3 1 Debt due after more than one year bonds and notes 2,014 1,992 Debt due after more than one year bank loans and finance lease obligations 602 170 Derivatives hedging loans and borrowings 75 103 2,938 1,818 b Analysis of net debt by balance sheet caption 2013 2012 Restated US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents as reported in the Group balance sheet 254 229 Borrowings current as reported in the Group balance sheet 635 13 Borrowings non-current as reported in the Group balance sheet 2,626 2,179 Total reported in the Group balance sheet 3,032 1,938 Accrued interest reported within loans and borrowings above but excluded from net debt 19 17 Derivatives reported within financial assets 75 103 2,938 1,818 Accrued interest at 31 March 2012 is now separately reported.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 137 30.
Analysis of net debt non-GAAP measure continued c Analysis of changes in net debt Cash Borrowings Borrowings Net debt Bank deposits Accrued Derivatives Net debt and cash current non-current by balance within interest hedging equivalents sheet financial excluded from loans and caption assets net debt borrowings US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2012 254 13 2,179 1,938 17 103 1,818 Cash outflow 888 888 888 Borrowings cash flow 1,123 91 1,032 Reclassification of borrowings 571 571 Net interest paid 68 68 68 Movement on accrued interest 2 2 Net cash inflow outflow 167 662 461 956 2 954 Net share purchases 180 180 180 Fair value gains and losses 15 47 32 44 12 Exchange and other movements 12 25 61 74 72 2 At 31 March 2013 229 635 2,626 3,032 19 75 2,938 Cash Borrowings Borrowings Net debt by Bank deposits Accrued Derivatives Net debt and cash current non-current balance sheet within interest hedging equivalents caption financial excluded from loans and assets net debt borrowings US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2011 408 6 1,921 1,519 14 10 6 1,501 Cash outflow 114 114 14 128 Borrowings cash flow 175 7 168 Net interest paid 57 57 57 Movement on accrued interest 4 4 7 3 Net cash inflow outflow 4 7 172 175 14 7 182 Net share purchases 167 167 167 Fair value gains and losses 139 139 162 23 Exchange and other movements 9 53 62 53 9 At 31 March 2012 254 13 2,179 1,938 17 103 1,818 31.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets comprise listed investments of US$38m 2012: US$35m held to secure unfunded UK pension arrangements see note 37 and investments held overseas of US$3m 2012: US$2m.
At 31 March 2013, if the relevant stock market and other indices had been 10% higher lower with all other variables held constant, further fair value gains losses of US$4m would have been recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
In making its assessment of reasonably possible changes, the Group has used the movements in relevant stock market and other indices for the year ended 31 March 2013.
The listed investments in the UK are managed by independent fund managers who seek to mitigate such risk by diversification of the portfolio.
2013 2012 US$m US$m At 1 April 37 42 Additions 1 Reclassification 1 Fair value gains 3 Disposals 6 At 31 March 41 37 138 Experian Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 32.
Other financial assets and liabilities a Summary of other financial assets and liabilities 2013 2012 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total Assets US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and receivables 79 79 Derivative financial instruments: Fair value hedge of borrowings cross currency swaps 70 70 80 80 Fair value hedge of borrowings interest rate swaps 18 4 22 33 33 Derivatives used for hedging 18 74 92 113 113 Non-hedging derivatives equity swaps 5 3 8 4 4 Non-hedging derivatives foreign exchange contracts 4 4 7 7 Assets at fair value through profit and loss 9 3 12 7 4 11 Derivative financial instruments 27 77 104 7 117 124 Other derivatives 6 6 Total other financial assets 27 156 183 7 123 130 2013 2012 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total Liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments: Derivatives used for hedging Non-hedging derivatives foreign exchange contracts 3 3 3 3 Non-hedging derivatives interest rate swaps 2 40 42 3 32 35 Liabilities at fair value through profit and loss 5 40 45 6 32 38 Derivative financial instruments 5 40 45 6 32 38 Put option in respect of Serasa non-controlling interest 1,092 1,092 Options in respect of other non-controlling interests 15 40 55 32 32 Options in respect of non-controlling interests 15 40 55 1,092 32 1,124 Total other financial liabilities 20 80 100 1,098 64 1,162 Amounts recognised in the Group income statement in connection with the Groups hedging instruments are disclosed in note 15.
There is no material difference between the fair values and the book values stated above.
b Fair value and notional principal amounts of derivative financial instruments 2013 2012 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cross currency swaps 70 1,347 80 1,347 Interest rate swaps 22 858 42 2,087 33 759 35 1,315 Equity swaps 8 17 4 21 Foreign exchange contracts 4 203 3 171 7 497 3 256 104 2,425 45 2,258 124 2,624 38 1,571 Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 139 33.
Analysis by level of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value a Analysis by level 2013 2012 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets: Derivatives used for hedging 92 92 113 113 Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss 12 12 11 6 17 Amounts reported as other financial assets note 32 104 104 124 6 130 Available-for-sale note 31 38 3 41 37 37 38 104 3 145 37 124 6 167 Financial liabilities: Derivatives used for hedging Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss 45 55 100 38 1,124 1,162 45 55 100 38 1,124 1,162 Net financial assets liabilities 38 59 52 45 37 86 1,118 995 Assets and liabilities whose valuations are based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities are classified as Level 1.
Assets and liabilities which are not traded in an active market and whose valuations are derived from available market data that is observable for the asset or liability are classified as Level 2.
Assets and liabilities whose valuations are derived from inputs not based on observable market data are classified as Level 3. b Analysis of movements in Level 3 assets and liabilities Year ended 31 March 2013 Year ended 31 March 2012 AvailableSerasa put Other Total AvailableSerasa put Other Total for-sale option for-sale option US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 1,092 26 1,118 870 28 898 Additions and reclassifications 3 24 21 9 9 Valuation losses gains recognised in Group income statement 558 5 563 325 11 314 Currency translation gains recognised directly in other comprehensive income 163 163 103 103 Derecognition of put option liability directly in equity 1,487 1,487 At 31 March 3 55 52 1,092 26 1,118 This table presents an analysis of the changes in financial assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 which principally comprise put and call options associated with corporate transactions.
There would be no material effect from any reasonably possible change in inputs at 31 March 2013.
140 Experian Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 34.
Maturity profile of financial liabilities contractual undiscounted cash flows a Contractual undiscounted cash flows for financial liabilities Less than One to two Two to three Three to four Four to five Over five Total one year years years years years years From 31 March 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Borrowings 716 177 567 77 669 1,339 3,545 Net settled derivative financial instruments 20 16 12831 60 Gross settled derivative financial instruments 3 3 Options in respect of non-controlling interests 17 15 41 73 Trade and other payables note 28 b 44832226 463 Cash outflows 1,204 196 596 87 715 1,346 4,144 Less than One to two Two to three Three to four Four to five Over five Total one year years years years years years Restated Restated Restated Restated Restated Restated Restated From 31 March 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Borrowings 105 727 132 62 62 1,462 2,550 Net settled derivative financial instruments 16 12 9 6 2 1 46 Gross settled derivative financial instruments 2 2 Put options in respect of Serasa and other non-controlling interests 1,092 23 9 1,124 Trade and other payables note 28 b 446 5 3 2 3 6 465 Cash outflows 1,661 767 144 79 67 1,469 4,187 The table above analyses financial liabilities into maturity groupings based on the period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
As the amounts disclosed are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, they differ from the carrying values and fair values.
Borrowings at 31 March 2012 of US$170m, which were previously reported in the less than one year category, are now included within later categories to provide a more accurate presentation of the cash flows.
As indicated in note 28 b, the analysis for trade and other payables is restricted to items therein which are regarded as financial instruments, with prior year numbers re-presented in respect of obligations under employee benefit plans.
b Contractual undiscounted cash flows for derivative financial liabilities Less than One to two Two to three Three to four Four to five Over five Total one year years years years years years From 31 March 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Settled on a net basis interest rate swaps 20 16 12 8 3 1 60 Settled on a gross basis: Outflows for foreign exchange contracts 234 234 Inflows for foreign exchange contracts 231 231 Settled on a gross basis 3 3 Cash outflows 23 16 12 8 3 1 63 Less than One to two Two to three Three to four Four to five Over five Total one year years years years years years From 31 March 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Settled on a net basis interest rate swaps 16 12 9 6 2 1 46 Settled on a gross basis: Outflows for foreign exchange contracts 281 281 Inflows for foreign exchange contracts 279 279 Settled on a gross basis 2 2 Cash outflows 18 12 9 6 2 1 48 The table above analyses the derivative financial liabilities into maturity groupings based on the period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 141 35.
Share incentive plans a Cost of share-based compensation 2013 2012 US$m US$m Share awards 73 56 Share options 5 9 Total expense recognised in Group income statement 78 65 Reported within employee benefit costs as follows: Within Benchmark PBT 78 60 Charge in respect of demerger-related share incentive plans excluded from Benchmark PBT 5 Total expense recognised in Group income statement 78 65 The Group has a number of equity settled, share-based employee incentive plans.
Details of the arrangements under which awards are made and options granted are given below, together with information on award valuation.
The price of the Companys ordinary shares is quoted in sterling and accordingly award, option and share prices are disclosed in sterling.
b Share awards i Summary of arrangements and performance conditions There are three plans under which share awards are granted the two Experian Co-Investment Plans the Experian CIPs and the Experian Performance Share Plan the Experian PSP.
Awards take the form of a grant of shares and vest over a service period of three years with a maximum term of the same length.
The method of settlement for the awards is by share distribution.
The assumption at grant date for employee departures prior to vesting is between 5% and 10% for conditional awards and 20% for the unconditional awards which are only made under the Experian PSP.
Other details in respect of conditional awards are given below.
Performance conditions for vesting Assumed outcome at grant date Experian CIPs 50% Benchmark profit performance of Group assessed Benchmark profit 82% to 100% against specified targets 50% Cumulative operating cash flow of Group Cumulative operating cash flow 100% Experian PSP 75% Benchmark profit performance of Group assessed Benchmark profit 82% to 100% against specified targets 25% Distribution percentage determined by ranking Total TSR Range from 45% to 52% Shareholder Return TSR relative to a comparator group Experian CIPs The grant date for these plans is the start of the financial year in which performance is assessed.
This is before the number of shares to be awarded is determined but the underlying value of the award is known, subject to the outcome of the performance condition.
The value of awarded shares reflects the performance outcome assumed at the date of their issue to participants and is recognised over a four-year period.
The range of performance conditions for awards under this plan are set out below.
The Benchmark profit performance condition the profit condition requires Benchmark PBT growth at the stated percentages over a three-year period.
The cumulative operating cash flow performance condition the cash flow condition is based on cumulative operating cash flow over a three-year period.
Profit condition Cash flow condition Year of award Target Maximum Target Maximum Year ended 31 March 2013 7% per annum 14% per annum US$3.7bn US$4.1bn Year ended 31 March 2012 7% per annum 14% per annum US$3.0bn US$3.4bn Year ended 31 March 2011 5% per annum 11% per annum US$2.9bn US$3.3bn The period of assessment commences at the beginning of the financial year of grant.
These are not market-based performance conditions as defined by IFRS 2.
142 Experian Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 35.
Share incentive plans continued Experian PSP The range of Benchmark profit performance conditions for conditional awards under this plan are set out below and require Benchmark PBT growth at the stated percentages over a three-year period.
Year of award Target Maximum Year ended 31 March 2013 7% per annum 14% per annum Year ended 31 March 2012 7% per annum 14% per annum Year ended 31 March 2011 5% per annum 11% per annum The TSR performance condition is considered a market-based performance condition as defined by IFRS 2.
In valuing the awarded shares, TSR is evaluated using a Monte Carlo simulation with historic volatilities and correlations for comparator companies measured over the three-year period preceding valuation and an implied volatility for Experian plc ordinary shares.
ii Information on share grant valuation techniques Share grants are valued by reference to the market price on the day of award with no modification made for dividend distributions or other factors as participants are entitled to dividend distributions on awarded shares.
Market-based performance conditions are included in the fair value measurement on grant date and are not revised for actual performance.
iii Movement in and analysis of number of share awards outstanding 2013 2012 million million At 1 April 18.3 20.9 Grants 6.9 7.4 Forfeitures 0.5 2.3 Vesting 4.8 7.7 At 31 March 19.9 18.3 Analysis by plan: Experian CIPs 7.3 6.8 Experian PSP conditional awards 6.8 6.7 Experian PSP unconditional awards 5.8 4.8 At 31 March 19.9 18.3 The fair values of share awards are calculated using the assumptions, and adjusted for the performance conditions, noted above.
Awards granted in the year had a weighted average fair value of 8.91 2012: 7.91. Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 143 35.
Share incentive plans continued c Share options i Summary of arrangements The only options granted in the current and prior year have been in respect of Experian Sharesave Plans and the amounts involved are not significant.
Accordingly disclosures relating to the application of valuation techniques, inputs into valuation models and fair values of options granted have again been omitted.
Although there have been no grants of options under the Experian Share Option Plan and equivalent legacy plans in the current and prior year, options remain outstanding under such plans.
ii Movement in number of options and weighted average exercise price Number Price Number Price 2013 2013 2012 2012 million million Options outstanding at 1 April 15.0 4.63 24.8 4.27 Grants 0.8 7.13 1.1 6.16 1 Forfeitures and cancellations 0.4 4.99 0.9 4.74 2 Exercises 9.0 4.55 9.9 3.87 Expiries 0.2 4.90 0.1 4.85 Options outstanding at 31 March 6.2 5.02 15.0 4.63 Options exercisable at 31 March 3.4 4.70 3.8 4.54 1.
For Experian Sharesave Plans, forfeitures include non-leavers who have not completed the savings requirement.
The weighted average market price of Experian shares in respect of option exercises during the year was 9.79 2012: 7.84.
Options outstanding at 31 March 2013 include 2.9 million shares 2012: 2.9 million shares in respect of Experian Sharesave Plans and 3.3 million shares 2012: 12.1 million shares in respect of the Experian Share Option Plan and equivalent legacy plans.
Options exercisable at 31 March 2013 include 0.1 million shares 2012: 0.1 million shares in respect of Experian Sharesave Plans and 3.3 million shares 2012: 3.7 million shares in respect of the Experian Share Option Plan and equivalent legacy plans.
The 2012 numbers were previously reported as 3.7 million shares in respect of Experian Sharesave Plans and 0.1 million shares in respect of the Experian Share Option Plan.
iii Details of options outstanding At 31 March 2013 At 31 March 2012 Number Weighted Weighted average remaining lives Number Weighted Weighted average remaining lives of options average of options average Range of exercise price Expected Contractual exercise price Expected Contractual exercise prices million years years million years years 2 to 3 0.6 2.91 0.5 0.9 0.7 2.91 1.3 1.7 3 to 4 0.4 3.35 0.5 4.1 1.6 3.36 0.4 6.3 4 to 5 2.9 4.69 0.3 4.4 9.8 4.66 1.1 9.1 5 to 6 0.7 5.39 3.2 1.9 5.39 0.1 6.6 6 to 7 0.9 6.18 1.8 2.2 1.0 6.18 2.7 3.3 7 to 8 0.7 7.13 2.9 3.3 6.2 5.00 15.0 4.63 144 Experian Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 36.
Retirement benefit assets and obligations The disclosures required by IAS 19, which relate to the Groups defined benefit pension arrangements and post-retirement healthcare obligations only, are set out below.
An overview of the Groups retirement benefit arrangements is given in note 37.
Experian is adopting IAS 19 revised with effect from 1 April 2013 and the results for the year ended 31 March 2013 will be re-presented accordingly in the annual report for the year ending 31 March 2014.
It is anticipated that this will give rise to a reduction in reported profit before tax for the year ended 31 March 2013 of some US$6m.
a Retirement benefit assets obligations recognised in the Group balance sheet 2013 2012 US$m US$m Retirement benefit assets obligations funded plans: Fair value of funded plans assets 994 957 Present value of funded plans obligations 914 827 Surplus in the funded plans 80 130 Retirement benefit obligations unfunded plans: Present value of unfunded pension obligations 45 41 Present value of post-retirement healthcare obligations 11 12 Retirement benefit obligations unfunded plans 56 53 Net retirement benefit assets 24 77 b Movements in net retirement benefit assets recognised in the Group balance sheet 2013 2012 US$m US$m At 1 April 77 55 Differences on exchange 3 Income recognised in Group income statement 1 2 Actuarial losses gains recognised within other comprehensive income 62 9 Contributions paid by the Group 11 11 At 31 March 24 77 c Present value of the total defined benefit obligations i Movements in the year 2013 2012 US$m US$m At 1 April 880 858 Differences on exchange 49 3 Current service cost 8 9 Interest on plans liabilities 44 46 Settlement or curtailment 1 Actuarial losses on liabilities 128 7 Contributions paid by employees 3 4 Benefits paid 43 41 At 31 March 970 880 ii Analysis of the present value of the total defined benefit obligations 2013 2012 US$m US$m Funded arrangements 914 827 Unfunded arrangements 56 53 At 31 March 970 880 Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 145 36.
Retirement benefit assets and obligations continued d Movements in the fair value of the plans assets 2013 2012 US$m US$m At 1 April 957 913 Differences on exchange 52 3 Expected return on plans assets 52 57 Actuarial gains on assets 66 16 Actual return on plans assets 118 73 Contributions paid by the Group 11 11 Contributions paid by employees 3 4 Benefits paid 43 41 At 31 March 994 957 e Amounts recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income 2013 2012 US$m US$m Service cost 8 9 Curtailment gain 1 Charge within labour costs 7 9 Finance income expense : Expected return on plans assets 52 57 Interest on plans liabilities 44 46 Net finance income 8 11 Total credit to Group income statement 1 2 Actuarial losses gains recognised within other comprehensive income: Losses on liabilities 128 7 Gains on assets 66 16 Actuarial losses gains recognised within other comprehensive income 62 9 Total charge credit recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income 61 11 f Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in the Group retained earnings reserve 2013 2012 US$m US$m Losses gains in Experian plans 34 28 Losses in Home Retail Group plans recognised prior to the demerger 81 81 Total charge to the Group retained earnings reserve 115 53 g Future contributions As there was a surplus at the date of the 2010 full actuarial valuation of the Experian Pension Scheme, no deficit repayment contributions are currently required.
The next full valuation of the plan will be carried out as at 31 March 2013.
Contributions currently expected to be paid to the Experian Pension Scheme during the year ending 31 March 2014 are US$8m by the Group and US$3m by its employees.
146 Experian Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 36.
Retirement benefit assets and obligations continued h Actuarial assumptions and sensitivities The valuations used at 31 March 2013 have been based on the most recent actuarial valuations, updated by Towers Watson Limited to take account of the requirements of IAS 19.
The assumptions for discount rate, salary increases and mortality, used to calculate the present value of the defined benefit obligations, all have a significant effect on the accounting valuation.
Changes to these assumptions in the light of prevailing conditions may have a significant impact on future valuations.
i Principal financial actuarial assumptions: 2013 2012 % % Discount rate 4.5 5.2 Rate of inflation based on the Retail Prices Index 3.4 3.3 Rate of inflation based on the Consumer Prices Index 2.4 2.3 Rate of increase for salaries 4.4 4.3 Rate of increase for pensions in payment element based on the Retail Prices Index where cap is 5% 3.1 3.1 Rate of increase for pensions in payment element based on the Consumer Prices Index where cap is 5% 2.4 2.3 Rate of increase for pensions in payment element based on the Consumer Prices Index where cap is 3% 2.0 1.9 Rate of increase for pensions in deferment 2.4 2.3 Rate of increase for medical costs 6.9 6.8 Expected return on plan assets n a 5.7 The principal financial assumption is the real discount rate, being the excess of the discount rate over the rate of inflation.
The discount rate is based on the market yields on high quality corporate bonds of appropriate currency and term to the defined benefit obligations.
In the case of the Experian Pension Scheme, the obligations are primarily in sterling and have a maturity of some 18 years.
If the discount rate increased decreased by 0.1%, the defined benefit obligations would decrease increase by approximately US$19m and the annual current service cost would remain unchanged.
The rates of increase for pensions in payment reflect the separate arrangements applying to different groups of Experians pensioners.
The expected return on plan assets at 31 March 2012 that has been used in the year ended 31 March 2013 was determined by considering the mix of returns anticipated on the assets held in accordance with the investment policy.
Expected yields on fixed interest securities were generally based on gross redemption yields.
Expected returns on equities and other assets reflected the long-term real rates of return experienced in the respective markets.
In view of the adoption of IAS 19 revised with effect from 1 April 2013 which requires the use of the discount rate on both obligations and assets from that date, no such rate is disclosed at 31 March 2013. ii Mortality assumptions average life expectation on retirement at age 65 in normal health: 2013 2012 years years For a male currently aged 65 22.5 22.5 For a female currently aged 65 23.7 23.6 For a male currently aged 50 23.6 23.5 For a female currently aged 50 24.8 24.8 The valuation assumes that mortality will be in line with the standard SAPS S1 All tables based on each members year of birth, with a 95% adjustment factor applied to the underlying mortality rates for males and a 106% adjustment factor for females and projected in accordance with the Continuous Mortality Investigation CMI 2009 Core Projection Model with a long-term improvement rate of 1% per annum.
This includes a specific allowance for anticipated future improvements in life expectancy CMI projections.
An increase in assumed life expectancy of 0.1 years would increase the defined benefit obligations at 31 March 2013 by approximately US$4m.
iii Post-retirement healthcare The valuation in respect of post-retirement healthcare benefits additionally assumes a rate of increase for medical costs.
If this rate increased decreased by 1.0% per annum, the obligation would increase decrease by US$1m and the finance expense would remain unchanged.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 147 36.
Retirement benefit assets and obligations continued i Assets of the Groups defined benefit plans at fair value 2013 2012 US$m % US$m % Equities 440 44 457 48 Fixed interest securities 449 45 444 46 Other 105 11 56 6 994 100 957 100 j Historical information 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Fair value of plans assets 994 957 913 822 595 Present value of defined benefit obligations 970 880 858 910 653 Net pension assets obligations 24 77 55 88 58 Experience adjustment on plans assets gains losses 66 16 10 178 236 Experience adjustment on defined benefit obligations gains losses 2 57 1 1 The Groups retirement benefit assets and obligations are denominated primarily in sterling.
Retirement benefit arrangements The disclosures required by IAS 19, which relate to the Groups defined benefit pension arrangements and post-retirement healthcare obligations only, are set out in note 36.
An overview of these arrangements is given below.
a Funded pension arrangements The Group operates dened benefit and dened contribution pension plans in a number of countries.
A dened benefit pension plan defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
A dened contribution pension plan defines the amount of contributions that are paid by the Group into an independently administered fund.
The Groups principal defined benefit plan is the Experian Pension Scheme which provides benefits for certain UK employees but was closed to new entrants in the year ended 31 March 2009.
The Group provides a defined contribution plan, the Experian Retirement Savings Plan, to other eligible UK employees.
Both plans are governed by trust deeds which ensure that their finances and governance are independent from those of the Group.
Employees in the USA and Brazil have the option to join locally provided defined contribution plans.
There are no other material funded pension arrangements.
The Experian Pension Scheme has rules which specify the benefits to be paid and is financed accordingly.
A full actuarial funding valuation of this plan is carried out every three years with interim reviews in the intervening years.
The latest full valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2010 by independent, qualified actuaries, Towers Watson Limited, using the projected unit credit method.
There was a surplus at the date of the 2010 full actuarial valuation and the next full valuation will be carried out as at 31 March 2013. b Unfunded pension arrangements The Group has had unfunded pension arrangements in place for a number of years designed to ensure that certain directors and senior managers in the UK who are affected by the earnings cap are placed in broadly the same position as those who are not.
Additionally there are unfunded arrangements for one current director of the Company and certain former directors and employees of Experian Finance plc.
Certain of these unfunded arrangements in the UK have been secured by the grant of charges to an independent trustee over an independently managed portfolio of marketable securities owned by the Group.
The amount of assets so charged is adjusted periodically to keep the ratio of assets charged to the discounted value of the accrued benefits secured close to the corresponding ratio in the Experian Pension Scheme.
The value of such assets at 31 March 2013 was US$38m 2012: US$35m and these are reported as available-for-sale financial assets note 31.
Further details of the pension arrangements for directors appear in the audited part of the report on directors remuneration.
c Post-retirement healthcare arrangements The Group operates plans which provide post-retirement healthcare benefits to certain retired employees and their dependant relatives.
The principal plan relates to former employees in the UK and, under this plan, the Group has undertaken to meet the cost of post-retirement healthcare for all eligible former employees who retired prior to 1 April 1994 and their dependants.
148 Experian Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 38.
Deferred and current tax a Deferred tax i Net deferred tax assets liabilities 2013 2012 US$m US$m At 1 April 59 121 Differences on exchange 29 14 Tax credit in the Group income statement continuing operations note 16 32 84 Tax charge in the Group income statement discontinued operations note 17 13 2 Business combinations note 45 3 73 Tax recognised within other comprehensive income note 18 14 2 Tax recognised directly in equity on transactions with owners note 41 456 5 Transfer in respect of liabilities held for sale 36 38 Other transfers 1 2 At 31 March 421 59 Net deferred tax assets liabilities are presented in the Group balance sheet as: Deferred tax assets 643 320 Deferred tax liabilities 222 379 At 31 March 421 59 ii Gross deferred tax assets Movements in gross deferred tax assets, without taking into consideration the offsetting of assets and liabilities within the same tax jurisdiction, comprise: Accelerated Intangibles Share Tax losses Other Total depreciation incentive temporary plans differences US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2012 24 24 58 300 140 546 Differences on exchange 3 3 Tax charge credit in the Group income statement continuing operations 2 133 1 74 4 62 Tax credit in the Group income statement discontinued operations 77 10 87 Tax recognised within other comprehensive income 14 14 Tax recognised directly in equity on transactions with owners 462 6 456 Other transfers 1 1 At 31 March 2013 22 619 53 303 172 1,169 Accelerated Intangibles Share Tax losses Other Total depreciation incentive temporary plans differences US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2011 8 26 56 117 161 368 Differences on exchange 22 22 Tax credit charge in the Group income statement 16 2 3 183 64 130 Business combinations 26 26 Tax recognised directly in equity on transactions with owners 5 5 Other transfers 5 5 At 31 March 2012 24 24 58 300 140 546 The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets of US$106m 2012: US$123m in respect of losses that can be carried forward against future taxable income and deferred tax assets of US$13m 2012: US$15m in respect of capital losses that can be carried forward against future taxable gains.
These losses are available indefinitely.
At the balance sheet date there were deferred tax assets expected to reverse within the next year of US$186m 2012: US$90m.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 149 38.
Deferred and current tax continued iii Gross deferred tax liabilities Movements in gross deferred tax liabilities, without taking into consideration the offsetting of liabilities and assets within the same tax jurisdiction, comprise: Accelerated Intangibles Other Total tax temporary depreciation differences US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2012 48 531 26 605 Differences on exchange 28 2 26 Tax credit charge in the Group income statement continuing operations 16 42 4 30 Tax charge in the Group income statement discontinued operations 100 100 Business combinations 3 3 Transfer in respect of liabilities held for sale 36 36 Other transfers 1 1 At 31 March 2013 32 683 33 748 Accelerated Intangibles Other Total tax temporary depreciation differences US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2011 33 437 19 489 Differences on exchange 4 4 8 Tax charge in the Group income statement 15 32 1 48 Business combinations 99 99 Tax recognised within other comprehensive income 2 2 Transfer in respect of liabilities held for sale 38 38 Other transfers 3 3 At 31 March 2012 48 531 26 605 There are retained earnings of US$11,364m 2012: US$10,684m in subsidiary undertakings which would be subject to tax at prevailing rates if remitted to Experian plc.
Given the mix of countries and tax rates, it is not practicable to determine the tax impact in the event of such remittance.
At the balance sheet date there were deferred tax liabilities expected to reverse within the next year of US$41m 2012: US$41m.
iv UK deferred tax The main rate of UK corporation tax has been reduced to 23% with effect from 1 April 2013.
Deferred tax arising in the UK has therefore been provided at 23%.
Further proposed reductions to this rate will reduce it to 21% from 1 April 2014 and 20% from 1 April 2015 but have not yet been substantively enacted and are therefore not recognised in these financial statements.
A deferred tax provision rate of 24% was used at 31 March 2012.
150 Experian Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 38.
Deferred and current tax continued b Net current tax assets liabilities 2013 2012 US$m US$m At 1 April 46 124 Differences on exchange 1 Tax charge in the Group income statement continuing operations note 16 184 49 Tax credit in the Group income statement discontinued operations note 17 136 5 Tax recognised directly in equity on transactions with owners note 41 21 15 Tax paid note 44 d 75 116 Business combinations 5 Transfer in respect of assets held for sale 5 5 Other transfers 1 2 At 31 March 8 46 Net current tax assets liabilities are presented in the Group balance sheet as: Current tax assets 49 10 Current tax liabilities 41 56 At 31 March 8 46 39.
Provisions 2013 2012 Restructuring Other Total Restructuring Other Total costs liabilities costs liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 3 45 48 11 55 66 Differences on exchange 5 5 6 6 Business combinations 3 3 Amount charged in the year 21 11 32 8 8 Utilised 6 16 22 8 16 24 Unwinding of discount note 15 1 1 At 31 March 18 35 53 3 45 48 Disclosed within current liabilities 17 35 52 2 36 38 Disclosed within non-current liabilities 1 1 1 9 10 At 31 March 18 35 53 3 45 48 Restructuring costs in the year ended 31 March 2013 and the provision at that date principally comprise liabilities in connection with the cost efficiency programme and the amounts recognised and the timing of the related outflows are based on current expectations in respect of this programme.
It is anticipated that the programme will be completed by December 2014.
Other liabilities principally comprise liabilities of Serasa, in connection with local legal and tax issues, which were primarily recognised on the acquisition of that company in 2007.
Adjustments to such amounts are made as the exposures are concluded.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 151 40.
Called up share capital and share premium account Called up share capital of US$102m 2012: US$102m comprises the nominal value of the Companys issued share capital.
Further details relating to the share capital at the balance sheet dates, together with details of ordinary shares issued during the year and since 31 March 2013, are contained in note N to the parent company financial statements.
The share premium account of US$1,480m 2012: US$1,471m comprises the amount received in excess of the nominal value of the shares issued by way of i the share offer in October 2006, net of expenses, and ii the subsequent issue of ordinary shares in connection with employee share incentive plans.
Movements in the current and prior year are summarised in the Group statement of changes in total equity.
The difference between the amounts shown in the Group and parent company financial statements in respect of called up share capital and the share premium account arose due to the translation of the sterling amounts into US dollars at the different exchange rates on the different translation dates.
The differences for share capital and the share premium account, with the larger numbers being reported in the Group financial statements, are US$23m and US$329m respectively at both balance sheet dates.
Retained earnings Retained earnings comprise net profits retained in the Group after the payment of equity dividends.
There are no significant statutory, contractual or exchange control restrictions on distributions by Group undertakings.
The movements in retained earnings in the year ended 31 March 2013 include the following amounts recognised directly as other comprehensive income.
These items are net of related tax with a full analysis of the pre-tax and post-tax amounts given in note 18.
2013 2012 US$m US$m Actuarial losses gains on defined benefit pension plans 48 7 Fair value gains on available-for-sale financial assets 3 45 7 As indicated in the Group statement of changes in total equity, in the year ended 31 March 2013, a tax credit of US$15m 2012: US$20m was recognised directly in equity within the retained earnings reserve on transactions with owners.
This relates to employee share incentive plans and comprises a current tax credit of US$21m 2012: US$15m and a deferred tax charge of US$6m 2012: credit of US$5m.
A further deferred tax credit of US$462m has been recognised in equity in the year ended 31 March 2013 in respect of the acquisition of the additional interest in Serasa.
Other reserves a Movements in other reserves Merger Hedging Translation Own Total reserve reserve reserve shares other reserve reserves US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2012 15,682 11 12 492 16,151 Purchase of own shares by employee trusts 221 221 Exercise of share awards and options 148 148 Currency translation losses recognised in other comprehensive income 23 23 At 31 March 2013 15,682 11 11 565 16,247 Merger Hedging Translation Own Total reserve reserve reserve shares other reserve reserves US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2011 15,682 11 60 434 16,045 Purchase of own shares by employee trusts 224 224 Exercise of share awards and options 166 166 Currency translation losses recognised in other comprehensive income 48 48 At 31 March 2012 15,682 11 12 492 16,151 152 Experian Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 42.
Other reserves continued b Nature of other reserves The merger reserve arose on the demerger in October 2006 and represents the difference between the share capital and share premium of GUS plc and the nominal value of the share capital of the Company before the share offer in October 2006 and subsequent share issues.
GUS plc changed its name to Experian Finance plc after the demerger and remains a subsidiary undertaking.
Movements on the hedging reserve and the position at the balance sheet date reflect hedging transactions which are not charged or credited to the Group income statement, net of related tax.
Movements on the translation reserve and the position at the balance sheet date reflect foreign currency translations since 1 April 2004 which are not charged or credited to the Group income statement, net of related tax.
The movement in the year ended 31 March 2013 comprises currency translation losses of US$23m 2012: US$48m recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
The balance on the own shares reserve represents the cost of ordinary shares in the Company and further details are given in note c below.
The difference between the amounts shown in the Group and parent company financial statements in respect of the own shares reserve arose due to the translation of the sterling amounts into US dollars at the different exchange rates on the different translation dates.
The difference is US$32m at both balance sheet dates, with the larger number being reported in the Group financial statements.
c Movements in own shares held and own share reserve Number of own shares held Cost of own shares held Treasury Trusts Total Treasury Trusts Total million million million US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2012 24 16 40 274 218 492 Purchase of own shares 14 14 221 221 Exercise of share options and awards 12 12 148 148 Transfers 4 4 40 40 At 31 March 2013 20 22 42 234 331 565 Number of own shares held Cost of own shares held Treasury Trusts Total Treasury Trusts Total million million million US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2011 30 8 38 334 100 434 Purchase of own shares 18 18 224 224 Exercise of share options and awards 16 16 166 166 Transfers 6 6 60 60 At 31 March 2012 24 16 40 274 218 492 43.
Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests of US$40m 2012: US$159m represents the share of net assets of subsidiary undertakings held outside the Group and, at 31 March 2012, principally related to the 30% stake in Serasa which was acquired in the year ended 31 March 2013.
Movements in non-controlling interests in the current and prior year are summarised in the Group statement of changes in total equity and include currency translation losses of US$16m 2012: US$16m recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Further details of movements arising as a results of transactions with non-controlling interests are given in note 46.
Obligations for options in respect of non-controlling interests are reported within other financial liabilities note 32 a.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 153 44.
Notes to the Group cash flow statement a Cash generated from operations 2013 2012 US$m US$m Profit after tax 288 724 Adjustments for: Group tax charge credit 152 35 Share of post-tax loss of associates 2 Net finance costs 619 361 Operating profit 1,059 1,052 Loss on disposals of fixed assets 2 4 Loss gain on disposal of businesses 12 8 Depreciation and amortisation 465 434 Charge in respect of share incentive plans 78 65 Increase decrease in working capital note 44 b 29 20 Acquisition expenses difference between Group income statement charge and amount paid 20 Adjustment to the fair value of contingent consideration 1 3 Movement in exceptional items included in working capital 14 5 Cash generated from operations 1,602 1,539 b Increase decrease in working capital 2013 2012 US$m US$m Inventories 3 3 Trade and other receivables 68 38 Trade and other payables 39 57 Difference between pension current service cost and contributions paid 3 2 Increase decrease in working capital 29 20 c Reconciliation of cash outflow in respect of exceptional items 2013 2012 US$m US$m Total exceptional items note 13 66 12 Interest received on legacy tax balances 4 Working capital movements 14 5 Asset write-offs 13 Loss gain on disposal of businesses 12 8 Cash outflow in respect of exceptional items 27 5 d Cash outflow in respect of tax 2013 2012 US$m US$m Tax paid continuing operations 162 107 Tax received paid discontinued operations note 17 b : Tax received paid on income 2 9 Tax relief on disposal transaction 85 Tax received paid in respect of discontinued operations 87 9 Cash outflow in respect of tax 75 116 e Purchase of other intangible assets 2013 2012 US$m US$m Databases 211 218 Internal use software 57 55 Internally generated software 77 96 Purchase of other intangible assets 345 369 154 Experian Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 44.
Notes to the Group cash flow statement continued f Cash flows on acquisitions non-GAAP measure 2013 2012 US$m US$m Purchase of subsidiaries note 45 23 785 Net cash acquired with subsidiaries 53 Deferred consideration settled on acquisitions 15 14 Net cash outflow for acquisition of subsidiaries as reported in the Group cash flow statement 38 746 Acquisition expenses transaction expenses paid on behalf of vendors 18 Acquisition expenses other amounts paid 4 11 Payments to acquire non-controlling interests note 44 h 1,507 12 Net cash outflow for acquisitions non-GAAP measure 1,549 787 g Cash outflow in respect of net share purchases non-GAAP measure 2013 2012 US$m US$m Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 9 11 Other proceeds from vesting of share awards and exercise of share options 61 54 Purchase of own shares by employee trusts for employee share incentive plans 250 232 Cash outflow in respect of net share purchases non-GAAP measure 180 167 h Payments to acquire non-controlling interests 2013 2012 US$m US$m Payment to shareholders in Serasa for purchase of additional interest 1,487 Expenses in connection with the purchase of additional interest in Serasa 13 Payments to acquire additional interest in Serasa 1,500 Other payments to acquire non-controlling interests 7 12 Payments to acquire non-controlling interests 1,507 12 i Analysis of cash and cash equivalents 2013 2012 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents in the Group balance sheet 229 254 Bank overdrafts 3 Cash and cash equivalents in the Group cash flow statement 226 254 j Reconciliation of Cash generated from operations to Operating cash flow non-GAAP measure 2013 2012 US$m US$m Cash generated from operations note 44 a 1,602 1,539 Acquisition expenses paid 4 29 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 115 84 Purchase of other intangible assets note 44 e 345 369 Sale of property, plant and equipment 1 3 Dividends received from associates 1 1 Cash outflow in respect of exceptional items note 44 c 27 5 Operating cash flow 1,175 1,124 There were cash flows of US$115m 2012: US$84m for the purchase of property, plant and equipment after receipts of US$nil 2012: US$11m in the form of landlord incentives.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 155 45.
Acquisitions a Acquisitions in the year The Group made three acquisitions during the year ended 31 March 2013, none of which is individually material and in connection with which provisional goodwill of US$27m was recognised based on the fair value of the net assets acquired of US$6m.
b Net assets acquired Details of the net assets acquired at provisional fair values and the consideration and goodwill arising are given below.
US$m Intangible assets: Customer and other relationships 4 Software development 6 Intangible assets 10 Trade and other receivables 4 Trade and other payables 5 Deferred tax liabilities 3 Total identifiable net assets 6 Goodwill 27 Total 33 Satisfied by: Cash 23 Recognition of non-controlling interest 1 Equity shares not yet settled 9 Total 33 The provisional fair values above contain certain amounts which will be finalised no later than one year after the date of acquisition.
Provisional amounts have been included at 31 March 2013 as a consequence of the timing and complexity of the acquisitions.
Goodwill represents the synergies, assembled workforces and future growth potential of the businesses acquired.
None of the goodwill arising in the year of US$27m is currently deductible for tax purposes.
c Additional information i Additional information in respect of current year acquisitions US$m Increase in book value from fair value adjustments: Intangible assets 10 Other assets and liabilities 4 Increase in book value from fair value adjustments 6 1 Gross contractual amounts receivable in respect of trade and other receivables 4 Revenue from 1 April 2012 to dates of acquisition 9 Revenue from dates of acquisition to 31 March 2013 15 2 Profit before tax from dates of acquisition to 31 March 2013 1.
At the dates of acquisition, these amounts were expected to be collected in full.
It has been impracticable to estimate the impact on Group profit after tax had the acquired entities been owned from 1 April 2012, as their accounting policies and period end dates did not accord with those of the Group prior to their acquisition.
ii Additional information in respect of current and prior year acquisitions There have been no material gains, losses, error corrections or other adjustments recognised in the year ended 31 March 2013 that relate to acquisitions in the current or previous years.
The cash outflow of US$746m in the year ended 31 March 2012 was principally attributable to the acquisitions of Computec S. A. and Medical Present Value, Inc. 156 Experian Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 46.
Transactions with non-controlling interests a Acquisition of additional interest in Serasa In November 2012, the Group completed the acquisition of a further 29.6% interest in Serasa SA taking its holding to 99.6%.
This transaction was not a related party transaction under IFRS.
The treatment of the changes in this ownership interest in the financial statements is summarised below.
i Movements in total equity US$m Decrease in equity attributable to owners of Experian plc: Payment to shareholders in Serasa for purchase of additional interest 1,487 Expenses in connection with the purchase of additional interest in Serasa 13 Payments to acquire additional interest in Serasa charged to equity 1,500 Derecognition of put option liability - credited to equity 1,487 Deferred tax asset recognised 462 Movement on derecognition of non-controlling interest 85 Increase in equity attributable to owners of Experian plc 534 Derecognition of non-controlling interest 85 Increase in total equity 449 ii In the Group cash flow statement payments to acquire additional interest in Serasa US$m Payment to shareholders in Serasa for purchase of additional interest 1,487 Expenses in connection with the purchase of additional interest in Serasa 13 Payments to acquire additional interest in Serasa 1,500 b Other transactions with non-controlling interests The Group derecognised non-controlling interests of US$4m and recorded a decrease in equity of US$4m in the year ended 31 March 2013 as a result of a number of small transactions.
There was a related cash outflow of US$7m.
Disposals a Disposal of comparison shopping and lead generation businesses i Profit on disposal US$m Net assets disposed of book value at date of disposal: Goodwill 11 Other intangible assets 35 Property, plant and equipment 8 Trade receivables 23 Other prepayments and accrued income 14 Deferred tax liability 2 Trade payables 1 Accruals and deferred income 20 Net assets disposed 68 Disposal proceeds: Proceeds received in cash 2 Loan note 78 Transaction costs 12 Total net proceeds 68 Profit on disposal Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 157 47.
Disposals continued ii Cash outflow from disposal US$m Proceeds received in cash 2 Transaction costs paid 10 Net cash outflow 8 As indicated in note 17, the comparison shopping and lead generation businesses were sold in October 2012.
Further consideration is available to Experian if defined profit targets are achieved over time and in certain other circumstances, up to a fully inclusive total of US$110m.
The assets and liabilities of these businesses at 31 March 2012 were classified as held for sale and details are provided in note 17. b Other disposals There was a loss of US$12m on a number of small disposals during the year with an associated cash inflow of US$5m.
Operating lease commitments minimum lease payments 2013 2012 US$m US$m Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases are payable: In less than one year 73 63 Between one and five years 149 138 In more than five years 51 67 273 268 The Group leases offices and technology under non-cancellable operating lease agreements with varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights and the charge for the year was US$71m 2012: US$69m.
Capital commitments 2013 2012 US$m US$m Capital expenditure for which contracts have been placed: Intangible assets 106 128 Property, plant and equipment 13 34 119 162 Capital commitments at 31 March 2013 include commitments of US$77m not expected to be incurred before 31 March 2014.
Capital commitments as at 31 March 2012 included commitments of US$104m not then expected to be incurred before 31 March 2013.
Contingencies There are a number of pending and threatened litigation claims involving the Group in North America and Latin America which are being vigorously defended.
The directors do not believe that the outcome of any such pending or threatened litigation will have a materially adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
However, as is inherent in legal proceedings, there is a risk of outcomes that are unfavourable to the Group.
In the case of unfavourable outcomes the Group would benefit from applicable insurance recoveries.
As previously indicated, Serasa has been advised that the Brazilian tax authorities are challenging the deduction for tax purposes of goodwill amortisation arising from the acquisition of Serasa in 2007.
Experian believes that the possibility of this resulting in a liability to the Group is remote, on the basis of the advice of external legal counsel and other factors in respect of the claim.
158 Experian Annual Report 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 51.
Related party transactions a Subsidiary undertakings and associates Significant subsidiary undertakings at 31 March 2013 are shown in note T to the parent company financial statements.
There were no individually material associates during the current or prior year and accordingly no related party transactions are reported with such entities.
b Remuneration of key management personnel 2013 2012 US$m US$m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 9 12 Retirement benefits 1 1 Share incentive plans 15 18 25 31 Key management personnel comprises the executive directors and their remuneration is charged to labour costs.
The amount included in respect of share incentive plans includes costs in respect of demerger-related share incentive plans in the year ended 31 March 2012.
Further details of directors remuneration are given in the audited part of the report on directors remuneration.
Other than remuneration, there were no material transactions or balances between the Group and its key management personnel or members of their close families in either the current or previous year.
Events occurring after the end of the reporting period Details of the second interim dividend announced since the end of the reporting period are given in note 20.
On 2 April 2013 the Group acquired 100% of Decisioning Solutions Inc. a provider of a hosted  SaaS customer acquisition platform, in Canada for US$59m including US$5m of cash acquired.
The fair value of goodwill, software development, customer relationships and other assets and liabilities will be reported on an aggregate basis with any further acquisitions in the Groups half-yearly financial statements for the six months ending 30 September 2013 and in the 2014 annual report.
