89 F I N AN C IAL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1: Corporate information Organisation and operation Ferrexpo plc the Company is incorporated in the United Kingdom with registered office at 24 King Street, London, SW1Y 6QL, UK.
Ferrexpo plc and its subsidiaries the Group operate a mine and processing plant near Kremenchug in Ukraine, an interest in a port in Odessa and sales and marketing activities in Switzerland, Dubai and Kyiv.
The Group also owns a logistics group located in Austria which operates a fleet of vessels operating on the Rhine and Danube waterways.
The Groups operations are vertically integrated from iron ore mining through to iron ore concentrate and pellet production and subsequent logistics.
The Groups mineral properties lie within the Kremenchug Magnetic Anomaly and are currently being exploited at the  and Lavrikovskoye GPL and Yeristovskoye deposits.
The majority shareholder of the Group is Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. Fevamotinico, a company ultimately owned by The Minco Trust, of which Kostyantin Zhevago, the Groups Chief Executive Officer, is a beneficiary.
At the time this report was published, Fevamotinico held 50.3% 2012: 51.0% of Ferrexpo plcs issued share capital.
The Groups operations are largely conducted through Ferrexpo plcs principal subsidiary, OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining.
The Group comprises Ferrexpo plc and its consolidated subsidiaries as set out below: Equity interest owned Country of 31.12.13 31.12.12 Name incorporation Principal activity % % OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining Ukraine Iron ore mining 97.3 97.3 Ferrexpo AG Switzerland Sale of iron ore pellets 100.0 100.0 DP Ferrotrans Ukraine Trade, transportation services 97.3 97.3 United Energy Company LLC Ukraine Holding company 97.3 97.3 Ferrexpo Finance plc England Finance 100.0 100.0 Ferrexpo Services Limited Ukraine Management services and procurement 100.0 100.0 Ferrexpo Hong Kong Limited China Marketing services 100.0 100.0 LLC Ferrexpo Yeristovo GOK Ukraine Iron ore mining 100.0 100.0 LLC Ferrexpo Belanovo GOK Ukraine Iron ore mining 100.0 100.0 Nova Logistics Limited Ukraine Service company dormant 51.0 51.0 Ferrexpo Middle East FZE U.
A. E. Sale of iron ore pellets 100.0 100.0 Ferrexpo Singapore PTE Ltd. Singapore Marketing services 100.0 100.0 First-DDSG Logistics Holding GmbH Austria Holding company 100.0 100.0 EDDSG GmbH Austria Barging company 100.0 100.0 DDSG Tankschiffahrt GmbH Austria Barging company 100.0 100.0 3 DDSG Services GmbH Austria Barging company 100.0 100.0 DDSG Mahart Kft.
Hungary Barging company 100.0 100.0 Pancar Kft.
Hungary Barging company 100.0 100.0 Ferrexpo Port Services GmbH Austria Port services 100.0 100.0 Ferrexpo Shipping International Ltd. Marshall Islands Holding company 100.0 100.0 Iron Destiny Ltd. Marshall Islands Shipping company 100.0 100.0 Transcanal SRL Romania Port services 77.6 77.6 Helogistics Asset Leasing Kft.
Hungary Asset holding company 100.0 100.0 1 Universal Services Group Ltd. Ukraine Asset holding company 100.0 100.0 2 LLC DDSG Ukraine Holding Ukraine Holding company 100.0 2 LLC DDSG Invest Ukraine Asset holding company 100.0 2 LLC DDSG Ukraine Shipping Management Ukraine Barging company 100.0 2 LLC DDSG Ukraine Shipping Ukraine Asset holding company 100.0 1 The entity was incorporated in December 2012.
2 The entities were incorporated in February and March 2013.
The Groups interests in the entities listed above are held indirectly by the Company, with the exception of Ferrexpo AG which is directly held.
The Group also holds an interest of 48.6% 2012: 48.6% in TIS Ruda, a Ukrainian port located on the Black Sea.
As this is an associate, it is accounted for using the equity method of accounting and further disclosed in note 14.
90 F I N AN C I AL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Ferrexpo plc and its subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for post-employment benefits and availablefor-sale financial instruments, the latter measured at fair value in accordance with the requirements of IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement, the former measured in accordance with IAS 19 revised Employee benefits.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in thousands of US Dollars and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand except where otherwise indicated.
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are consistent with those followed in the preparation of the Groups annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012, except for those changes detailed in note 3.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements for Ferrexpo plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.
The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared as at the same reporting date as Ferrexpo plcs, using consistent accounting policies.
Subsidiaries acquired are fully consolidated from the date of effective control, when the Group obtains effective control.
Similarly, subsidiaries disposed of are deconsolidated from the date on which the Group ceases to hold effective control.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary without obtaining or losing control is accounted for as an equity transaction.
All intercompany balances and transactions including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions have been eliminated in full.
Unrealised losses are eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered.
Business combination and goodwill On the acquisition of a subsidiary, the business combination is accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregated amount of the consideration transferred, measured at the date of acquisition.
The consideration paid is allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the basis of fair values at the date of acquisition.
Acquisition costs are expensed when incurred and included in general and administrative expenses.
If the cost of acquisition exceeds the identifiable net assets attributable to the Group, the difference is considered as purchased goodwill, which is not amortised but annually reviewed for impairment or in case of an indication of impairment.
In the case that the identifiable net assets attributable to the Group exceed the cost of acquisition, the difference is recognised in profit and loss as a gain on bargain purchase.
For each business combination, the Group measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
If the initial accounting for a business combination cannot be completed by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, only provisional amounts are reported, which can be adjusted during the measurement period of 12 months after acquisition date.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Details of the impairment testing are disclosed in note 19.
Investments in associates The Groups investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence and which is neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture.
Under the equity method, the investment in the associate is carried in the statement of financial position at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate.
Goodwill relating to an associate is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not amortised nor individually tested for impairment.
After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise any additional impairment loss with respect to the Groups investment in the associate.
91 F I N AN C IAL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued The share of profit of an associate is shown on the face of the income statement.
This is the profit attributable to the Group and therefore is profit after tax and non-controlling interests in the subsidiaries of the associate.
The reporting dates of the associates and Ferrexpo plc are identical and the associates accounting policies are generally in conformity with those applied by the Group.
Functional and presentational currencies Based on the economic substance of the underlying business transactions and circumstances relevant to the parent, the functional currency of the parent has been determined to be the US Dollar, with each subsidiary determining its own functional currency based on its own circumstances.
The Group has chosen the US Dollar as its presentational currency.
The functional currency of Ukrainian subsidiaries, which is where the Groups main operations are based, is the Ukrainian Hryvnia.
Foreign currency translation For individual subsidiary company accounts, transactions in foreign currencies i. e. other than the functional currency are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date and non-monetary assets and liabilities at the historic rate.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
For presentation of Group consolidated accounts, if the functional currency of a subsidiary is different to the presentational currency as at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of this entity are translated into the presentational currency at the rate ruling at the reporting date and the income statement is translated using the average exchange rate for the period based on the officially published rates by the National Bank of Ukraine NBU.
The foreign exchange differences arising are taken directly to a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign entity the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to the particular foreign operation is recognised in the income statement.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: Sale of goods including pellet sales Revenue is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, customs duties and sales taxes.
Risks and rewards of the ownership of goods passes when title for the goods passes to the customer as determined by the terms of the sales agreement.
The sales are typically made under the following terms: CIF Cost Insurance and Freight : CFR Cost and Freight : DAP Delivery At Place : or FOB Free on Board.
Under the CFR and FOB terms the title passes on the bill of lading date whereas under the other terms revenue is recognised when goods arrive at agreed destination or at border crossing.
If the sales agreement allows for adjustment of the sales prices based on survey of the goods by the customer e. g. ore content the revenue is recognised based on the most recent determined product specification.
Other sales Other sales include the processing and sale of ore and ore concentrate, the sale of spare parts, materials and crushed rocks and the repair and rental of railway wagons.
Logistic services Revenue from logistic services rendered is recognised as the services are completed.
Where services are invoiced in advance of discharge, amounts attributable to the time between the end of the reporting period and the discharge date are deferred.
92 F I N AN C I AL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Rendering of services Revenue from the rendering of services is recognised when services are complete.
Sales of services primarily include repairs, canteen revenue and recharges to local customers for electricity consumption and railway usage.
Rental income Rental income arising from operating leases is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease terms.
Foreign exchange gains and losses Foreign exchange gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
Operating foreign exchange gains and losses are those resulting directly from the Groups operating activities.
Non-operating gains and losses are predominately those associated with the sale of assets including monetary assets, the translation of interest-bearing loans and borrowings denominated in currencies different to the respective functional currencies and transactional gains and losses from the conversion of cash balances in currencies different to the local functional currencies at exchange rates different to those at the initial recognition date.
Finance income and expense Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Finance expenses comprise the interest expense on borrowings and other financial liabilities.
Finance expenses also comprise the effect of the estimated discount of overdue VAT balances expected to be received after more than 12 months following the period end.
Taxes Current income tax Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount estimated to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
See notes 4 and 16 for further details.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the reporting date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, if it is probable that they become taxable, except: where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
93 F I N AN C IAL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Income tax on items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
Value added tax Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of value added tax VAT, except: where VAT incurred on a purchase of assets or services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case VAT is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of expense item as applicable: and receivables and payables are stated with the amount of VAT included.
VAT receivable balances are not discounted unless the overdue balances are expected to be received after more than 12 months following the period end.
Where intentions have been communicated that VAT repayments, which are due, are to be converted into bonds or other financial instruments and management considers acceptance of such instruments as consideration for VAT due, these are valued at the estimated market value of such instruments with any adjustment charged to the income statement.
Further detailed information is disclosed in note 26 to the financial statements.
Equity Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of Ordinary Shares and share options are recognised as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects.
Employee benefit trust reserve Ferrexpo plc shares held by the Group are classified in capital and reserves as the employee benefit trust reserve and recognised at cost.
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost taken to revenue reserves.
No gain or loss is recognised on the purchase, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
Treasury shares Own equity instruments which are reacquired treasury shares are recognised at cost and deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups own equity instruments.
Any difference between the carrying amount and the consideration is recognised in other capital reserves.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value.
Any transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets or financial liabilities are added or deducted from its fair value except for financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
For those financial assets and financial liabilities, the transactions costs are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The subsequent measurement is based on the classification of the financial asset and financial liability.
Financial assets Derivative financial instruments The Group does not hold any derivative financial instruments.
94 F I N AN C I AL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Non-derivative financial instruments Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity and debt securities e. g. promissory notes, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings and trade and other payables.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value being the fair value of the consideration given or received plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date i. e. the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Regular way purchases or sales are those that require delivery of assets within the period generally established by regulation or convention in the marketplace.
The Group has not designated any financial assets as at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired along with the amortisation process.
For trade and other receivables with normal payment terms it is expected that their fair value is equal to the carrying value due to the short maturity.
Available-for-sale financial assets All investments, except for investments in associates, are classified as available-for-sale.
Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as available-for-sale or are not classified as loans or receivables, held-to-maturity investments or financial assets at FVTPL.
After initial measurement and if fair value can be reliably measured, available-for-sale financial investments are subsequently measured at fair value with unrealised gains or losses recognised as other comprehensive income in the available-for-sale reserve until the investment is derecognised.
At this time, the cumulative gains or losses are recognised in other operating income, or determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative losses are recognised in the income statement in finance costs and removed from the available-for-sale reserve.
The fair value of investments that are actively traded in organised financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market bid prices at the close of business on the reporting date.
For investments without an active market, the fair value is determined using other valuation techniques including discounted cash flow models and reference to recent transaction prices.
If the fair value of an available-forsale equity investment cannot be reliably measured, the investment is measured at cost less any impairment losses.
Other Other non-derivative financial instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any impairment losses.
Financial liabilities Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are recognised and initially measured at fair value which are approximately equal to their carrying amounts due to the short maturity.
Subsequently, instruments with a fixed maturity are remeasured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any transaction costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the amortisation process.
Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
95 F I N AN C IAL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced either directly or through use of an allowance account.
The amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant.
If it is determined that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment.
Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
Available-for-sale financial assets For available-for-sale financial investments, the Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that an investment or a group of investments is impaired.
In the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, objective evidence would include a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment below its cost.
Where there is evidence of impairment, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that investment previously recognised in the income statement is removed from other comprehensive income and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses on equity investments are not reversed through the income statement: increases in their fair value after impairment are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date, i. e. whether fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset, even it that right is not specified in an arrangement.
Group as a lessee Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are recognised in the income statement.
Leased assets are depreciated over the useful life of the asset.
However, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, the asset is depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Group as a lessor Leases in which the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same bases as rental income.
Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are earned.
96 F I N AN C I AL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective assets.
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they occur.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
In the case of general borrowings used to fund the acquisition or construction costs of qualifying assets, the borrowing costs to be capitalised are calculated based on a weighted average interest rate applicable to the relevant general borrowings of the Group during a specific period.
The Group capitalises borrowing costs for all qualifying assets where construction was commenced on or after 1 January 2009.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and or accumulated impairment losses, if any.
Such cost includes the cost of replacing part of the property, plant and equipment and borrowing costs for long-term construction projects if the recognition criteria are met.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
Major spare parts and stand-by equipment qualify as property, plant and equipment when they are expected to be used during more than one period.
Expenditure incurred after the assets have been put into operation, such as repairs and maintenance and overhaul costs, are normally charged to the income statement in the period the costs are incurred.
In situations where it can be clearly demonstrated that the expenditure results in future economic benefits, the expenditure is capitalised as an additional cost.
Upon recognition, items of property, plant and equipment are divided into components, which represent items with a significant value that have different useful lives.
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its estimated useful life which is calculated with due regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the item is located.
Estimates of remaining useful lives are made on a regular basis for all mine buildings, machinery and equipment, with annual reassessments for major items.
Changes in estimates, which affect unit of production calculations, are accounted for prospectively.
Except for mining assets which are depreciated using the unit of production method, depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset, as follows: Buildings: 2050 years Vessels: 3040 years Plant and equipment: 315 years Vehicles: 715 years Fixtures and fittings: 2.510 years An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item is included in the income statement in the year the item is derecognised.
Assets in the course of construction are initially recognised in a separate category of property, plant and equipment.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category.
Assets under construction are not depreciated.
On acquisition, the cost of property, plant and equipment is capitalised on the statement of financial position.
Depreciation commences when the item is available for use.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Major spare parts and servicing equipment that meet the definition of property, plant and equipment are included in this asset category of the statement of financial position.
97 F I N AN C IAL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Stripping costs included in mining assets and assets under construction Stripping costs in relation to mine exploration, evaluation and development costs incurred up to the commencement of the production are included in assets under construction.
Stripping work comprises overburden removal at the pre-production, mine extension and production stages.
After the commencement of production, the respective capitalised pre-production stripping costs are transferred to mining assets and depreciated using the unit of production method based on the estimated economically recoverable reserves to which they relate.
The production stripping costs are generally charged to the income statement as variable production costs.
The production stripping costs are only capitalised if the stripping activities result in improved access to a component ore body and the duration of the future benefits is ascertained without a high degree of judgement.
If capitalised, the production stripping costs are included in mining assets and depreciated using the same methodology as for the capitalised pre-production stripping costs see above.
The cost of removal of the waste material during a mines production phase is expensed as incurred.
Exploration and evaluation assets Costs incurred in relation to the exploration and evaluation of potential iron ore deposits are capitalised and classified as tangible or intangible assets depending on the nature of the expenditures.
Costs associated with exploratory drilling, researching and analysing of exploration data and costs of pre-feasibility studies are included in tangible assets whereas those associated with the acquisition of licences are included in intangible assets.
Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditures are carried forward as an asset as long as these costs are expected to be recouped in full through successful development and exploration in a future period.
Exploration and evaluation assets included in intangible and tangible assets are measured at cost and neither amortised nor depreciated, but monitored for indications of impairment.
To the extent that the capitalised expenditures are not expected to be recouped the excess is fully provided for in the financial year in which this is determined.
Upon reaching the development stage, exploration and evaluation assets are transferred to asset under construction.
Intangible assets Goodwill The policies applied for the initial recognition and subsequent measurement of goodwill are described under Goodwill and other intangible assets on pages 102 and 113.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost.
The cost of other intangible assets acquired in a business combination is its fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of other intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite.
Amortisation Other intangible assets, other than goodwill, primarily comprise capitalised software costs, which are amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset, ranging between one and three years.
Capitalised mineral licences are amortised on a unit of production basis.
Impairment of assets excluding financial assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value-in-use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a market-determined pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the income statement.
Refer to note 19 for details on the impairment testing of goodwill.
98 F I N AN C I AL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Such reversal is recognised in the income statement.
After such a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition are accounted for as follows: Raw materials at cost on a first-in, first-out basis.
Finished goods and work in progress at cost of direct materials and labour and a proportion of manufacturing overheads based on normal operating capacity, but excluding borrowing costs.
The net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Major spare parts and servicing equipment that meet the definition of property, plant and equipment are, in accordance with IAS 16, included in property, plant and equipment and not in inventory.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and on hand as well as short-term deposits with original maturity of 90 days or less.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
Site restoration costs Site restoration provisions are made in respect of the estimated future costs of closure and restoration and for environmental rehabilitation costs determined by an independent expert in the accounting period when the related environmental disturbance occurs.
The provision is discounted, if material, and the unwinding of the discount is included in finance costs.
At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is capitalised where it gives rise to a future benefit and depreciated over future production from the mine to which it relates.
The provision is reviewed on an annual basis for changes in cost estimates, discount rates or the life of operations.
Defined benefit pension liability The defined benefit costs relating to the plans operated by the Group in the different countries are determined and accrued in the consolidated financial statements using the projected unit credit method for those employees entitled to such payments.
The underlying assumptions are defined by the management and the defined benefit pension liability is calculated by independent actuaries at the end of each annual reporting period.
99 F I N AN C IAL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Remeasurement, comprising actuarial gains and losses, effects of changes in asset ceiling and the return on plan assets excluding interest, is immediately reflected in the statement of financial position.
The corresponding charge or credit is recognised in the other comprehensive income of the period in which occurred and immediately reflected in retained earnings as not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods.
The net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit pension liability or plan assets.
Any past service costs are recognised in profit or loss at the earlier of when the plan amendment occurs or when related restructuring costs are recognised.
The service costs including current and past are included in cost of sales, selling and distribution expenses and general and administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement whereas the net finance expenses are included in finance expenses.
The effects from remeasurements are recognised in the other comprehensive income.
The defined benefit pension liability is the aggregate of the defined benefit obligation less plan assets of funded schemes.
The Group operates funded and unfunded schemes.
Further details of the different schemes are provided in note 31.
Earnings per share The basic number of Ordinary Shares is calculated by reducing the total number of Ordinary Shares in issue by the weighted average of shares held in treasury and employee benefit trust reserve.
For the current and prior year periods, basic EPS is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders of Ferrexpo plc by the number of Ordinary Shares as defined above.
The number of Ordinary Shares in issue excludes the shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust and the treasury shares held by the Group.
Diluted earnings per share are calculated by adjusting the number of Ordinary Shares in issue on the assumption of conversion of all potentially dilutive Ordinary Shares.
All share awards are potentially dilutive and are considered in the calculation of diluted earnings per share.
Share-based payments Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the grant date and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined by reference to the quoted closing share price on the grant date.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, except for market conditions.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is dependent upon a market condition.
In these cases, the awards are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
At each reporting date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated: representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous reporting date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Long-Term Incentive Plans LTIPs The LTIPs are share-based schemes whereby certain senior management and executives receive rewards based on the relative Total Shareholder Return TSR outperformance of the Group compared with a group of companies, which operate within a similar environment.
The cost of equity-settled awards is measured as described above together with an estimate of future social security contributions payable in respect of this value.
Where the granting of an LTIP is subject to the satisfaction of certain market conditions, a vesting charge is recognised irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Where awards terminate before the performance period is complete, any unamortised expense is recognised immediately.
100 F I N AN C I AL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Note 3: New accounting policies The accounting policies and methods of computation adopted in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are the same as those followed in the preparation of the Groups annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 except for the adoption of new amendments and improvements to IFRSs effective as of 1 January 2013, noted below: Standards adopted affecting reported results, financial position or disclosures IAS 1 Financial statement presentation presentation of items of other comprehensive income The amended standard became effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2012.
The amendment requires the grouping of items in other comprehensive income based on whether they will be potentially reclassifiable to profit or loss at a future point of time or whether they will never be reclassified.
The amendment did affect the presentation of the consolidated statement of comprehensive income only and did not have an impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment The improvement clarifies that major spare parts and servicing equipment that meet the definition of property, plant and equipment are not inventory and became effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The amendment affected presentation only and did not have an impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
As a result of this improvement, major spare parts and servicing equipment were reclassified from inventory to property, plant and equipment and previously disclosed balances for the comparative period ended 31 December 2012 changed by US$5,524 thousand.
The effect of this improvement as of 31 December 2013 is US$7,574 thousand without a material impact on the Groups consolidated income statement and basic and diluted earnings per share.
IAS 19 Employee benefits The most fundamental change of the numerous amendments made to IAS 19 is to remove the so-called corridor-approach and to require the recognition of all actuarial gains and losses from the remeasurement of the defined benefit obligation and the fair values of the plan assets in other comprehensive income in the current period.
In addition, finance income from scheme assets is now recognised as part of the interest on the net defined benefit liability using the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation: unvested past service costs are now recognised in profit or loss at the earlier of when the amendment occurs or when the related restructuring or termination costs are recognised: and scheme administration costs other than costs of managing the plan assets are recognised in profit and loss as they are incurred.
The amendments became effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and the retrospective adoption requires to change the opening statement of financial position of the earliest comparative period presented.
The tables below provide the details of these effects: Defined benefit US$000 pension liability Tax effect Equity effect Defined benefit pension liability as at 31 December 2011 13,329 Application of IAS 19 revised as at 31 December 2011 51,669 8,203 43,466 Defined benefit pension liability as at 1 January 2012 effect on deferred tax assets and equity 64,998 8,203 43,466 As a result of the retrospective application of IAS 19 revised, the total equity of the shareholders as of 31 December 2011 decreased from US$1,393,129 thousand to US$1,349,663 thousand.
As a result of the retrospective adoption of the amendments to IAS 19, the defined benefit pension liability and costs of the comparative period ended 31December 2012 changed as follows: Defined benefit US$000 pension liability Tax effect Equity effect Defined benefit pension liability as at 31 December 2012 23,504 Application of IAS 19 revised as at 31 December 2011 51,669 8,203 43,466 Change of the pension costs recorded in financial year 2012: Personnel costs included in cost of sales 3,847 731 3,116 Finance expense 112 21 91 Unrecognised actuarial gains included in other comprehensive income 21,244 3,404 17,840 Foreign exchange translation adjustments 1 1 Change of non-controlling interest 81 Defined benefit pension liability as at 1 January 2013 effect on deferred tax assets and equity 50,195 4,089 22,683 101 F I N AN C IAL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Note 3: New accounting policies continued The application of IAS 19 revised did not have a material impact on the Groups consolidated statement of cash flows, the basic and diluted earnings per share of the comparative period ended 31 December 2012.
The effect of IAS 19 revised on the current year service costs is US$3,236 thousand without a material impact on the Groups basic and diluted earnings per share.
Further details in respect of the defined benefit pension liability are provided in note 31.
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement The new standard became effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and provides guidance on how to measure fair value under IFRS when fair value is required or permitted by other standards and requires additional specific disclosures.
Other than the additional disclosure requirements, the adoption of this new standard did not have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
The additional disclosures are made in note 37.
Standards and interpretations adopted with no effect on reported results, financial position or disclosures IFRS 1 First-time adoption of IFRS government loans The amendment requires first-time adopters to apply the requirements of IAS 20 Accounting for government grants and disclosure of government assistance prospectively to government loans existing at the date of transition to IFRS.
This amendment became effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
This amended standard is not relevant, as the Group is not a first-time adopter and consequently did not have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities The amendment requires disclosure of information about rights of offset and related arrangements e. g. collateral posting requirements for financial instruments under an enforceable master netting agreement or similar agreement.
The amendments became effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013 with retrospective disclosure for all comparative periods.
The adoption of this amended standard did not have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IFRIC 20 Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine The new interpretation covers the accounting for the necessary removal of mine waste materials in order to gain access to the mineral ore deposit during the production phase of a mine.
The interpretation provides guidance on the accounting and separation of the costs of stripping activities resulting in the production of inventory in the current period or improved access to further mineral ore deposits that will be mined in future periods.
The new interpretation applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The adoption of this new interpretation did not have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted The Group has elected not to early adopt the following revised and amended standards: IFRS 9 Financial instruments The standard has been issued as the IASB completes each phase of its project to replace IAS 39.
The first elements of IFRS 9 were issued in November 2009 and October 2010 to replace the parts of IAS 39 that relate to the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
In November 2013 an amendment was issued to address hedge accounting and to remove the previously determined effective date of 1 January 2015.
Instead, the IASB proposes to set the effective date of IFRS 9 when it completes the impairment phase of the project.
The Group will assess IFRS 9s full impact and will determine the date to adopt IFRS 9 once it is endorsed for use in the EU.
IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements The new standard provides additional guidance to assist in the determination of which entities are controlled and are required to be consolidated.
This standard replaces the portion of IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements that addresses the accounting for consolidated financial statements.
The IASB implementation date is for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 whereas the standard becomes mandatory in the EU only for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
The Group does not intend to take advantage of the possibility of an early adoption.
The impact on the accounting for the Groups associated company TIS Ruda will be assessed.
102 F I N AN C I AL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Note 3: New accounting policies continued IFRS 11 Joint arrangements The new standard replaces IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures and SIC 13 Jointly-controlled entities non-monetary contributions by venturers.
The standard defines contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement and the accounting for joint operations and joint ventures.
The Group does not intend to take advantage of the possibility of an early adoption and will review its arrangements in place in order to evaluate the potential impact.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of involvement with other entities The new standard covers the disclosures that were previously required in consolidated financial statements under IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements as well as those included in IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures and IAS 28 Investments in associates.
The Group does not intend to take advantage of the possibility of an early adoption, but expects that a number of additional disclosures will be required under the new standard.
IAS 19 Employee benefits defined benefit plans: employee contributions The amendment to the standard was issued in November 2013 and becomes effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2014.
The amendment provides guidance in respect of the accounting for employee contributions set out in the formal terms of a defined benefit plan.
IAS 32 Financial instruments: presentation offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities The amendments clarify existing application issues relating to the offset of financial assets and financial liabilities requirements.
The amendments are not effective until annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 with retrospective application.
No material effects on the Groups financial position and performance are expected from this amendment.
IAS 36 Impairment of assets recoverable amount disclosures The amendment to the standard was issued in May 2013 and becomes effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
The amendment removes the requirement to disclose recoverable amounts when there has been no impairment or reversal of impairment.
Further to that, the disclosure requirements have been aligned with those under US GAAP for impaired assets.
IFRIC 21 Levies The new interpretation clarifies when to recognise a liability for a levy imposed by governments including government agencies and similar bodies in accordance with laws and regulations.
The new interpretation applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
The interpretation has not yet been endorsed by the EU and the effective date is not yet known.
The Group is currently assessing the potential effect on the Groups accounting for production and similar taxes.
Income taxes in accordance with IAS 12, fines and other penalties and liabilities arising from trading schemes are not covered by this interpretation.
Note 4: Use of estimates and critical judgements The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.
These estimates are based on information available as at the date of authorising the consolidated financial statements for issue.
Actual results, therefore, could differ from those estimates.
In particular, information about significant areas of estimation, uncertainty and critical judgements made by management in preparing the consolidated financial information are described in the following notes: Impairment testing The determination of fair value and value-in-use requires management to make estimates and assumptions about expected production and sales volumes, commodity prices considering current and historical prices, price trends and related factors, reserves, operating costs, closure and rehabilitation costs and future capital expenditure.
These estimates and assumptions are subject to risk and uncertainty: hence there is a possibility that changes in circumstances will alter these projections, which may impact the recoverable amount of the assets.
In such circumstances, some or all of the carrying value of the assets may be impaired and the impairment would be charged against the income statement.
The total of property, plant and equipment amounted to US$1,533,819 thousand as of 31 December 2013 2012: US$1,347,563 thousand.
See also note 18 for further information.
103 F I N AN C IAL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Note 4: Use of estimates and critical judgements continued As outlined in note 19 the impairment testing of goodwill is based on significant judgements and assumptions made by management when performing the annual impairment testing of these non-current assets.
Changes to be made to these assumptions may alter the results of the impairment testing, the impairment charges recorded in profit or loss and the resulting carrying values of the non-current assets tested.
The carrying amount of the goodwill amounted to US$98,415 thousand as of 31 December 2013 2012: US$98,413 thousand.
Related disclosures are also made in note 19.
Capitalised stripping costs Overburden and other mine waste materials have to be removed prior to the production of the mine in order to gain access to the iron ore body.
These activities are referred to as pre-production stripping costs and are capitalised under assets under construction.
The pre-production stripping costs are capitalised based on calculations which require the use of judgement and estimates in terms of estimated tonnage of overburden and waste material to be removed during the lifetime of the mine and the expected recoverable reserves that can be extracted.
The change of the mine plan life and design in the future may result in changes to the expected stripping ratio waste to mineral reserves ratio and require adjustment of the capitalised pre-production stripping costs.
Production stripping costs are capitalised when the stripping activities in the production phase of a mine result in improved access to components of the ore body.
An important area of judgement is the distinction between the pre-production and production phase of a mine together with the identification of the components of the ore body and the allocation of the production stripping costs to the components of the ore body or the inventory produced.
At 31 December 2013, the carrying amount of capitalised pre-production stripping costs included in assets under construction amounted to US$77,380 thousand 2012: US$36,794 thousand.
No production stripping costs are capitalised as at this date 2012: nil.
Fair value of financial instruments Where the fair value of financial assets and liabilities recorded in the statement of financial position cannot be derived from active markets, they are determined using valuation techniques including discounted cash flow models and reference to recent transaction prices.
The inputs to these models are taken from observable markets where possible, but where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is required in establishing fair values.
The judgements include considerations of inputs such as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility.
Changes in assumptions about these factors could affect the reported fair value of financial instruments.
A judgement was made by management that an investment made during the financial year 2013 is fair valued at the recent transaction price totalling US$82,382 thousand 2012: nil.
Detailed information on the carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities is given in note 37.
Taxes recoverable Within Ukraine, the Group has limited domestic sales and exports the majority of its products so that VAT paid on purchases of goods and capital equipment cannot be fully offset from VAT on domestic sales and the Group relies on refunds to be made by the Ukrainian government tax authority.
Since the financial year 2010, refunds have not been made on time by the Ukrainian government tax authority and the gross recoverable balance increased to US$318,213 thousand as of 31 December 2013 2012: US$301,535 thousand.
Despite the fact that the vast majority of this balance is due for immediate repayment, there is a risk that a large portion will be recovered in 2014 through the issue of a financial instrument and another portion only after more than 12 months from the period end.
A provision of US$60,116 thousand has been recorded as of 31 December 2013 2012: US$20,000 thousand to reflect managements best estimate of the discount to be expected on the financial instrument at the point of time of its issue and the time value of money based on managements best estimate of the anticipated timing of refunds.
The issue of financial instrument and its discount as well as the exact timing of recovery of the other portion of the VAT receivable balance is subject to uncertainties and outside of managements control.
A change of the underlying assumptions and estimates may affect the balance of the recorded discount in future periods.
Additional disclosures are made in note26.
During the financial year 2013, VAT refunds were received against corporate profit tax prepayments.
As a result of such prepayments made, the balance of prepaid corporate profit tax increased from US$24,869 thousand to US$87,475 thousand as of 31 December 2013.
The Group is of the view that the prepaid corporate profit tax will be recovered in future periods.
However, the recovery depends on pellet prices in the global market, the agreement with the Ukrainian government tax authorities in the future and the development of foreign exchange rates which are outside of managements control.
See also notes 16 and 26 for further details.
Defined benefit pension liability The valuation for defined benefit superannuation schemes requires management to make judgements as to the nature of benefits provided by each scheme and thereby determine the classification of each scheme.
For defined benefit schemes, management is required to make annual estimates and assumptions about future returns on classes of scheme assets, future remuneration changes, employee attrition rates, administration costs, changes in benefits, inflation rates, exchange rates, life expectancy and expected remaining 104 F I N AN C I AL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Note 4: Use of estimates and critical judgements continued periods of service of employees.
In making these estimates and assumptions, management considers advice provided by external advisers, such as actuaries.
At 31 December 2013, the carrying amount of defined benefit pension liability was US$53,154 thousand 2012: US$50,195 thousand.
Detailed disclosure is made in note 31.
Provision for site restoration The Groups accounting policy for the recognition of site restoration provisions requires significant estimates and assumptions such as requirements of the relevant legal and regulatory framework, the magnitude of possible contamination, and the timing, extent and estimated future costs of required closure and rehabilitation activity.
These uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts currently provided.
At 31 December 2013, the carrying amount of the provision for site restoration amounted to US$2,871 thousand 2012: US$2,368 thousand.
See also note 32 for further information.
Deferred income tax The Groups accounting policy for taxation requires managements judgement in assessing whether deferred tax assets and certain deferred tax liabilities are recognised on the statement of financial position.
Deferred tax assets, including those arising from unrecouped tax losses, capital losses and temporary differences, are recognised only where it is considered more likely than not that they will be recovered, which is dependent on the expected generation of sufficient future taxable profits.
A deviation between expected and effective future taxable profits in the different local jurisdictions may have an adverse impact on the recognised deferred tax balances in the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
Assumptions about the generation of expected future taxable profits depend on managements estimates of future cash flows.
These depend on estimates of future production and sales volumes, commodity prices, reserves, operating costs, closure and rehabilitation costs, capital expenditure, dividends and other capital management transactions.
Judgements are also required about the application of income tax legislation.
These judgements and assumptions are subject to risk and uncertainty, hence there is a possibility that changes in circumstances will alter expectations, which may impact the amount of recognised deferred tax balances in the consolidated financial statement of the Group and the amounts of other tax losses and temporary differences not yet recognised.
In such circumstances, some, or all, of the carrying amount of recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities may require adjustment, resulting in a corresponding credit or charge to the income statement.
At 31 December 2013, the Groups consolidated financial statements showed deferred tax assets of US$37,612 thousand 2012: US$33,220 thousand and deferred tax liabilities of US$2,031 thousand 2012: US$2,581 thousand.
See also notes 3 and 22 for further information.
Note 5: Segment information The Group is managed as a single entity which produces, develops and markets its principal product, iron ore pellets, for sale to the metallurgical industry.
While the revenue generated by the Group is monitored at a more detailed level, there are no separate measures of profit reported to the Groups Chief Operating Decision-Maker CODM.
In accordance with IFRS 8 Operating segments, the Group presents its results in a single segment which are disclosed in the income statement for the Group.
Management monitors the operating result of the Group based on a number of measures including EBITDA, C1 costs and the net financial indebtedness.
EBITDA The Group presents EBITDA because it believes that EBITDA is a useful measure for evaluating its ability to generate cash and its operating performance.
The Groups full definition of EBITDA is disclosed in the Glossary on page 150.
Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.13 31.12.12 Profit before tax and finance 359,218 344,716 Write-down of VAT receivable 26 36,421 Write-offs and impairment losses 13 854 836 Share-based payments 38 1,266 1,608 Losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment 8,492 4,067 Depreciation and amortisation 99,645 54,169 EBITDA 505,896 405,396 As a result of the retrospective adoption of the amendments to IAS 19, the pension costs of the comparative period ended 31 December 2012 changed and had a positive effect of US$3,847 thousand on the previously disclosed EBITDA figures.
See note 3 for further details.
105 F I N AN C IAL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Note 5: Segment information continued C1 costs C1 costs represents the cash costs of production of iron pellets from own ore divided by production volume of own ore, and excludes non-cash costs such as depreciation, pension costs and inventory movements, costs of purchased ore and concentrate, and production cost of gravel.
Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Cost of sales pellet production 726,960 638,807 Depreciation and amortisation 78,690 39,290 Purchased concentrate and other items for resale 34,805 29,254 Inventory movements 25,476 9,029 Other non-C1 cost components 13,213 18,144 C1 cost 625,728 561,148 Own ore produced tonnes 10,465,606 9,408,662 C1 cash cost per tonne US$ 59.8 59.6 Net financial indebtedness Net financial indebtedness as defined by the Group comprises cash and cash equivalents, term deposits, interest-bearing loans and borrowings and amounts payable for equipment.
Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.13 31.12.12 Cash and cash equivalents 27 390,491 596,560 Current borrowings 29 101,043 26,846 Non-current borrowings 29 928,196 993,139 Net financial indebtedness 638,748 423,425 Disclosure of revenue and non-current assets The Group does not generate significant revenues from external customers attributable to the Companys country of domicile.
The information on the revenues from external customers attributed to the individual foreign countries is given in note 6.
The Group does not have any significant non-current assets that are located in the country of domicile of the Company.
The vast majority of the non-current assets are located in Ukraine.
Note 6: Revenue Revenue for the year ended 31 December 2013 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Revenue from sales of iron ore pellets and concentrate: Export 1,494,899 1,329,728 Ukraine 331 Total revenue from sale of iron ore pellets and concentrate 1,494,899 1,330,059 Revenue from logistics and bunker business 76,321 81,845 Revenue from services provided 1,155 3,202 Revenue from other sales 9,010 8,924 Total revenue 1,581,385 1,424,030 106 F I N AN C I AL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Note 6: Revenue continued Export sales of iron ore pellets and concentrate by geographical destination were as follows: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 China 435,471 529,664 Austria 381,675 339,725 Turkey 184,234 73,180 Japan 130,429 33,389 Slovakia 127,029 141,765 Czech Republic 123,600 112,623 Germany 80,814 40,486 Serbia 31,647 19,723 India 23,068 Russia 8,875 Romania 5,167 Hungary 2,063 Total exports 1,494,899 1,329,728 During the year ended 31 December 2013 sales made to three customers accounted for 47.2% of the revenues from export sales of ore pellets 2012:44.7%.
Sales to customers that individually represented more than 10% of total sales in either current or prior year are as follows: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Customer A 381,675 339,725 Customer B 184,234 73,180 Customer C 127,029 141,765 Note 7: Cost of sales Cost of sales for the year ended 31 December 2013 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Materials 107,530 89,296 Purchased concentrate and other items for resale 34,805 29,254 Electricity 158,849 141,939 Personnel costs 66,194 69,092 Spare parts and consumables 15,921 26,563 Depreciation and amortisation 78,690 39,290 Fuel 74,653 56,038 Gas 82,028 79,082 Repairs and maintenance 72,299 78,022 Royalties and levies 23,162 12,375 Cost of sales from logistics business 16,531 22,342 Bunker fuel 29,731 29,580 Inventory movements 25,476 9,028 Other 38,304 26,884 Total cost of sales 773,221 690,729 Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Cost of sales pellet production 726,960 638,807 Cost of sales logistics and bunker business 46,261 51,922 Total cost of sales 773,221 690,729 107 F I N AN C IAL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Note 8: Selling and distribution expenses Selling and distribution expenses for the year ended 31 December 2013 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 International freight for pellets 114,366 113,538 Railway transportation 108,159 93,442 Port charges 31,084 31,891 Other pellet transportation costs 13,121 18,611 Costs of logistics business 32,991 27,495 Advertising 12,192 9,643 Depreciation 14,135 9,805 Other 9,670 7,539 Total selling and distribution expenses 335,718 311,964 Note 9: General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses for the year ended 31 December 2013 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Personnel costs 31,972 30,569 Buildings and maintenance 2,571 2,597 Taxes other than income tax and other charges 184 1,465 Professional fees 6,715 4,699 Depreciation and amortisation 4,022 4,636 Communication 1,328 1,144 Vehicle maintenance and fuel 1,584 2,033 Repairs 982 1,542 Audit and non-audit fees 2,506 2,062 Security 497 2,296 Other 2,478 3,286 Total general and administrative expenses 54,839 56,329 Auditor remuneration Auditor remuneration paid in respect of the audit of the financial statements of the Group and its subsidiary companies and for the provision of other services not in connection with the audit is disclosed below: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Audit services Ferrexpo plc Annual Report 1,252 823 Subsidiary entities 354 766 Total audit services 1,606 1,589 Non-audit services Tax advisory 125 23 Assurance related services 708 203 Other services 67 247 Total non-audit services 900 473 Total auditor remuneration 2,506 2,062 Assurance related services include fees paid for services provided in relation to raising of new debt for the Group.
108 F I N AN C I AL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Note 10: Other income Other income for the year ended 31 December 2013 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Sale of surplus maintenance spares 1,276 Lease income 942 3,050 Other income 5,720 7,021 Total other income 6,662 11,347 Note 11: Other expenses Other expenses for the year ended 31 December 2013 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Community support donations 10,116 20,810 Movements in allowance for doubtful receivables and prepayments made 661 721 Research 429 680 Other personnel costs 2,469 2,339 Other 9,782 5,611 Total other expenses 23,457 30,161 Note 12: Foreign exchange gains and losses Foreign exchange gains and losses for the year ended 31 December 2013 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Operating foreign exchange gains Revaluation of trade receivables 1 7 Revaluation of trade payables 30 23 Revaluation of cash and cash equivalents 512 339 Other 79 284 Total operating foreign exchange gains 622 653 Non-operating foreign exchange gains Revaluation of interest-bearing loans 2,892 1,986 Conversion of cash and cash equivalents 7,329 5,046 Other 466 410 Total non-operating foreign exchange gains 9,755 6,622 The non-operating foreign exchange gains in 2013 relates to income received from the conversion of US Dollars for the settlement of liabilities denominated in Ukrainian Hryvnia at an exchange rate higher than the one applicable upon initial recognition.
Note 13: Write-offs and impairment losses Impairment losses relate to adjustments made against the carrying value of assets where this is higher than the recoverable amount.
Write-offs and impairment losses for the year ended 31 December 2013 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.13 31.12.12 Write-off of inventories 528 215 Write-off of property, plant and equipment 326 191 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 20 430 Total write-offs and impairment losses 854 836 109 F I N AN C IAL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Note 14: Investments in associates As at 31 December 2013 investments in associates comprised: As at As at Country of Ownership 31.12.13 31.12.12 Principal activity incorporation % US$000 US$000 1 TIS Ruda Port development Ukraine 48.6 20,546 16,995 For the year ended 31 December 2013 the summarised financial information for the associate was as follows: Total assets Total liabilities Revenue Net profit As at As at As at As at Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 31.12.13 31.12.12 31.12.13 31.12.12 31.12.13 31.12.12 1 TIS Ruda 27,503 20,500 1,740 2,498 23,335 22,401 7,116 5,555 1 Based on preliminary and unaudited financial information.
The information above is for 100% of the associate named and not as a percentage based on Groups ownership.
The movement in the investment in the year represents the Groups share of profit of US$3,551 thousand in TIS Ruda 2012: US$2,772 thousand.
During the comparative period ended 31 December 2012, TIS Ruda paid a dividend amounting to US$4,963 thousand.
No dividend was paid during the financial year 2013 to the Group.
TIS Ruda operates a port on the Black Sea which the Group uses as part of its distribution channel.
Note 15: Finance income and expense Finance income and expense for the year ended 31 December 2013 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Finance income Interest income 2,062 2,454 Other finance revenue 310 144 Total finance income 2,372 2,598 Finance expense Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 53,340 54,749 Effect from capitalised borrowing costs 8,966 1,508 Interest on defined benefit plans 5,487 6,933 Bank charges 10,976 6,880 Other finance costs 5,116 21,149 Total finance expenses 65,953 88,203 Net finance expense 63,581 85,605 Bank charges include arrangement fees charged in relation to the Groups major bank debt facility.
Other finance costs include the effect from the increase of the recorded discount of US$3,695 thousand 2012: US$20,000 thousand to reflect the time value of money on the outstanding VAT receivable balances in Ukraine that are expected to be recovered after more than one year of the period end.
Further information is provided in note 26.
110 F I N AN C I AL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Note 16: Income tax expense The income tax expense for the year ended 31 December 2013 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.13 31.12.12 Current income tax Current income tax charge 45,878 48,797 Amounts related to previous years 684 2,929 Total current income tax 46,562 51,726 Deferred income tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 7,266 12,053 Effect from changes in tax laws and rates 2,312 7,462 Total deferred income tax 22 4,954 4,591 Total income tax expense 41,608 47,135 Other comprehensive income contained taxes on the following items charged or credited to it for the year ended 31 December 2013: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Exchange differences arising on hedging of foreign operations 32 Net losses on available-for-sale investments 30 62 Remeasurement gains on defined pension liability 58 3,404 Total income taxes charged to other comprehensive income 28 3,310 A breakdown of the deferred tax balances is contained in note 22.
The effective income tax rate differs from the corporate income tax rates.
The weighted average statutory rate was 8.3% for 2013 2012: 9.3%.
This is calculated as the average of the statutory tax rates applicable in the countries in which the Group operates, weighted by the profits and losses before tax of the subsidiaries in the respective countries, as included in the consolidated financial information.
The decrease is a result of the reduction of the statutory tax rate in Ukraine and the change in the profit mix between the different local jurisdictions.
A reconciliation between the income tax charged in the accompanying financial information and income before taxes multiplied by the weighted average statutory tax rate for the year ended 31 December 2013 is as follows: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Profit before tax 305,392 265,733 Notional tax computed at the weighted average statutory tax rate of 8.3% 2012: 9.3% 25,329 24,770 Derecognition of deferred tax asset 101 264 Effect from changes in local tax rates 2,312 7,462 Effect from utilisation of non-recognised deferred tax assets 94 318 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 8,485 8,818 Tax exempted income 1,396 422 Non-recognition of deferred taxes on current year losses 4,084 3,684 Tax related to prior years 2,011 2,929 Other 588 52 Total income tax expense 41,608 47,135 111 F I N AN C IAL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Note 17: Earnings per share and dividends paid and proposed Basic earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders of Ferrexpo plc by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares.
Year ended Year ended 31.12.13 31.12.12 Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders: Basic earnings per share US cents 44.76 37.14 Diluted earnings per share US cents 44.69 37.08 The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data: Year ended Year ended Thousand 31.12.13 31.12.12 Weighted average number of shares Basic number of Ordinary Shares outstanding 585,294 585,060 Effect of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares 926 973 Diluted number of Ordinary Shares outstanding 586,220 586,033 The basic number of Ordinary Shares is calculated by reducing the total number of Ordinary Shares in issue by the weighted average shares held in treasury and employee benefit trust reserve refer to note 28.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue on the assumption of conversion of all potentially dilutive Ordinary Shares.
Once production commences, stripping costs are transferred to mining assets.
The accounting policy for mine stripping costs is outlined in note 2.
Property, plant and equipment includes capitalised borrowing costs on qualifying assets of US$8,966 thousand 2012: US$1,508 thousand.
The capitalised borrowing costs on general borrowings were determined based on the capitalisation rate of 5.8% 2012: 5.8%, which is the average effective interest rate on general borrowings during the period.
The Group has no specific borrowings in relation to qualifying assets during either reporting period.
The carrying value of equipment held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts at 31 December 2013 was US$25,544 thousand 2012: US$18,549 thousand.
During the comparative period ended 31 December 2012, the Group entered into sale and lease-back transactions for rail cars and mining equipment, which were considered to be finance leases.
No gain or loss was realised on the sale of the assets subject to these finance leases.
Leased assets and assets under hire purchase contracts are pledged as security for the related finance leases and hire purchase liabilities.
US$227,460 thousand of property, plant and equipment have been pledged as security for liabilities 2012: US$220,053 thousand.
The gross value of fully depreciated property, plant and equipment that is still in use is US$47,992 thousand 2012: US$45,994 thousand.
113 F I N AN C IAL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Note 19: Goodwill and other intangible assets As at 31 December 2013 goodwill and other intangible assets comprised: Other Exploration intangible US$000 Goodwill and evaluation assets Total Cost: At 1 January 2012 98,453 6,654 105,107 Additions 3,607 6,304 9,911 Disposals 53 53 Translation differences 40 51 11 At 31 December 2012 98,413 3,607 12,956 114,976 Additions 5,562 1,706 7,268 Disposals 111 111 Translation differences 2 122 124 At 31 December 2013 98,415 9,169 14,673 122,257 Accumulated amortisation and impairment: At 1 January 2012 1,867 1,867 Amortisation charge 980 980 Disposals 53 53 Translation differences 11 11 At 31 December 2012 2,805 2,805 Amortisation charge 1,196 1,226 2,422 Disposals 111 111 Translation differences 55 55 At 31 December 2013 1,196 3,975 5,171 Net book value at: 31 December 2012 98,413 3,607 10,151 112,171 31 December 2013 98,415 7,973 10,698 117,086 The goodwill acquired through business combinations in previous periods has been allocated for impairment purposes to one cashgenerating unit, as the Group only has one operating segment, being the production and sale of iron ore.
This represents the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Goodwill from business combinations is not amortised, but reviewed for impairment at every balance sheet date and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Impairment testing was performed at 31 December 2013 based on a value-in-use calculation using cash flow projections over the remaining estimated life of the  and Lavrikovskoye mine GPL, which is expected to expire in 2038 according to the current approved mine plan.
The estimated production volumes are based on this mine plan and do not take into account the effects of expected future mine life extension programmes.
The cash flow projection is based on the financial budget covering the next five years and approved by senior management.
The production capacity remains at a fixed level until full capacity is reached and therefore no perpetual growth rate is applied for the cash flow projections beyond the budgeted four years.
The major component of other intangible assets comprises mining licences and purchased software.
114 F I N AN C I AL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Note 19: Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Key assumptions The key assumptions are: Estimates assumptions Basis Future production: Proved and probable reserves and resource estimates Commodity prices: Contract prices and longer-term price estimates Cost of raw materials and other production distribution costs: Expected future costs Exchange rates: Current market exchange rates Discount rates: Cost of capital risk adjusted for the resource concerned Cash flows are projected based on managements expectations regarding the development of the iron ore and steel market and the cost of producing and distributing the pellets.
The Group takes into account two key assumptions, selling price and total production costs.
Within this, both macro and local factors which influence these are considered.
In determining the future long-term selling price, the Group takes into account external and internal analysis of the longer-term and shorter-term supply and demand dynamics in the local region and throughout the world along with costs of production of competitors and the marginal cost of incremental production in a particular market.
The Group considers local supply demand balances affecting its major customers and the effects this could have on the longer-term price.
The assumptions for iron ore prices ranged from US$90 per tonne to US$120 per tonne of Fe 62% fines CFR North China 2012: US$85 per tonne to US$128 per tonne.
Cost of production and shipping is considered taking into account local inflationary pressures, major exchange rate developments between local currency and the US Dollar, and the longer-term and shorter-term trends in energy supply and demand and the effect on costs along with the expected movements in steel-related commodity prices which affect the cost of certain production inputs.
For the purpose of the goodwill impairment test, the future cash flows were discounted using the real pre-tax discount rate of 10% 2012: 10% per annum.
These rates reflect the time value of money and risk associated with the asset, and is in line with the rates used by competitors with a similar background.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions Management believes that due to the high value of the projects and resulting reserve base no reasonable change in the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the unit to materially exceed its value-in-use.
Note 20: Available-for-sale financial assets As at 31 December 2013 available-for-sale financial assets comprised: Ownership Carrying value As at As at As at As at US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 31.12.13 31.12.12 Non-current Investments available-for-sale equity investments: Ferrous Resources 15.51% 82,382 PJSC Stakhanov Railcar Company 1.10% 1.10% 396 534 Vostok Ruda LLC 1.10% 1.10% LLC Atol 9.95% 9.95% CJSC AMA 9.00% 9.00% CJSC Amtek 9.00% 9.00% Total non-current 82,778 534 The Group acquired between January and September 2013 a 15.5% strategic stake in Ferrous Resources, a producing iron ore company operating in the iron ore quadrangle of the Minas Gerais region of Brazil.
The other investments listed above relate to companies incorporated in Ukraine.
115 F I N AN C IAL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Note 20: Available-for-sale financial assets continued Details in respect of the valuation of these available-for-sale financial assets are provided in note 37.
See also notes 13 and 34 for further details.
Impairment testing Ferrous Resources The investment in Ferrous Resources is reviewed for indication of impairment at least at the end of each reporting period that is published.
Considering the short period of time since the acquisition of Ferrous Resources and taking into account the current market situation, there are no indications of an impairment as of 31 December 2013.
PJSC Stakhanov Railcar Company The value of PJSC Stakhanov Railcar Company decreased due to a lower quoted market price for its shares on the Ukrainian stock exchange PFTS as of 31 December 2013.
The decrease of the fair value in the amount of US$138 thousand 2012: decrease of US$326 thousand has been recorded against the net unrealised gains reserve.
The decrease of the fair value is not considered to be a significant or prolonged decline and therefore not an objective evidence of impairment.
Vostok Ruda LLC The investment in Vostok Ruda LLC was fully impaired during the financial year 2012.
There are no indications at 31 December 2013 that could require a reversal of the previously booked impairment losses.
Ferrexpo Petroleum The unquoted equity investments in LLC Atol, CJSC AMA and CJSC Amtek, companies engaged in the exploration and development of oil and gas fields in the Poltava Region of Ukraine, were fully impaired during previous financial years based on a discounted cash flow projection.
The key assumptions used in this calculation were gas condensate prices, gas oil condensate conversion rates, production volumes, production costs, tax rates, projected capital expenditure, the Ukrainian Hryvnia to US Dollar exchange rate and the discount rate.
There are no indications at 31 December 2013 that require a reversal of any impairment losses booked in previous periods.
Note 21: Other non-current assets As at 31 December 2013 other non-current assets comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Prepayments for property, plant and equipment 19,185 35,711 Prepaid bank arrangement fees 7,978 3,760 Other non-current assets 7,412 2,339 Total other non-current assets 34,575 41,810 116 F I N AN C I AL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Note 22: Deferred income tax Deferred income tax assets and liabilities at 31 December 2013 relate to the following: Consolidated statement of financial position Consolidated income statement As at As at Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 31.12.13 31.12.12 Trade and other receivables 51 496 445 423 Inventories 1,311 229 1,082 77 Accrued income and prepaid expenses 12 12 12 Property, plant and equipment 26,993 23,091 3,881 5,880 Intangible assets 187 53 134 59 IPO costs netted against share premium 33 33 194 Tax losses recognised 1,291 1,060 231 962 Other financial assets 174 56 118 20 Trade and other payables 26 1 25 1 Accrued expenses 1,658 1,585 74 100 Defined benefit pension liability 8,451 7,856 595 802 Provision for site restoration 372 353 19 104 Other financial liabilities 9 9 1 Other items 2 2 Total deferred tax assets change 40,514 34,836 5,658 5,919 Thereof netted against deferred tax liabilities 2,902 1,616 Total deferred tax assets as per the statement of financial position 37,612 33,220 Trade and other receivables 703 759 55 370 Inventories 264 267 4 267 Accrued income and prepaid expenses 745 159 587 59 Property, plant and equipment 2,069 1,678 391 726 Other non-current assets 866 615 251 615 Other financial assets 171 185 14 71 Employee benefit trust 305 Trade and other payables 93 521 428 520 Accrued expenses 10 10 Lease obligations 12 1 11 7 Defined benefit pension liability 12 12 12 Total deferred tax liabilities change 4,933 4,197 737 1,328 Thereof netted against deferred tax assets 2,902 1,616 Total deferred tax liabilities as per the statement of financial position 2,031 2,581 Net deferred tax assets net change 35,581 30,639 4,921 4,591 As a result of the retrospective adoption of the amendments to IAS 19, deferred taxes on the defined benefit pension liability of the comparative period ended 31 December 2012 increased by US$4,089 thousand.
The movement in the deferred income tax balance is as follows: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Opening balance 30,639 29,397 Income statement credit 4,954 4,591 Charges booked outside of profit or loss 28 3,404 Foreign currency exchange rate adjustment 16 55 Closing balance 35,581 30,639 117 F I N AN C IAL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Note 22: Deferred income tax continued As at 31 December 2013, the Group had deductible temporary differences on available tax loss carry forwards in the amount of US$100,226 thousand 2012: US$80,582 thousand for which no deferred tax assets were recognised.
The vast majority of the available tax loss carry forwards relates to the acquired logistics business in Austria and Hungary during the financial year 2010.
Tax loss carry forwards in both tax jurisdictions do not expire.
Temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised amount to US$826,470 thousand 2012: US$660,683 thousand.
Note 23: Inventories As at 31 December 2013 inventories comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Raw materials and consumables 120,087 93,561 Finished ore pellets 33,969 28,142 Work in progress 25,206 5,178 Other 2,775 7,876 Provision for slow-moving and obsolete inventory items 1,174 646 Total inventories current 180,863 134,111 Raw materials and consumables 58,303 12,362 Total inventories non-current 58,303 12,362 Inventory is held at the lower of cost or net recoverable amount.
Inventories classified as non-current comprise ore stockpiles that are not planned to be processed within one year.
Note 24: Trade and other receivables At 31 December 2013 trade and other receivables comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Trade receivables 100,723 116,135 Other receivables 3,854 1,967 Allowance for doubtful receivables 2,079 1,549 Total trade and other receivables 102,498 116,553 Trade receivables at 31 December 2013 includes US$1,181 thousand 2012: US$826 thousand owed by related parties.
The detailed related party disclosures are made in note 34.
The movement in the provision for doubtful receivables during the period under review was: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Opening balance 1,549 1,484 Recognition 752 1,080 Reversal 222 1,015 Closing balance 2,079 1,549 The following table shows the Groups receivables at the reporting date that are subject to credit risk and the ageing and impairment profile thereon: Receivables Receivables past due but not impaired Receivables neither past As at 31.12.13 Gross past due and due nor Less than 45 to 90 Over 90 US$000 amount impaired impaired 45 days days days Trade receivables 100,723 1,767 92,969 2,210 887 2,890 Other receivables 3,854 312 3,275 19 22 226 118 F I N AN C I AL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Note 24: Trade and other receivables continued Receivables past due but not impaired Receivables Receivables neither past As at 31.12.12 Gross past due and due nor Less than 45 to 90 Over 90 US$000 amount impaired impaired 45 days days days Trade receivables 116,135 1,465 88,792 21,978 1,008 2,892 Other receivables 1,967 84 891 20 531 441 The Groups exposures to credit and currency risks are disclosed in note 37.
Note 25: Prepayments and other current assets As at 31 December 2013 prepayments and other current assets comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Prepayments to suppliers: Electricity and gas 5,009 4,094 Materials and spare parts 2,208 3,289 Services 4,990 4,588 Other prepayments 286 67 Prepaid bank arrangement fees 2,793 1,410 Accrued income 9,334 22,176 Other 453 844 Total prepayments and other current assets 25,073 36,468 Prepayments at 31 December 2013 include US$322 thousand 2012: US$1,482 thousand made to related parties.
Note 26: Taxes payable, recoverable and prepaid The income tax receivable balance as of 31 December 2013 is shown below: As at As at US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Opening balance 11,197 36,290 Income statement charge 46,562 51,727 Tax paid 108,321 99,771 Reclassification 1,876 Foreign exchange adjustment 89 557 Closing balance 74,921 11,197 Split by: As at As at US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Income tax receivable balance current 33,233 24,869 Income tax receivable balance non-current 54,242 Income tax payable balance 12,554 13,672 Net income tax receivable 74,921 11,197 As at 31 December 2013 taxes recoverable and prepaid comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 VAT receivable 182,628 186,900 Other taxes prepaid 235 346 Total taxes recoverable and prepaid current 182,863 187,246 VAT receivable 78,281 97,895 Total taxes recoverable and prepaid non-current 78,281 97,895 119 F I N AN C IAL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Note 26: Taxes payable, recoverable and prepaid continued The vast majority of the outstanding VAT receivable balance is related to Ukraine and a result of VAT paid on domestic Ukrainian purchases of goods, capital equipment and services and on the import of goods, capital equipment and services into Ukraine to the extent that this cannot be offset on VAT paid on domestic sales in Ukraine.
Ferrexpo currently has limited domestic sales and exports the majority of its products.
As a result, VAT has to be recovered from the government tax authority and Ferrexpo is reliant on the normal functioning of this system.
During the financial year 2013, the Group received VAT refunds in respect of 2012 and 2013 amounting to US$170,967 thousand and paid Ukrainian VAT amounting to US$219,024 thousand.
This was reduced by VAT incurred on domestic product sales of US$31,380 thousand.
As a result, the gross recoverable balance increased from US$301,536 thousand to US$318,213 thousand UAH2,543 million.
Management expects this amount to be fully recovered in local currency.
However, the exact timing of recovery and method of settlement is subject to uncertainties, along with the prevailing exchange rate to the US Dollar at the time of repayment.
In the past, VAT has been recovered in cash and by the issuance of domestic local currency bonds.
Alternative methods of settlement have been proposed, but not adopted, including offset of amounts recoverable against current and future corporate profit tax.
A financial loss could result, for example, from the issuance of bonds or treasury promissory notes which trade at a discount at the time of issue: continued late repayment as a result of government fiscal constraints diminishing the present value of the receivable: or the conversion to US Dollar of local currency received at a different exchange rate to that recorded at the time of payment: or adverse decision in the courts regarding VAT balances in dispute, which management believe is fully recoverable.
In October 2013, the cabinet of ministers of Ukraine confirmed that outstanding VAT liabilities incurred prior to 2013 will be settled with bonds or treasury promissory notes instead of cash repayment.
As of the date of the publication of these accounts no such financial instruments have been issued.
Management has assessed the considerable uncertainties regarding the method of repayment of VAT and uncertainties relating to the timing of recovery of the VAT due.
Currently the Group has amounts repayable in respect of 2013 under normal terms which is being recovered fully and promptly in the normal course of its business.
During the financial year 2013 this was in exchange for a 50% prepayment of corporation tax.
As a result of this, the prepaid balance of prepaid corporate profit tax increased from US$24,869 thousand to US$87,475 thousand as of 31 December 2013.
It is the managements view that this balance will be offset with future profits.
At the end of the reporting period, the Group also has US$101,977 thousand in the court system which management believes will be fully recovered.
The protracted procedures involved and the complexity of the system will, however, result in a delay in repayment and it is the best estimate of management that at the current time it will take two years before all the court processes are completed and payment in full will be received.
A discount of US$23,695 thousand 2012: US$20,000 thousand to reflect the time value of money during this period has been made and this asset has been disclosed net of provision as non-current.
The Group has US$145,685 thousand of VAT outstanding from the financial year 2012 and earlier which management believe will be recovered in the next year through the issue of financial instruments as has been the practice in the past.
There is no fully reliable way to estimate the ultimate financial recovery which can ultimately be at par value, however it is the best estimate of management, based on past practice, that the financial instruments would if issued trade at a discount of 25% for which a provision of US$36,421 thousand 2012: nil has been made as of 31 December 2013.
The total provision recorded in respect of the outstanding VAT receivable balances is US$60,116 thousand as of 31 December 2013 2012: US$20,000 thousand.
Further information on the Ukrainian VAT situation is provided in the Principal Risks section on page 29.
As at 31 December 2013 other taxes payable comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.13 31.12.121 Withholding tax 501 540 Environmental tax 3,225 496 Royalties 3,822 2,931 Source tax 116 10 VAT payable 1,734 1,697 Other taxes 2,571 2,691 Total taxes payable 11,969 8,365 120 F I N AN C I AL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Note 27: Cash and cash equivalents As at 31 December 2013 cash and cash equivalents comprised: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Cash at bank and on hand 355,364 304,994 Short-term deposit 35,127 291,566 Total cash and cash equivalents 390,491 596,560 The Groups exposure to liquidity, counterparty and interest rate risk as well as a sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities are disclosed in note 37.
See also note 34 for further information in respect of transactional banking arrangements.
Note 28: Share capital and reserves Number of US$000 shares Balance at 31 December 2013 and 2012 121,628 613,967,956 Share capital represents the nominal value on issue of the Companys equity share capital, comprising 0.10 Ordinary Shares.
The fully paid share capital of Ferrexpo plc at 31 December 2013 was 613,967,956 Ordinary Shares 2012: 613,967,956 at a par value of 0.10 paid for in cash, resulting in share capital of US$121,628 thousand 2012: US$121,628 thousand per the statement of financial position.
The closing balance as of 31 December 2013 and 2012 includes 25,343,814 shares which are held in treasury and 3,275,435 shares held in the employee benefit trust reserve 2012: 3,504,523 shares.
As at 31 December 2013 other reserves attributable to equity shareholders of Ferrexpo plc comprised: Net Treasury Employee unrealised Total Uniting of share benefit trust gains Translation other US$000 interest reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves 31,780 77,260 9,416 1,084 294,791 348,603 At 1 January 2012 Foreign currency translation differences 829 829 Loss on available-for-sale investments 326 326 Tax effect 62 32 94 Total comprehensive income for the period 264 797 1,061 Share-based payments 1,608 1,608 At 31 December 2012 31,780 77,260 7,808 820 295,588 348,056 Foreign currency translation differences 428 428 Loss on available-for-sale investments 138 138 Tax effect 30 30 Total comprehensive income for the period 108 428 536 Share-based payments 1,266 1,266 At 31 December 2013 31,780 77,260 6,542 712 296,016 347,326 Uniting of interest reserve The uniting of interest reserve represents the difference between the initial investment by Ferrexpo AG in OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining to gain control of the subsidiary in 2005 and the net assets acquired, which under the pooling of interests method of accounting are consolidated at their historic cost, less non-controlling interests.
Treasury share reserve During September 2008, Ferrexpo plc completed a buyback of 25,343,814 shares for a total cost of US$77,260 thousand.
These shares are currently held as treasury shares by the Group.
The Companies Act 2006 forbids the exercise of any rights including voting rights and the payment of dividends in respect of treasury shares.
121 F I N AN C IAL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Note 28: Share capital and reserves continued Employee benefit trust reserve This reserve represents the treasury shares held by Ferrexpo AG setting up an employee benefit trust reserve.
The reserve is used to satisfy future grants for senior management incentive schemes.
Net unrealised gains reserve This reserve records fair value changes on available-for-sale investments.
Translation reserve The translation reserve represents exchange differences arising on the translation of non-US Dollar e. g. Ukrainian Hryvnia functional currency operations within the Group into US Dollars.
Share premium Share premium represents the premium paid by subscribers for the share capital issues, net of costs directly attributable to the share issue.
Subsequent increases in the stake have been accounted for using the parent extension concept method of accounting as described in the accounting policy section of the financial statements note 2.
Note 29: Interest-bearing loans and borrowings This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings, which are measured at amortised cost.
All loans are in US Dollars.
For more information about the Groups exposure to interest rate, foreign currency and liquidity risk, see note 37.
As at As at US$000 Notes 31.12.13 31.12.12 Current Syndicated bank loans secured 37 70,000 Other bank loans secured 37 16,775 13,321 Obligations under finance leases 37 4,523 3,729 Interest accrued 37 9,745 9,796 Total current interest-bearing loans and borrowings 101,043 26,846 Non-current Eurobond issued 37 493,810 491,438 Syndicated bank loans secured 37 350,000 420,000 Other bank loans secured 37 66,129 62,232 Obligations under finance leases 37 18,257 19,469 Total non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings 928,196 993,139 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,029,239 1,019,985 As at 31 December 2013 the Group has a syndicated US$420 million revolving pre-export finance facility in place and a US$500 million Eurobond.
The revolving pre-export finance facility was drawn in full on 7 October 2011.
This finance facility is available for 60 months including a commitment amortisation over the final 24 months.
As at 31 December 2013 the major bank debt facility was guaranteed and secured as follows: Ferrexpo AG and Ferrexpo Middle East FZE assigned the rights to revenue from certain sales contracts: OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining assigned all of its rights of certain export contracts for the pellets sales to Ferrexpo AG and Ferrexpo Middle East FZE: and the Group pledged bank accounts of Ferrexpo AG and Ferrexpo Middle East FZE into which all proceeds from the sale of certain iron ore pellet contracts are received.
The unsecured US$500 million Eurobond was issued on 7 April 2011 and is due for repayment on 7 April 2016.
The bond has a 7.875% coupon and interest is payable on a semi-annual basis.
122 F I N AN C I AL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Note 29: Interest-bearing loans and borrowings continued On 2 September 2013 the Group secured an additional US$315 million revolving pre-export finance facility, which is undrawn as of 31 December 2013.
In November 2013, the facility was increased to US$350 million.
The new facility becomes effective when the Group declares the effective date within one year after the signing and matures four years after this date.
As at 31 December 2013 US$280 million from this new facility would have been available for draw down if the effective date had been declared.
The Group has no other committed credit lines as of 31 December 2013 2012: nil.
Note 30: Trade and other payables As at 31 December 2013 trade and other payables comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Materials and services 40,437 50,736 Payables for equipment 8,676 9,889 Dividends payable 86 87 Other 802 1,897 Total current trade and other payables 50,001 62,609 Trade and other payables at 31 December 2013 includes US$3,374 thousand 2012: US$1,816 thousand due to related parties see note 34.
The Groups exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 37.
Note 31: Defined benefit pension liability The Group operates defined benefit plans for qualifying employees of its subsidiaries in Ukraine, Switzerland and Austria.
The effects from the retrospective application of IAS 19 revised are disclosed in note 3.
Details of the plans in the different countries are provided below: Ukraine The Group makes defined contributions to the Ukrainian State Pension scheme at statutory rates based on gross salary payments for the employees of OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining and LLC Ferrexpo Yeristovo GOK.
Such expenses are charged to the income statement in the period the related salaries are earned.
The Group also has a legal obligation to compensate the Ukrainian State Pension Fund for additional pensions paid to certain categories of the current and former employees of the Group.
Costs relating to this plan are accrued using the projected unit credit method in respect of those employees entitled to such payments.
Additionally, the Group has a legal obligation to its employees in the form of a collective agreement to make a one-off payment on retirement to employees with a long-term of service: this has also been included in the provision.
All pension schemes in Ukraine are unfunded and the defined benefit pension liabilities are calculated by an independent actuary applying accepted actuarial techniques.
At 31 December 2013, this defined benefit plan covered 7,089 current employees 2012: 5,030 people.
There are 1,116 former employees currently in receipt of pensions 2012: 1,135 people.
Switzerland The employees of the Groups Swiss operation are covered under a collective pension plan multiemployer plan, which is governed in accordance with the requirements of Swiss law.
The funding, of which two-thirds is contributed by the employer and one-third by the employees, is based on the regulations of the pension scheme and Swiss law.
The assets of the pension scheme are held separately from those of the Group and are invested with an insurance company.
The accumulated capital of the employees is subject to interests determined by the local legislation and defined in the regulations of the pension scheme.
On retirement, employees are entitled to receive either a lump sum or an annual proportion of their accumulated capital as a pension underpinned by certain guarantees.
The Group, and in certain cases the employees, makes contributions to the pension scheme as a percentage of the insured salaries and depending on the age of the employees.
The pension scheme in Switzerland is funded and covered 19 people as at 31 December 2013 2012: 20 people.
The annual pension costs and the defined benefit obligation as well as the fair value of the plan assets are assessed annually by an independent professionally qualified actuary.
123 F I N AN C IAL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Note 31: Defined benefit pension liability continued Austria The Group has an unfunded retirement benefit obligation covering the Austrian employees of Helogistics.
All payments under the scheme are made by the employer as a lump sum in cases of retirement, occupational disability and death in service or redundancy.
The amount payable is dependent on the years of service up to a maximum of a full annual salary.
The annual costs relating to this plan are accrued using the projected unit credit method.
The annual costs and the defined benefit obligation are assessed annually by an independent professionally qualified actuary.
At 31 December 2013, one current employee 2012: three employees is covered by this pension scheme.
The principal assumptions used in determining the defined benefit obligation are shown below: Year ended 31.12.13 Year ended 31.12.12 Ukrainian Swiss Austrian Ukrainian Swiss Austrian scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme Discount rate 12.90% 2.20% 3.50% 11.90% 1.90% 3.50% Retail price inflation 4.44% 1.25% 2.50% 4.70% 1.25% 2.50% Expected future salary increase 4.55% 3.00% 2.50% 5.28% 3.00% 2.50% Expected future benefit increase 4.44% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Female life expectancy years 76.1 86.0 n a 74.5 86.0 n a Male life expectancy years 66.5 82.9 n a 63.5 82.9 n a As a result of the retrospective adoption of the amendments to IAS 19, the defined benefit pension obligation and costs for the comparative period ended 31 December 2012 changed.
Details in respect of the effects of the adoption are disclosed in note 3.
Year ended 31.12.13 Year ended 31.12.12 Ukrainian Swiss Austrian Ukrainian Swiss Austrian US$000 scheme scheme scheme Total scheme scheme scheme Total Present value of funded defined benefit obligation 4,017 4,017 4,050 4,050 Fair value of plan assets 2,806 2,806 2,473 2,473 Funded status 1,211 1,211 1,577 1,577 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligation 51,876 67 51,943 48,509 109 48,618 Defined benefit pension liability 51,876 1,211 67 53,154 48,509 1,577 109 50,195 124 F I N AN C I AL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Note 31: Defined benefit pension liability continued Amounts recognised in profit or loss or other comprehensive income are as follows: Year ended 31.12.13 Year ended 31.12.12 Ukrainian Swiss Austrian Ukrainian Swiss Austrian US$000 scheme scheme scheme Total scheme scheme scheme Total Defined benefit cost charged to profit or loss: Current service cost 2,640 485 1 3,126 4,353 464 9 4,826 Termination benefits 1,022 1,022 Interest cost on defined benefit obligation 5,494 71 3 5,568 6,731 79 7 6,817 Interest income on plan assets 48 48 54 54 Administration cost 9 9 6 6 Other 1 1 60 60 Total defined benefit cost charged to profit or loss 8,134 517 3 8,654 11,084 495 978 12,557 Remeasurement gains losses in OCI: Remeasurement from demographic assumptions 3 3 Remeasurement from financial assumptions 5,205 159 5,046 22,104 392 12 21,700 Experience adjustment 5,255 171 1 5,427 624 175 66 515 Return on plan assets 120 120 1 1 Total remeasurement gains losses in other comprehensive income 47 450 1 498 21,480 218 78 21,184 Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: Year ended 31.12.13 Year ended 31.12.12 Ukrainian Swiss Austrian Ukrainian Swiss Austrian US$000 scheme scheme scheme Total scheme scheme scheme Total Opening defined benefit obligation 48,509 4,050 109 52,668 63,452 3,551 168 67,171 Current service cost 2,640 485 1 3,126 4,353 464 9 4,826 Interest cost on defined benefit obligation 5,494 71 3 5,568 6,731 79 7 6,817 Termination benefits 1,022 1,022 Remeasurement gains losses 47 330 2 379 21,480 217 18 21,185 Translation differences 1 100 3 104 21 126 45 Contributions paid by employer 4,721 47 4,768 4,526 1,115 5,641 Contributions paid by employee 127 127 135 135 Benefits paid through pension assets 486 486 522 522 Closing defined benefit obligation 51,876 4,017 67 55,960 48,509 4,050 109 52,668 Thereof for active employees 30,731 4,017 67 34,815 29,482 4,050 109 33,641 Thereof for vested terminations 7,522 7,522 7,015 7,015 Thereof for pensioners 13,623 13,623 12,012 12,012 The duration of the defined benefit obligation for the different schemes as at 31 December 2013 is 12.9 years Ukraine, 20.0 years Switzerland and 12.5 years Austria.
Contributions to the defined benefit plans in the next financial year are expected to be US$5,007 thousand for the schemes in Ukraine and US$401 thousand in Switzerland.
There is no contribution expected for the scheme in Austria.
125 F I N AN C IAL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Note 31: Defined benefit pension liability continued Changes in the fair values of the plan assets are as follows: Year ended 31.12.13 Year ended 31.12.12 Ukrainian Swiss Austrian Ukrainian Swiss Austrian US$000 scheme scheme scheme Total scheme scheme scheme Total Opening fair value of plan assets 2,473 2,473 2,173 2,173 Interest income 48 48 54 54 Contributions paid by employer 458 458 564 564 Contributions paid by employee 127 127 135 135 Benefits paid through pension assets 486 486 522 522 Return on plan assets 120 120 1 1 Administration cost 9 9 6 6 Translation differences 75 75 76 76 Closing fair value of plan assets 2,806 2,806 2,473 2,473 The asset allocation of the plan assets of the Swiss scheme is as follows: As at As at 31.12.13 As at 31.12.12 As at US$000 % 31.12.13 % 31.12.12 Scheme assets at fair value Equities 21.1 592 24.4 603 Bonds 44.0 1,235 42.6 1,053 Properties 10.3 289 10.5 260 Other 24.6 690 22.5 557 Fair value of scheme assets 100.0 2,806 100.0 2,473 Reasonable changes of the significant assumptions would have the following effects on the defined benefit obligation: Year ended 31.12.13 Ukrainian Swiss Austrian Ukrainian Swiss Austrian US$000 scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme Increase by Decrease by 1.00% or 1.00% or 1.00% or 1.00% or 1.00% or 1.00% or Change 1 year 1 year 1 year 1 year 1 year 1 year Discount rate % 3,754 607 7 4,283 831 11 Future salary increases % 1,980 121 10 1,882 112 7 Indexation of pension % 1,350 455 n a 1,334 n a Life expectancy years 698 47 n a 824 46 n a Year ended 31.12.12 Ukrainian Swiss Austrian Ukrainian Swiss Austrian US$000 scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme Increase by Decrease by Change 1.00% 0.25% 0.25% 1.00% 0.25% 0.25% Discount rate % 3,668 204 3 4,216 220 3 126 F I N AN C I AL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Note 31: Defined benefit pension liability continued For the presentation of the effects of the changes of the significant assumptions shown on the previous page, the present value of the defined benefit obligation has been calculated based on the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period, which is the same as the one applied for the calculation of the defined benefit obligation recognised in the statement of financial position as at 31December 2013.
The methods and assumptions used for the sensitivity analysis for the prior year are unchanged.
Note 32: Provision for site restoration The costs of restoration of the different deposits in the Groups open pit mines are based on amounts determined by an independent and credited institute taking into account the codes of practice and laws applicable in Ukraine.
The useful lives of the different pits and mines are determined by the same institute based on expected annual stripping and production volumes having taken into account the expected timing and effect of future mine-life extension programmes.
It is expected that the restoration works of the GPL mine will start after the years 2020, 2038 and 2055 depending on the different areas within the mine.
The first restoration work of the Yeristovo mine is expected to start after 2035.
The provision represents the discounted value of the estimated costs of decommissioning and restoring the mines at the dates when the deposits are expected to be depleted in the relevant areas within the mine.
The present value of the provision has been calculated using a nominal pre-tax discount rate of 12.3% 2012: 11.7% and the costs are expected to be incurred once the restoration works begin in the different areas of the mines.
Uncertainties in estimating the provision include potential changes in regulatory requirements, decommissioning and reclamation alternatives and the discount and inflation rates to be used in the calculations.
As at As at US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Opening balance 2,368 3,015 Unwind of the discount 301 289 Arising during the year 202 935 Translation adjustments 1 Closing balance 2,871 2,368 Note 33: Accrued liabilities and deferred income As at 31 December 2013 accrued liabilities and deferred income comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Accrued expenses 10,851 6,249 Accrued employee costs 21,164 19,726 Advances from customers 1,271 23,938 Deferred income 2,222 1,372 Total accrued liabilities and deferred income 35,508 51,285 Note 34: Related party disclosure During the periods presented, the Group entered into arms length transactions with entities under the common control of the majority owner of the Group, Kostyantin Zhevago, with associated companies and with other related parties.
Management considers that the Group has appropriate procedures in place to identify, control and properly disclose transactions with the related parties.
Entities under common control are those under the control of Kostyantin Zhevago.
Associated companies refers to TIS Ruda LLC, in which the Group holds an interest of 48.6%.
This is the only associated company of the Group.
Other related parties are principally those entities controlled partially by Anatoly Trefilov.
Anatoly Trefilov is a member of the supervisory board of OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining.
127 F I N AN C IAL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Note 34: Related party disclosure continued Related party transactions entered into by the Group during the periods presented are summarised in the following tables: Revenue, expenses, finance income and expense Year ended 31.12.13 Year ended 31.12.12 Entities Entities under Other under Other common Associated related common Associated related US$000 control companies parties control companies parties a Other sales 647 491 1,198 88 Total related party transactions within revenue 647 491 1,198 88 b Materials 13,897 43 5,984 24 c Purchased concentrate and other items for resale 7,053 21,948 d Spare parts and consumables 2,838 2 7,859 e Fuel 1,373 e Gas 33,581 9,646 Total related party transactions within cost of sales 57,369 45 46,810 24 f Selling and distribution expenses 11,183 22,582 8,335 9,377 20,493 8,367 g General and administration expenses 1,747 12 1,644 72 Total related party transactions within expenses 70,299 22,582 8,392 57,831 20,493 8,463 h Finance income 1,673 917 h Finance expenses 184 733 Net related party finance income expenses 1,489 184 Entities under common control The Group entered into various related party transactions with entities under common control.
A description of the most material transactions which are in aggregate over US$200 thousand in the current or comparative period is given below.
All transactions were carried out on an arms length basis in the normal course of business.
a Sales of power, steam and water and other materials to Kislorod PCC for US$149 thousand 2012: US$234 thousand and metal scrap to AutoKraZ Holding Co. for US$127 thousand 2012: US$106 thousand.
Income from premises lease to Kislorod PCC of US$238 thousand 2012: US$224 thousand and US$58 thousand 2012: US$58 thousand to Vorskla Steel Ltd. Revenue of US$3 thousand was received from Vorskla Steel Ltd. for the sale of sand and other materials 2012: US$448 thousand.
b Purchases of compressed air and oxygen and metal scrap from Kislorod PCC for US$5,988 thousand 2012: US$5,506 thousand : b Purchases of cast iron balls from AutoKraZ Holding Co. for US$6,865 thousand 2012: US$5,255 thousand : b Purchases of cast iron balls from OJSC Uzhgorodsky Turbogas for US$711 thousand 2012: nil : and b Purchases of ferromarganese from Raw and Refined Commodities AG for US$354 thousand 2012: US$347 thousand.
c Purchases of concentrate and other items for resale from Vostok Ruda Ltd. amounting to US$7,053 thousand 2012: US$21,948 thousand.
d Purchases of spare parts from CJSC Kyiv Shipbuilding and Ship Repair Plant KSRSSZ in the amount of US$864 thousand 2012: US$805 thousand : d Purchases of spare parts from OJSC Berdichev Machine-Building Plant Progress of US$45 thousand 2012: US$595 thousand : and d Purchases of spare parts from Valsa GTV of US$1,226 thousand 2012: US$736 thousand.
e Procurement of gas for US$33,581 thousand 2012: US$9,646 thousand from OJSC Ukrzakordongeologia.
No procurement of fuel from OJSC Ukrzakordongeologia during the financial year 2013 2012: US$1,373 thousand.
f Purchases of advertisement, marketing and general public relations services from FC Vorskla of US$11,000 thousand 2012: US$9,301 thousand.
g Insurance premiums of US$728 thousand 2012: US$686 thousand paid to ASK Omega for workmens insurance and other insurances: g Fees of US$373 thousand 2012: US$113 thousand paid to F&C Lex and Legal Partners for legal services.
Both companies were under the control of Kostyantin Zhevago until 30 June 2012.
All transactions taking place up to 30 June 2013, being one year after the change of the control, are considered to be related party transactions: and g Fees of US$433 thousand 2012: US$448 thousand paid to Bank Finance & Credit Bank F&C for bank services.
h Transactional banking services are provided to certain subsidiaries of the Group by Bank F&C.
Finance income and expense relate to these transactional banking services.
Further information is provided under transactional banking arrangements on page 129.
Associated companies The Group entered into related party transactions with its associated company TIS Ruda LLC, which were carried out on an arms length basis in the normal course of business for the members of the Group see note 1.
These are described below: f Purchases of logistics services in the amount of US$22,582 thousand 2012: US$20,493 thousand relating to port operations, including port charges, handling costs, agent commissions and storage costs.
128 F I N AN C I AL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Note 34: Related party disclosure continued Other related parties The Group entered into various transactions with related parties other than those under the control of the majority owner of the Group.
Descriptions of the material transactions are below: a Sales of material and services to Slavutich Ruda Ltd. for US$491 thousand 2012: US$88 thousand.
f Purchases of logistics management services from Slavutich Ruda Ltd. relating to customs clearance services and the coordination of rail transit.
Total billings amounted to US$8,335 thousand 2012: US$8,367 thousand.
Slavutich Ruda Ltd. earned commission income of US$979 thousand on these services 2012: US$906 thousand.
g Purchases of legal services from Kuoni Attorneys at Law Ltd. amounting to US$12 thousand 2012: US$72 thousand.
Purchases of property, plant and equipment The table below details the transactions of a capital nature which were undertaken between Group companies and entities under common control, associated companies and other related parties during the periods presented.
Year ended 31.12.13 Year ended 31.12.12 Entities Entities under Other under Other common Associated related common Associated related US$000 control companies parties control companies parties Purchases with independent fair and reasonable confirmation 2,659 Purchases with shareholder approval 18,141 55,026 Other purchases 3,741 1,044 i Total purchase of property, plant and equipment 21,882 58,729 i Effective 1 October 2012, the UK Listing Rules have been amended to require only independent fair and reasonable confirmation for transactions that are not in the ordinary course of business, irrespective of the nature of the transaction.
During the financial year 2013, the Group entered into various transactions with related parties totalling US$3,741 thousand.
These transactions were in the ordinary course of business and on an arms length basis and did not require independent fair and reasonable confirmation as a result of the amended UK Listing Rules becoming effective on 1 October 2012.
Individual transactions of a capital nature which exceeded US$200 thousand are listed below: In January 2013, the Group procured three railway platforms in the amount of US$218 thousand from PJSC Stakhanov Railcar Company.
In April 2013, the Group entered into a contract with OJSC Berdichev Machine-Building Plant Progress and OJSC Uzhgorodsky Turbogas for the production and supply of deslimers for a new floatation section in the amount of US$585 thousand.
In June and September 2013, the Group procured metal works from OJSC Berdichev Machine-Building Plant Progress in the amount of US$1,297 thousand and US$1,054 thousand in connection with the construction of a new crushing section.
In addition to the transactions above, the Group obtained on 24 May 2012 shareholder approval for an option to purchase up to 500 rail cars from PJSC Stakhanov Railcar Company between the date of the approval and 31 December 2014.
In February 2013, the Group exercised the right under this option to order 267 rail cars.
These rail cars, amounting to US$18,141 thousand, were delivered and taken into operation during the financial year 2013 and increased the total fleet of rail cars from 1,933 units to 2,200 units as of 31 December 2013.
In February 2014, the Group ordered another 300 rail cars from PJSC Stakhanov Railcar Company, of which 233 rail cars were under this authority.
These rail cars are expected to be delivered between February and June 2014.
During the financial year 2012, the Group entered into the following transactions with related parties: During the period from October to December 2012, the Group entered in various transactions with related parties totalling US$653 thousand.
These transactions were in the ordinary course of business and on an arms length basis and did not require independent fair and reasonable confirmation as result of the amended UK Listing Rules becoming effective on 1 October 2012.
In September 2012, the Group procured metal works from OJSC Berdichev Machine-Building Plant Progress in the amount of US$1,019 thousand in connection with the construction of the flotation equipment.
The transaction was subject to an independent fair and reasonable confirmation.
In July and August 2012, the Group entered in various smaller transactions with related parties totalling US$391 thousand.
No independent fair and reasonable confirmation was required as these transactions did not exceed the relevant aggregated threshold at the point of time of the transactions.
In July 2012, the Group procured design documentation services in the amount of US$194 thousand from OJSC DIOS in relation to replacement of mixers at the pellet plant complex and the construction of a dust aspiration system.
Deslimer equipment in the amount of US$668 thousand was procured from CJSC Kyiv Shipbuilding and Ship Repair Plant KSRSSZ and OJSC Berdichev Machine-Building Plant Progress for a beneficiation plant.
The transactions were subject to an independent fair and reasonable confirmation.
In March 2012, project management services in the amount of US$140 thousand were procured from Vorskla Steel Ltd. in connection with the construction of service facilities and technical design documentation amounting to US$618 thousand from OJSC DIOS related to the update of the beneficiation plant.
In February 2012, the Group procured design documentation from OJSC DIOS in the amount of US$21 thousand in relation to the construction of roads and loading facilities.
On 15 March 2011, the shareholders of the Group approved the purchase of 400 rail cars, with an option to purchase an additional 600 rail cars, from PJSC Stakhanov Railcar Company.
712 rail cars were ordered under the authority of this shareholder approval during the financial year 2011 and 288 rail cars in 2012, bringing the total ordered to 1,000 units.
As of 31 December 2012, all rail cars have been delivered bringing the total fleet of own rail cars to 1,933 units.
788 rail cars amounting to US$55,026 thousand were put into operation during the financial year 2012.
129 F I N AN C IAL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Note 34: Related party disclosure continued Balances with related parties The outstanding balances, as a result of transactions with related parties, for the periods presented are shown in the table below: Year ended 31.12.13 Year ended 31.12.12 Entities Entities under Other under Other common Associated related common Associated related US$000 control companies parties control companies parties j Investments available-for-sale 396 530 k Other non-current assets 7,438 2,085 l Prepayments for property, plant and equipment 1,548 625 Total non-current assets 9,382 3,240 m Trade and other receivables 1,150 31 823 3 n Prepayments and other current assets 136 1,172 186 162 1,302 18 o Cash and cash equivalents 143,005 141,424 Total current assets 144,291 1,172 217 142,409 1,302 21 p Trade and other payables 3,099 275 1,694 122 Current liabilities 3,099 275 1,694 122 Entities under common control A description of the most material balances which are over US$200 thousand in the current or comparative period is given below.
j The balance of the investments available-for sale comprised shareholdings in PJSC Stakhanov Railcar Company 1.10% and Vostok Ruda Ltd. 1.10%.
The ultimate beneficial owner of these companies is Kostyantin Zhevago.
PJSC Stakhanov Railcar Company is further listed on the Ukrainian stock exchange.
The changes of the values in the table above are related to fair value adjustments recorded during the respective reporting periods.
The shareholdings for all investments remained unchanged during the periods disclosed above.
During the financial year 2012, the investment in Vostok Ruda Ltd. was subject to an impairment of US$430 thousand.
k As of 31 December 2013, other non-current assets related to a deposit of US$7,438 thousand with Bank F&C 2012: US$2,085 thousand as security in respect of loans made to employees under the Groups social loyalty programme.
Further information is provided under transactional banking arrangements below.
l As of 31 December 2013, prepayments of US$1,397 thousand were made to OJSC Berdichev Machine-Building Plant Progress 2012: US$289 thousand.
m As of 31 December 2013, trade and other receivables included outstanding amounts due from Vorskla Steel Ltd. of US$387 thousand 2012: US$277 thousand in relation to other sales and US$540 thousand 2012: US$461 thousand from Kislorod PCC for the sale of power, steam and water.
o As of 31 December 2013, cash and cash equivalents with Bank F&C were US$143,005 thousand 2012: US$141,424 thousand.
p Trade and other payables amounting to US$639 thousand for compressed air and oxygen purchased from Kislorod PCC 2012: US$599 thousand and US$1,690 thousand for the procurement of fuel and gas from OJSC Ukrzakordongeologia 2012: US$642 thousand and US$215 thousand 2012: nil and US$258 thousand 2012: US$53 thousand for spare parts procured from AutoKraZ Holding Co. and OJSC Berdichev Machine-Building Plant Progress.
Associated companies n Prepayments and other current assets relate to prepayments of US$1,172 thousand 2012: US$1,302 thousand made to TIS Ruda LLC for transshipment services.
Other related parties p Trade and other payables amounting to US$275 thousand as of 31 December 2013 are in respect of distribution services provided by Slavutich Ruda Ltd. 2012: US$99 thousand.
Transactional banking arrangements The Group has transactional banking arrangements with Bank Finance & Credit Bank F&C in Ukraine which is under common control of the majority shareholder of Ferrexpo plc.
Finance income and expense are disclosed in the table on page 127.
The transactional banking services provided by Bank F&C include also the conversion of US Dollar receipts into Ukrainian Hryvnia for the settlement of liabilities incurred in local currency.
The Group had an uncommitted multicurrency revolving loan facility agreement with Bank F&C which expired on 16 April 2013.
The maximum limit of this facility amounted to UAH80 million US$10,009 thousand at exchange rate as of 31 December 2012 and the terms and conditions of the facility were subject of an independent fair and reasonable confirmation at its inception and renewal dates.
The loan facility remained undrawn for the entire period of time since its inception.
130 F I N AN C I AL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Note 34: Related party disclosure continued On 26 April 2013, the Group entered into a new uncommitted multicurrency revolving loan facility agreement and a documentary credit facility agreement with Bank F&C which will expire on 26 April 2016.
The aggregate maximum limit of these facilities amounts to UAH80 million US$10,009 thousand at the exchange rate as of 31 December 2013 and, as required under Ukrainian legislation, fixed assets are pledged.
The total value of pledges under the terms of the loan facility agreements is US$8,702 thousand as of 31 December 2013.
The terms and conditions of both facilities were the subject of an independent fair and reasonable confirmation.
Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Loan facilities 10,009 10,009 Amount drawn Letter of credit facility outstanding 153 7,179 Bank guarantee facility outstanding 1,081 Bank F&C provides mortgages and loans to employees of the Group for the acquisition, construction and renovation of apartments in Ukraine.
This is part of a social loyalty programme started by the Group in December 2011 allowing certain employees of the Group to borrow at preferential interest rates.
OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining and LLC Ferrexpo Yeristovo GOK act as guarantors for the banks loans to the employees of the Group and have deposited US$7,438 thousand at Bank F&C as security for loans granted or to be granted by Bank F&C to employees of the Group 2012: US$2,085 thousand.
The interest rate margin earned by Bank F&C covers the costs of administrating the mortgages and loans.
Detailed information on the social loyalty programme is provided in the Corporate Responsibility section of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Cash and cash equivalent balances held with Bank F&C are in the normal course of business and are held on call or from time to time on overnight deposit.
Interest is paid on balances held on current accounts and overnight deposits.
The interest rates received by the Group were in line with relevant comparable market rates throughout the year.
Note 35: Employee benefits expenses Employee benefits expenses for the year ended 31 December 2013 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Wages and salaries 76,661 76,057 Social security costs 26,277 25,449 Post-employment benefits 2,938 8,276 Other employee costs 4,574 2,927 Share-based payments 1,266 1,608 Total employee benefits expenses 111,716 114,317 Average number of employees was as follows: Year ended Year ended 31.12.13 31.12.12 Production 7,797 7,189 Marketing and distribution 172 171 Administration 911 1,244 Other 816 954 Total average number of employees 9,696 9,558 Compensation for key management was as follows: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Wages and salaries 6,352 6,299 Social security costs 557 604 Other employee costs 263 260 Total compensation for key management 7,172 7,163 131 F I N AN C IAL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Note 35: Employee benefits expenses continued Share-based payments amounting to US$1,266 thousand 2012: US$984 thousand are included in wages and salaries.
The balances included in the table on the previous page cover compensation for Non-executive and Executive Directors as well as for other key management personnel.
The details of compensation relating to Non-executive and Executive Directors are disclosed in the table below: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Salary and fees 2,424 2,399 Bonus 828 694 Benefits 181 228 Pension 94 53 Gains made on exercise of nil cost share options under the LTIP 292 362 Total compensation to Non-executive and Executive Directors 3,819 3,736 Note 36: Commitments, contingencies and legal disputes Operating lease commitments Group as lessee Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December 2013 are as follows: As at As at US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Less than one year 2,049 3,078 Between one and five years 7,339 8,249 More than five years 56,167 71,475 Total minimum rentals payable 65,555 82,802 During the year ended 31 December 2013, US$2,762 thousand was recognised as an expense in the income statement in respect of operating leases 2012: US$3,063 thousand.
The Group leases land and buildings under operating leases.
The leases on land typically run for 48 years and with a lease period of 5 to 10 years on buildings.
Operating lease commitments Group as lessor The Group does not have any commitments from lease agreements acting as lessor.
Finance lease commitments Future minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: As at 31.12.13 Minimum Present value US$000 payments of payments Less than one year 6,100 4,523 Between one and five years 19,158 16,125 More than five years 2,358 2,132 Total minimum lease payments 27,616 22,780 Less: amounts representing finance charges 4,836 Present value of minimum lease payments 22,780 22,780 132 F I N AN C I AL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Note 36: Commitments, contingencies and legal disputes continued As at 31.12.12 Minimum Present value US$000 payments of payments Less than one year 5,421 3,729 Between one and five years 17,616 13,865 More than five years 5,940 5,604 Total minimum lease payments 28,977 23,198 Less: amounts representing finance charges 5,779 Present value of minimum lease payments 23,198 23,198 Other As at As at US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Capital commitments on purchase of property, plant and equipment 102,958 162,665 Legal In the ordinary course of business, the Group is subject to legal actions and complaints.
Management believes that the ultimate liability, if any, arising from such actions or complaints will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or the results of future operations of the Group.
The Group is currently involved in a share dispute which commenced in 2005 and which was disclosed and, as appropriate, updated in the Groups 2007 IPO prospectus and subsequent Interim and Annual Report and Accounts as well as in its Eurobond prospectuses.
In 2005 a former shareholder the claimant in OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining FPM brought proceedings in the Ukrainian courts, seeking to invalidate the share sale and purchase agreements pursuant to which a 40.19% stake in FPM was sold to nominee companies that were previously ultimately controlled by Kostyantin Zhevago, amongst other parties.
This 40.19% stake has subsequently been diluted to 14% following share issues by FPM.
Following various court rulings in favour of the defendant and the claimant, on 10 April 2010 the High Commercial Court of Ukraine granted the cassation complaint of the former shareholder and invalidated the respective share sale and purchase agreements without ruling on any consequences of such invalidity.
On 6 October 2011, the former shareholder filed a new claim in Ukraine alleging that as a result of the invalidity of the share sale and purchase agreements with respect to the 40.19% stake in FPM, their rights were infringed by the capital increases approved at FPMs general shareholder meeting on 20 November 2002 and all other general meetings relating to changes to FPMs charter capital.
Accordingly, the claimants asked that the court invalidate the decisions taken at FPMs general shareholder meetings and to restore their status as 40.19% shareholders of FPM as of 20 November 2002 and to cancel all share issues that took place after 20 November 2002.
On 22 November 2011, Ferrexpo AG FAG filed a claim against the claimants at the High Court of Justice in London seeking a confirmation of ownership in FPM shares.
The claim was launched in order to take an active step outside Ukraine to resolve the longrunning dispute.
By a judgement dated 3 April 2012, the proceedings in the UK were stayed while the case continues in Ukraine.
On 26 March 2013, the Kyiv City Commercial Court issued an injunction to suspend trading of FPM shares during the court case.
The case is currently being heard at the Kyiv City Commercial Court and as of the date of the publication of these financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013, there has been no decision on merits passed by the Kyiv City Commercial Court.
After having taken Ukrainian legal advice, the management of the Group believes that risks related to these court proceedings are remote.
Neither the final decision by the High Commercial Court of Ukraine nor any subsequent claims entitles claimants to direct enforcement rights to the shares of FPM in the form claimed by the claimants.
In addition, the restitution of the status quo ante of the shareholding position as sought by claimants is not completely in line with Ukrainian law for various legal, technical and practical reasons.
It follows that no provision was recorded for this dispute as of 31 December 2013.
At the same time, in light of the risks surrounding the operation and independence of Ukrainian courts, including the risks associated with the Ukrainian legal system in general, the claimants may ultimately prevail in this dispute and the Groups ownership of the relevant interest in FPM may be successfully challenged in the future.
133 F I N AN C IAL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Note 36: Commitments, contingencies and legal disputes continued Tax and other regulatory compliance Ukrainian legislation and regulations regarding taxation and customs continue to evolve.
Legislation and regulations are not always clearly written and are subject to varying interpretations and inconsistent enforcement by local, regional and national authorities, and other governmental bodies.
Instances of inconsistent interpretations are not unusual.
The uncertainty of application and the evolution of Ukrainian tax laws, including those affecting cross-border transactions, create a risk of additional tax payments having to be made by the Group, which could have a material effect on the Groups financial position and results of operations.
This includes also a new transfer pricing law which significantly increased the power of the tax authorities.
The Group does not believe that these risks are any more significant than those of similar enterprises in Ukraine.
We are disputing several tax claims by domestic tax authorities following inspections for the fiscal years 2011 and 2012 and continue to dispute in the court system amounts resulting from audits in relation to 2009 and 2010.
Corporate profit tax claims are, among other things, claims related to the deductibility of expenses for tax purposes, adjustments in respect of prices charged on the export of products and payments of additional environmental and other taxes and duties.
The aggregate amount claimed by the Ukrainian tax authorities relating to these matters, together with applicable fines and penalties, is approximately US$16,962 thousand 2012: US$16,900 thousand.
As we believe the tax authorities claims are unlikely to be enforced no provision has been made for these known claims, although there is no guarantee the tax authorities challenges will not succeed.
Recoverable VAT amounting to US$101,977 thousand 2012: US$103,208 thousand outstanding at 31 December 2013 is in the process of being considered by the Ukrainian court system in several different cases.
As the VAT is fully recoverable under the relevant Ukrainian legislation, the Group expects to ultimately receive positive court decisions for these ongoing court proceedings.
Consequently, the VAT is recorded at its full amount in the financial statements, net of an estimated discount to reflect the time value of money as disclosed in note 26.
No provision has been made for any related penalties and fines, which would in the case of a final negative ruling become payable.
Note 37: Financial instruments The accounting classification of each category of financial instruments, and their carrying amounts, are set out below: As at 31.12.13 Financial At fair value liabilities Available-forthrough measured at Loans and sale financial profit or amortised US$000 Notes receivables assets loss cost Total Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 27 390,491 390,491 Trade and other receivables 24 102,498 102,498 Available-for-sale investments 20 82,778 82,778 Other financial assets 15,054 15,054 Total financial assets 508,043 82,778 590,821 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 30 50,001 50,001 Accrued liabilities 33 32,015 32,015 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 29 1,029,239 1,029,239 Total financial liabilities 1,111,255 1,111,255 134 F I N AN C I AL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Note 37: Financial instruments continued As at 31.12.12 Financial At fair value liabilities Available-forthrough measured at Loans and sale financial profit or amortised US$000 Notes receivables assets loss cost Total Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 27 596,560 596,560 Trade and other receivables 24 116,553 116,553 Available-for-sale investments 20 534 534 Other financial assets 860 860 Total financial assets 713,973 534 714,507 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 30 62,609 62,609 Accrued liabilities 33 25,976 25,976 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 29 1,019,985 1,019,985 Total financial liabilities 1,108,570 1,108,570 Financial risk management Overview The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: credit risk liquidity risk market risk including currency and commodity risk This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, the Groups objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Groups management of capital.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated financial statements.
The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit.
Internal Audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee and the CFO.
The Group operates a centralised financial risk management structure under the management of the Executive Committee, accountable to the Board.
The Executive Committee delegates certain responsibilities to the CFO.
The CFOs responsibilities include authority for approving all new physical, commercial or financial transactions that create a financial risk for the Group.
Additionally, the CFO controls the management of treasury risks within each of the business units in accordance with a Board-approved Treasury Policy.
Financial instrument risk exposure and management Natural hedges that can be identified and their effectiveness quantified are used in preference to financial risk management instruments.
Derivative transactions may be executed for risk mitigation purposes only speculation is not permitted under the approved Treasury Policy and are designed to have the effect of reducing risk on underlying market or credit exposures.
Appropriate operational controls ensure operational risks are not increased disproportionately to the reduction in market or credit risk.
The Group has not used any financial risk management instruments that are derivative in nature, or other hedging instruments, in this or prior periods.
135 F I N AN C IAL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Note 37: Financial instruments continued Credit risk Trade and other receivables The Group through its trading operations enters into binding contracts which contain obligations that create exposure to credit, counterparty and country risks.
It is the primary objective of the Group to manage such risks to reduce uncertainty of collection from buyers.
A secondary objective is to minimise the cost of reducing risks within acceptable parameters.
Trade finance is used to balance risk and payment.
These risks include the creditworthiness of the buyer, and the political and economic stability of the buyers country.
Trade finance generally refers to the financing of individual transactions or a series of revolving transactions and are often self-liquidating, whereby the lending bank stipulates that all sales proceeds to be collected are applied to settle the loan, the remainder returned to the Group.
Trade finance transactions are approved by the Group Treasurer.
The primary objective is to ensure that the margins paid and conditions applicable should be the same as, or better than, those which other organisations with similar credit worthiness would achieve, and compared with other financing available to the Group.
Credit risk is the risk associated with the possibility that a buyer will default, by failing to make required payments in a timely manner or to comply with other conditions of an obligation or agreement.
Where appropriate, the Group uses letters of credit to assist in mitigating such risks.
Counterparty risk crystallises when a party to an agreement defaults.
Where letters of credit are used to minimise this risk, the Group uses a confirming bank with a similar or higher credit rating to mitigate country and or credit risk of the issuing bank.
Country risk is the potential volatility of foreign assets, whether receivables or investments, that is due to political and or financial events in a given country.
Group treasury monitors the concentration of all outstanding risks associated with any entity or country, and reports to the Group CFO on a timely basis.
Investment securities The Group limits its cash exposure to credit, counterparty and country risk by only investing in liquid securities and with counterparties outside Ukraine that are incorporated in an A or better S&P rated OECD country.
A ratings approach is used to determine maximum exposure to each counterparty.
Cash not required within three months for production, distribution and capital expenditures is invested with counterparties rated by S&P or Moodys at a level of long-term BBB S&P or short-term A3 S&P or better.
Recognising that the principal activities of the Group are predominantly in Ukraine, special consideration is given to Ukrainian transactional banking counterparties where the sector is small and constrained by the sovereign credit rating.
Exceptions may be made under the following conditions: the counterparty is resident in Ukraine: and the counterparty is included in the top 15 financial institutions in Ukraine based on the Groups assessment of the creditworthiness of the financial institution.
Cash and deposits are held with the Groups transactional bank in Ukraine, which is a related party financial institution.
This bank is registered with the National Bank of Ukraine for receiving and disbursing payments under Group intercompany loans, and is an approved Ukrainian counterparty.
The Group is therefore exposed to Ukraine country risk in this respect as well as in relation to certain of its other activities.
Guarantees The Groups policy is to provide financial guarantees under limited circumstances only for the benefit of wholly-owned or substantially wholly-owned subsidiaries.
At 31 December 2013 Ferrexpo AG and Ferrexpo Finance plc were jointly and severally liable under a US$420 million revolving pre-export finance facility having an outstanding balance of US$420 million 2012: US$420 million.
Additionally, Ferrexpo AG, Ferrexpo Finance plc and Ferrexpo Middle East FZE were jointly and severally liable under a new US$350 million revolving pre-export finance facility which was undrawn as of 31 December 2013.
Ferrexpo plc, Ferrexpo AG and Ferrexpo Middle East FZE are guarantors to the US$500 million Eurobond Notes issued by Ferrexpo Finance plc, which is due for repayment on 7 April 2016.
Additionally the Notes benefit from a surety agreement provided by OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining.
Ferrexpo AG acts as a guarantor for several finance facilities provided to Ukrainian subsidiaries amounting to US$96,080 thousand 2012: US$150,600 thousand.
136 F I N AN C I AL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Note 37: Financial instruments continued Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: As at As at US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Cash and cash equivalents 390,491 596,560 Trade and other receivables 102,498 116,553 Other financial assets 15,054 860 Total maximum exposure to credit risk 508,043 713,973 Of the total maximum exposure to credit risk, US$158,197 thousand 2012: US$156,885 thousand related to Ukraine.
The total receivables balance relating to the Groups top three customers was US$25,210 thousand 2012: US$37,383 thousand making up 24.6% of the total amounts receivable 2012: 32.2%.
Impairment profile The Groups exposure to credit risk relating to trade and other receivables is disclosed in note 24.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach is to ensure that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation by holding surplus cash or undrawn committed credit facilities.
The Group prepares detailed rolling cash flow forecasts, which assist it in monitoring cash flow requirements and optimising its cash return on investments.
Typically the Group ensures that it has sufficient cash on demand and or lines of credit to meet expected operational expenses for a period of 30 days, including the servicing of financial obligations: this excludes the potential impact of extreme circumstances that cannot reasonably be predicted, such as natural disasters.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities by interest type: As at 31.12.13 Less than Between Between More than US$000 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years 5 years Total Interest-bearing Eurobond issued 493,810 493,810 Syndicated loans secured 70,000 210,000 140,000 420,000 Other banks secured 16,775 17,088 23,880 25,161 82,904 Obligation under finance lease 4,523 4,641 11,485 2,131 22,780 Interest accrued 9,745 9,745 Future interest payable 52,818 48,206 24,462 442 125,928 Total interest-bearing 153,861 279,935 693,637 27,734 1,155,167 Non-interest-bearing Trade and other payables 50,001 50,001 Accrued liabilities 32,015 32,015 Total non-interest-bearing 82,016 82,016 Total financial liabilities 235,877 279,935 693,637 27,734 1,237,183 Net financial liabilities for amounts maturing in less than one year and between one to two years can be reduced by US$70,000 thousand and US$210,000 thousand respectively from utilising the undrawn committed PXF facility of US$350,000 thousand.
See also note 29 for further information.
137 F I N AN C IAL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Note 37: Financial instruments continued As at 31.12.12 Less than Between Between More than US$000 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years 5 years Total Interest-bearing Eurobond issued 491,438 491,438 Syndicated loans secured 70,000 350,000 420,000 Other banks secured 13,321 13,300 37,864 11,068 75,553 Obligation under finance lease 3,729 3,870 15,600 23,199 Interest accrued 9,796 9,796 Future interest payable 53,323 52,560 71,559 607 178,049 Total interest-bearing 80,169 139,730 966,461 11,675 1,198,035 Non-interest-bearing Trade and other payables 62,609 62,609 Accrued liabilities 25,926 50 25,976 Total non-interest-bearing 88,535 50 88,585 Total financial liabilities 168,704 139,780 966,461 11,675 1,286,620 Currency risk The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of the Group.
Functional currencies for the Group are primarily the Ukrainian Hryvnia, but also US Dollars, Swiss Francs, Euro and UK Pounds Sterling.
The Groups major lines of borrowings and the majority of its sales are denominated in US Dollars, with costs of local Ukrainian production mainly in Hryvnia.
The value of the Hryvnia is managed by the National Bank of Ukraine NBU.
The Group has gross recoverable VAT balances of US$318,213 thousand UAH2,542 million and prepaid corporate profit tax of US$87,475 thousand UAH594,5 million to be recovered from the Ukraine government tax authority and is reliant on the normal functioning of this system.
The exact timing of recovery is subject to uncertainties, along with the prevailing exchange rate to the US Dollar at the time of repayment.
A devaluation of the Ukrainian Hryvnia will negatively affect the expected cash flows from the refunds in US Dollars irrespective of whether received in cash or in the form of bonds or treasury promissory notes.
A devaluation of the Ukrainian Hryvnia will reduce the operating costs of the production unit in US Dollar terms and the value of Hryvnia payables recorded in the statement of financial position at the year end in US Dollars.
As the majority of sales and receivables are denominated in US Dollars, a devaluation in the local currency will result in operating exchange gains recorded in the income statement.
With a devaluation of the local currency, US Dollar-denominated loans held by the Ukrainian subsidiary will result in non-operating exchange losses to the extent these are not matched by US Dollar-denominated assets.
Fixed assets are similarly held in local currency amounts and a devaluation in the currency will result in reduced net asset values which are recorded in reserves.
The NBU manages and determines the official exchange rates.
An interbank market for exchange of currencies exists in Ukraine and is monitored by the NBU.
The Group, through financial institutions, exchanges currencies at bank offered market rates.
Trade receivables are predominately in US Dollars and are not hedged.
Trade payables denominated in US Dollars are also not hedged on the market, but are matched against US Dollar currency receipts.
This includes the interest expense which is principally payable in US Dollars.
Trade receivables and trade payables in Ukrainian Hryvnia are not hedged as a forward market for the currency is generally not available.
Other Group monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are considered immaterial as the exposure to currency risk mainly relates to corporate costs within Switzerland and the United Kingdom.
138 F I N AN C I AL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Note 37: Financial instruments continued The Groups exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows based on notional amounts: As at 31.12.13 Ukrainian US Swiss Other US$000 Hryvnia Dollar Euro Franc currencies Total Financial assets 4 89,898 1,026 685 454 92,067 Financial liabilities Other banks secured 56,215 382 56,597 Obligation under finance lease 4,146 4,146 Interest accrued 426 2 428 Total borrowings 60,787 384 61,171 Trade and other payables 2,844 1,018 142 360 4,364 Accrued liabilities 18 554 572 Total financial liabilities 63,631 1,402 160 914 66,107 Net financial assets liabilities 4 26,267 376 525 460 25,960 As at 31.12.12 Ukrainian US Swiss Other US$000 Hryvnia Dollar Euro Franc currencies Total Financial assets 4 112,515 612 835 1,036 115,002 Financial liabilities Other banks secured 39,066 467 39,533 Obligation under finance lease 2,364 2,364 Interest accrued 425 2 427 Total borrowings 41,855 469 42,324 Trade and other payables 4,219 1,754 384 489 6,846 Accrued liabilities 14 348 362 Total financial liabilities 46,074 2,223 398 837 49,532 Net financial assets liabilities 4 66,441 1,611 437 199 65,470 Interest rate risk The Group predominantly borrows bank funds that are at floating interest rates and is exposed to interest rate movements.
The interest rate exposure to US Dollars remained relatively low during the period, and no interest rate swaps have been entered into in this or prior periods.
Commodity risk The Group is exposed to longer-term movements in the price of iron ore, but does not have a commodity risk exposure to its financial assets and liabilities once the sale has been made.
Trade receivables are based on a fixed contract price, and so do not fluctuate with iron ore market prices.
Similarly, finished goods are held at cost, with revaluation to a spot price not applicable for iron ore pellets, there being no tradable exchange in the product to ascertain its market value.
Sensitivity analysis A 20% strengthening of the US Dollar against the following currencies at 31 December would have increased decreased income statement and equity by the amounts shown below.
This assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant.
Year ended Year ended 31.12.13 31.12.12 Income Income statement statement US$000 equity equity Ukrainian Hryvnia 4,379 11,074 Euro 63 269 Swiss Franc 88 73 Total 4,404 10,878 A 20% weakening of the US Dollar against the above currencies would have an equal but opposite effect to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all the other variables remain constant.
139 F I N AN C IAL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Note 37: Financial instruments continued Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed rate instruments The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, and the Group does not hold any derivatives e. g. interest rate swaps.
Therefore a change in interest rates at the reporting date would not affect profit or loss.
Cash flow sensitivity for variable rate instruments An increase of 100 basis points bps in interest rates would have increased decreased equity and profit or loss by the amounts shown below.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 Net finance charge 2,705 1,619 A decrease of 100bps would increase equity and profit by US$827 thousand for the year ended 31 December 2013 2012: increase of US$2,215 thousand.
This is on the basis that all the other variables remain constant.
Set out below are the carrying amounts and fair values of the Groups financial instruments that are carried in the consolidated statement of financial position: Carrying amount Fair value As at As at As at As at US$000 31.12.13 31.12.12 31.12.13 31.12.12 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 390,491 596,560 390,491 596,560 Trade and other receivables 102,498 116,553 102,498 116,553 Available-for-sale investments 82,778 534 82,778 534 Other financial assets 15,054 860 15,054 860 Total financial assets 590,821 714,507 590,821 714,507 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 50,001 62,609 50,001 62,609 Accrued liabilities 32,015 25,976 32,015 25,976 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,029,239 1,019,985 1,035,933 1,026,084 Total financial liabilities 1,111,255 1,108,570 1,117,949 1,114,669 Fair values The fair values of cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables and payables are approximately equal to their carrying amounts due to their short maturity.
The available-for-sale equity investment in PJSC Stakhanov Railcar Company in the amount of US$396 thousand 2012: US$534 thousand is fair valued based on the quoted market price for its shares on the Ukrainian Stock exchange PFTS.
The 15.5% equity investment in Ferrous Resources totalling US$82,382 thousand 2012: nil was made in March and September 2013.
The unquoted shares are not traded in an organised financial market.
The most recent transaction price is considered to reflect the best fair value as of 31 December 2013 in the absence of any significant events since the acquisition of the last tranche.
The fair values of interest-bearing loans and borrowings are based on the discounted cash flows using market interest rates except for the fair value of the Eurobond issued, which is based on the market price quotation at the reporting date.
140 F I N AN C I AL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Note 37: Financial instruments continued Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
Level 1: fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 3: fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
As at 31.12.13 US$000 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets 396 82,382 82,778 Total available-for-sale financial assets 396 82,382 82,778 As at 31.12.12 US$000 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets 534 534 Total available-for-sale financial assets 534 534 There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 in the period.
Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements of financial assets As at 31.12.13 As at 31.12.12  for-sale financial financial US$000 assets assets Opening balance 430 Additions 82,382 Total gains or losses: in profit or loss 430 in other comprehensive income Transfer out of Level 3 Closing balance 82,382 Capital management The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base.
The Board of Directors monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders, as well as the return on capital, which the Group defines as total shareholders equity, excluding non-controlling interests, and the level of dividends to Ordinary Shareholders.
Please refer to the Statement of Changes in Equity for details of the capital position of the Group.
The Board seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings and advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position.
The Board continues to support maintaining a sound capital base balanced against these market constraints.
141 F I N AN C IAL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Note 37: Financial instruments continued The Board maintains a dividend policy consistent with the Groups profile, reflecting the investment activities the Group is making on major projects for future production growth and the cash generated by existing operations, whilst maintaining a prudent level of dividend cover.
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is subject to externally imposed capital requirements other than a bank covenant requirement to maintain consolidated equity of the Group of US$500,000 thousand including non-controlling interests and excluding the translation reserve.
Compliance is ensured by balancing dividend payments against the earnings of the Group.
For more information about the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings see note 29.
Note 38: Share-based payments Long-term incentive plan LTIP The following share awards were granted under the LTIP in the previous financial years.
The LTIP vesting period is three years.
000 2013 LTIP 2012 LTIP 2011 LTIP Total Year ended 31.12.13 450 450 Year ended 31.12.12 485 485 Year ended 31.12.11 415 415 The LTIP is subject to a performance condition based on the Total Shareholder Return TSR compared to a comparator group, measured over the vesting period, as described in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The following expenses have been recognised in 2013 and 2012 in respect of the LTIP: US$000 2013 LTIP 2012 LTIP 2011 LTIP 2010 LTIP Total Year ended 31.12.13 210 528 528 1,266 Year ended 31.12.12 693 592 323 1,608 The fair value of these awards was assessed at their grant date using a simulation or Monte Carlo model consistent with the mathematics underlying the standard Black-Scholes options pricing model, extended to allow for the performance conditions.
Each simulation of the model projects the Companys and comparators share prices with reinvested dividends over the vesting period, allowing for the volatilities and correlations between the shares as estimated from historical data.
From this projection the proportion of awards vesting, and the value to employees, is calculated.
100,000 simulations were run to calculate the fair values.
The fair value is set as the average value over all the simulations.
000 LTIP Beginning of the year 3.23 3.38 1,150 905 Awards granted during the year 1.40 2.32 450 485 Lapsed during the year 3.42 30 Vested during the year 3.28 1.94 250 240 Outstanding at 31 December 2.59 3.23 1,320 1,150 142 F I N AN C I AL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Note 39: Operating profit by function Before Before adjusting Adjusted Year ended adjusting Adjusted Year ended US$000 Notes items items 31.12.13 items items 31.12.12 Revenue 6 1,581,385 1,581,385 1,424,030 1,424,030 Cost of sales 3 7 773,221 773,221 690,729 690,729 Gross profit 808,164 808,164 733,301 733,301 Selling and distribution expenses 8 335,718 335,718 311,964 311,964 General and administrative expenses 9 54,839 54,839 56,329 56,329 Other income 10 6,662 6,662 11,347 11,347 Other expenses 11 23,457 45,767 69,224 30,161 4,903 35,064 Operating foreign exchange gain 12 622 622 653 653 Operating profit 401,434 45,767 355,667 346,847 4,903 341,944 Share of profit of associates 14 3,551 3,551 2,772 2,772 Total profit from operations and associates 404,985 45,767 359,218 349,619 4,903 344,716 Summary of adjusted items: Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.13 31.12.12 Operating adjusting items Write-down of VAT receivable 26 36,421 Write-offs and impairment losses 13 854 836 Losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment 8,492 4,067 Total operating adjusting items 45,767 4,903 Note 40: Events after the reporting period Since the balance sheet date, the Ukrainian Hryvnia has devalued by 15.6% compared to the US Dollar: from 7.993 as of 31 December 2013 to 9.236 as of date of the publication of these accounts.
The Group has assets and liabilities denominated in this currency, which when translated at the current prevailing rates would reduce the net assets of the Group.
A devaluation of 1% of the Ukrainian Hryvnia reduces the Groups net assets by approximately US$24,000 thousand.
Subsequent to the year end, the Group proposed dividends as disclosed in note 17.
Other than disclosed above, no material adjusting or non-adjusting events have occurred.
