147 F I N AN C IAL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 APPENDIX 1 SUBSIDIARY RISKS The list of subsidiary risks and uncertainties facing theGroups business that follows below is based on the Boards current understanding.
Due to the very nature ofrisk it cannot be expected to be completely exhaustive.
New risks may emerge, and the severity or probability associated with knownrisks may change over time.
T he Groups principal risks are disclosed on pages 28 to 31.
RISKS RELATING TO THE GROUPS OPERATIONS Licences Possible impact Mitigation The Group complies with commitments under its various licences in See also Risk relating to the Groups strategy government order to ensure that the conditions contained within the licences are approvals of expansion on page 31. fulfilled or, if appropriate, waivers are obtained.
Mining and land allotment licences are critical to the Groups operations, and there can be no guarantee that they will be renewed or that additional licences will be obtained.
This could adversely affect the Groups operations and its ability to develop in the future.
Relocation of communities Possible impact Mitigation The resolution of the issue is supported by strong activity at the Certain small rural settlements will have to be relocated in order to local level including timely meetings and dialogue with community allow us to proceed with some of our mine expansion projects.
representatives, in order to reach consensus on the benefits of Potential solutions have been explored, and progress has been relocation in terms of improved accommodation and utilities and made during the recent months.
better access to transport infrastructure and social services.
Communities are paid a fair price for their land and compensation for disruption.
As it is included in the approved funding of the Capital Project, the topic is under constant review, including weekly meetings at site, and when necessary at monthly Executive Committee meetings.
148 F I N AN C I AL S T A TE M E NT S FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 APPENDIX 1 SUBSIDIARY RISKS continued RISKS RELATING TO FINANCE Exchange rate risk Possible impact Mitigation Historical weakness of the Ukrainian Hryvnia in times of low The Group receives the majority of its income in US Dollars while a commodity prices has provided a natural hedge during downturns large proportion of its costs are denominated in Ukrainian Hryvnia.
All of the Groups revenues and associated debt are denominated in US Dollars.
An appreciation of the Ukrainian Hryvnia against the US Dollar could have a negative impact on the profitability of the Group.
Interest rate risk Possible impact Mitigation The Group has optimised its debt structure, maintaining low A portion of the Groups finance facility is linked to US Dollar LIBOR balance sheet gearing.
As a result, its interest costs are a low rates.
An increase in interest rates will have a negative impact on proportion of its profitability.
the Groups financial costs, thus affecting profitability.
Financing risk Possible impact Mitigation The Groups financing risk has been mitigated by the issue of a The Groups development projects may be funded using debt US$500 million Eurobond and a US$420 million bank facility.
There is a risk that cancellation The average debt maturity at 31 December 2013 was three years.
of contracts as a result of force majeure events and or lower iron The Group has minimal debt repayments of US$24 million in 2014. ore pellet prices would limit the amount of funding available to the Group, and could prompt lenders of existing finance facilities to require Ferrexpo to assign additional contracts to meet agreed ratios.
