81 G O V E RN A NC E FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Statement by the Directors under the UK Corporate Responsibility Statement of the Directors in Respect of the Governance Code Annual Report and Accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and We confirm on behalf of the Board that to the best of our knowledge: the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with a the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, applicable law and regulations.
liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent b the Strategic Report and the Directors Report includes a fair Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law review of the development and performance of the undertakings the Directors have prepared the financial statements in accordance included in the consolidation as a whole, and the principal risks with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted and uncertainties that they face.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true For and on behalf of the Board and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those Michael Abrahams financial statements, the Directors are required to: Chairman select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Christopher Mawe make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and Chief Financial Officer prudent: state whether applicable IFRS have been followed, subject to any 11 March 2014 material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Board considers that the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
