Fidessa group plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Fidessa group plc Fidessa or the Company, is a company incorporated in England and Wales.
The financial statements are presented in Sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the directors on 14th February 2014.
The consolidated financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Fidessas business activities and position in its market are described in the Strategic Report.
The directors believe that Fidessa is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertainties as far as the global economy is concerned.
Fidessa has considerable financial resources, no borrowings, a high level of recurring revenue and a broad spread of customers.
As a consequence of these factors and having reviewed the forecasts for the coming year, the directors have a reasonable expectation that Fidessa has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS or IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
1 Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis with the exception of financial instruments which are stated in accordance with IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The following standards, amendments and interpretations have been adopted for the first time in these financial statements, none of which had an impact on the consolidated or Companys financial statements: Amendment to IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements: Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income.
Amendment to IFRS1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards: Government Loans.
Amendment to IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
IFRS12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities.
Amendments to IFRS10, IFRS11 and IFRS12 Transition Guidance.
IAS28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 2011.
IFRIC20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine.
Various standards resulting from Annual Improvements to IFRS 2009-2011 Cycle.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates, assumptions and judgements that are likely to contain the greatest degree of uncertainty are summarised in note 4.
