Fidessa group plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Independent auditors report to the members of Fidessa group plc Opinion and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the group financial statements of Fidessa group plc for the year ended 31st December 2013 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the group and parent company balance sheets, the group and parent company cash flow statement, the group and parent company statement of changes in equity and related notes.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31st December 2013 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatements that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Revenue recognition 279.0 million Refer to Audit Committees report, accounting policy note 2d and financial disclosures note 5.
The risk The group provides its products and services to customers in bundled packages.
These packages may contain two or more of the following elements: software rental, consultancy services, data charges and connectivity services.
Consultancy services may be provided on a fixed price basis and such services are recognised based on the percentage of completion POC.
Determining the POC of the contract, which may include making estimates of potential cost contingencies, requires significant judgement.
The group must also consider when it is appropriate to commence revenue recognition of each element included in the contract.
Where the products or services are being deployed at multiple customer sites, judgement may be required to determine whether the group has fulfilled its obligations associated with each element.
Our response In this area our audit procedures included, among others: For fixed price consultancy services which were not completed at the balance sheet date, we assessed the calculation of the stage of completion.
This included assessing the inputs used to determine the amount of costs incurred to date and challenging the assessment of forecast costs to complete.
Where contingencies were included in the calculation of costs to complete, we discussed the basis for their calculation with the directors and project managers who are responsible for delivering the projects, and evaluated the historical accuracy of the utilisation of contingencies.
Fidessa group plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Independent auditors report to the members of Fidessa group plc continued For contracts where software, connectivity and market data revenue has been recognised during the year, our work focused on ensuring that the internal control process regarding approval of contractual terms had been followed.
Our work also focused on ensuring the group has obtained sufficient evidence that it has fulfilled the relevant obligations under the deployment phase of the contract.
This included assessing whether the group has obtained customer acceptance or other evidence that the relevant deployment services have been completed and that it is appropriate to recognise revenue on the other elements of the contract.
We also assessed the adequacy of the disclosures in respect of amounts recognised as revenue during the period or deferred at the balance sheet date.
Goodwill 44.9 million Refer to Audit Committees report, accounting policy note 2j and financial disclosures note 13.
The risk There is a risk of irrecoverability of goodwill.
This is due to historical valuations identifying that there was significant sensitivity to changes in forecast operating margin.
As such, there is inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future cash flows, which form the basis for the assessment of the goodwill recoverability.
Our response Our audit procedures included, among others, testing of the budgeting procedures upon which the forecasts are based and assessing the integrity of the discounted cash flow model.
We used our own internal valuation specialist to challenge the assumptions used, in particular the inputs and methodology used to determine the discount rate used to present value the cash flow projections.
Our work included comparing the assumptions made in compiling their discount rate to market data.
We considered the historical accuracy of key assumptions by comparing the accuracy of the previous estimates of revenue and cost growth to the actual amount achieved.
We sensitised key assumptions, including revenue growth rate and the discount factor, to assess whether the cash flow forecast was too conservative or optimistic.
We considered whether the disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
Capitalisation of development costs 41.3 million Refer to Audit Committees report, accounting policy note 2j and financial disclosures note 13.
The risk The group capitalises costs incurred on the development of its software products.
In order to determine the amount of cost that should be capitalised, which is principally costs incurred through employing software developers, the group must assess whether the cost meets the capitalisation criteria set out in the accounting standard.
The group must also apply judgement in determining whether the future cash flows expected to be derived from the sale of its products support the recoverability of the capitalised amounts.
Our response In this area our audit procedures included, among others, evaluating the effectiveness of controls in place to separately identify the time on development activities which is categorised as meeting the capitalisation criteria set out by accounting standard.
On a selection basis, we agreed capitalised amounts to supporting documentation including timesheet data.
We evaluated the groups assessment that the expected future cash flows derived from the sale of the products or services would support the capitalised amounts.
This was performed by considering the level of contracted revenues at the balance sheet date, evaluating whether any recently launched products or services had been discontinued and considering the pipeline of anticipated sales.
We also considered the adequacy of the disclosures in respect of research and development costs.
