Fidessa group plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Independent auditors report to the members of Fidessa group plc Opinion and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the group financial statements of Fidessa group plc for the year ended 31st December 2013 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the group and parent company balance sheets, the group and parent company cash flow statement, the group and parent company statement of changes in equity and related notes.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31st December 2013 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatements that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Revenue recognition 279.0 million Refer to Audit Committees report, accounting policy note 2d and financial disclosures note 5.
The risk The group provides its products and services to customers in bundled packages.
These packages may contain two or more of the following elements: software rental, consultancy services, data charges and connectivity services.
Consultancy services may be provided on a fixed price basis and such services are recognised based on the percentage of completion POC.
Determining the POC of the contract, which may include making estimates of potential cost contingencies, requires significant judgement.
The group must also consider when it is appropriate to commence revenue recognition of each element included in the contract.
Where the products or services are being deployed at multiple customer sites, judgement may be required to determine whether the group has fulfilled its obligations associated with each element.
Our response In this area our audit procedures included, among others: For fixed price consultancy services which were not completed at the balance sheet date, we assessed the calculation of the stage of completion.
This included assessing the inputs used to determine the amount of costs incurred to date and challenging the assessment of forecast costs to complete.
Where contingencies were included in the calculation of costs to complete, we discussed the basis for their calculation with the directors and project managers who are responsible for delivering the projects, and evaluated the historical accuracy of the utilisation of contingencies.
