Fidessa group plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Currently there is one female member of the Board, who, immediately following the 2014 Annual General Meeting, represents 14% of Board membership.
Other statutory disclosures In accordance with Section 414C 11 of the Companies Act 2006, to the extent they are not addressed in the Directors and Corporate Governance Report, the disclosures relating to the following matters are included in the Strategic Report: current and proposed product development and investment: risk management: equal opportunities for disabled persons, employee engagement: environmental matters, including greenhouse gas emissions: and corporate social responsibility.
The financial results and position are shown in the financial statements.
A fuller explanation of the results, including the recommended dividend and financial position, is provided in the Overview, the Finance Review, the Market Review and Outlook sections of the Strategic Report and the notes to the financial statements.
Total expenditure on product development is set out in note 6 to the financial statements.
No political donations were made during 2013.
There are no off-balance sheet arrangements.
Details of the trusts relating to Fidessas share incentive plans, including any rights relating to the shares held by those trusts, are set out in note 16 to the financial statements.
Share capital and articles of association Details of the called-up and fully paid share capital are set out in note 16 to the financial statements.
The rights and obligations attaching to the shares and the powers of the directors are set out in the Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to the shares and no person holds securities carrying special rights with regard to control.
The appointment and replacement of directors is governed by the Articles of Association and the Nominations Committees Terms of Reference.
The Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution.
Authority to purchase own shares At the Annual General Meeting held on 30th April 2013 shareholders approved a general authority to re-purchase up to 3,715,498 ordinary shares in the market.
This represented approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital at the time.
No purchase of shares has been made pursuant to this authority.
There is no present intention to use such authority, but the Board considers it desirable that the possibility of making such purchases under appropriate circumstances remains available.
A similar authority will be requested at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, again limited to a maximum of 10% of the issued share capital.
The Board intends only to exercise this authority if it believes that it will lead to an increase in earnings per share for the remaining shareholders.
