Fidessa group plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors and corporate governance report continued The carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets in connection with the acquisition of LatentZero in 2007 and the potential impairment of those assets.
The determination of whether or not goodwill has been impaired requires a review of the value in use of the asset.
The main judgements in relation to the review were considered to be the achievability of the long-term business plan, the potential impact on the business plan of macroeconomic and regulatory factors and the discount rate being applied to projected future cash flows.
The calculation of the value in use was undertaken in December 2013 and the Committee considered the conclusions and sensitivity calculations that had been undertaken as part of the review.
The Committee conducted an annual review of the performance of the external auditor, including receiving feedback from management and the finance team, and the Committee is satisfied that KPMG continues to provide an effective audit service.
External auditor and non-audit work The Committee acknowledges the revised Code published in September 2012 and the requirement that audit services contracts are put out to tender at least once every 10 years.
KPMG has been auditor for over 10 years.
The current audit engagement partner at KPMG was appointed in 2012 following a scheduled rotation and will be required to stand down no later than the end of the Annual General Meeting in 2017.
Accordingly, and in line with the transitional arrangements published by the Financial Reporting Council, the Committee continues to recommend to the Board that the tendering of the external audit services contract should be either at the next rotation of audit engagement partner or earlier, if appropriate circumstances arise.
The Committee maintains appropriate contact with potential alternative suppliers for audit services.
The Board receives written confirmation from the auditor of any relationships it has which may cause a conflict of interest, together with a declaration that it considers itself to be independent.
The Board has approved the auditor undertaking certain other limited activities but assignments outside these activities requires separate Board approval.
The non-audit activity undertaken by the auditor has been assistance on a limited number of tax matters in the reported periods.
The fees for non-audit activity are considered to be immaterial in relation to the fees for audit activity and are detailed in note 7 to the financial statements.
Following its review, the Board is satisfied that independence has been maintained and is satisfied that it is appropriate to continue with the reappointment of KPMG as the auditor.
For details of the auditors fees, please refer to note 7 to the financial statements.
Disclosure of information to auditor The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors and Corporate Governance Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditor is unaware and each director has taken the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to ascertain any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
