Fidessa group plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Going concern Fidessas business activities and position in its market are described in the Overview, Business Model and Strategy, Market Review, Outlook and Risks and Uncertainties sections of the Strategic Report.
The financial position, cash flows and liquidity position are described in the Finance Review and the notes to the financial statements.
In addition, the notes to the financial statements include Fidessas objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
Having reviewed the future plans and projections for the business and its current financial position, the Board believes that Fidessa is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the ongoing economic uncertainties.
Fidessa has considerable financial resources, no borrowings, a high level of recurring revenue and a very broad spread of customers.
As a consequence of these factors and having reviewed the forecasts for the coming year, the Board has a reasonable expectation that Fidessa has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, a period of not less than 12 months from the date of this report.
For this reason, it continues to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Directors responsibilities statement in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Company financial statements on the same basis.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
