Fidessa group plc 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 3 Recent accounting developments At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following standards, interpretations and amendments were issued but not yet mandatory and early adoption has not been applied.
Amendments to IFRS10, IFRS12 and IAS27 Investment Entities.
Amendments to IAS32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
Amendments to IAS36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets.
Amendments to IAS39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting.
Amendments to IAS19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions.
It is considered that the above standards, amendments and interpretations will not have a significant effect on the consolidated or Company results or net assets.
4 Accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make estimates, judgements and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions take account of the circumstances and facts at the period end, historical experience of similar situations and other factors that are believed to be reasonable and relevant, the results for which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.
Actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.
The estimates, judgements and assumptions that may contain the greatest degree of uncertainty are summarised below.
This summary is not a list of all uncertainties, estimates and judgements encountered and others could arise that cause a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets or liabilities.
a Development expenditure Fidessa invests in the development of future products and enhancement of existing products in accordance with the accounting policy.
In deciding whether development expenditure should be capitalised the assessment as to whether material elements of this expenditure will be technically feasible, generate future economic benefit or the period over which to amortise the expenditure is a matter of judgement.
The carrying value of product development capitalised and the amounts capitalised and amortised in the year are detailed in note 13. b Income taxes Fidessa operates internationally and therefore spans several tax jurisdictions.
In recognising income tax assets and liabilities estimates have to be made of the likely outcome of decisions by tax authorities on transactions and events whose treatment for tax purposes is uncertain and on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of deferred tax assets and liabilities.
c Revenue In determining the revenue to recognise each period for fixed price implementations an estimate has to be made of the extent of completion, the work remaining to complete, the technical and commercial risk remaining and, in respect of these uncertainties, the value of revenue recognised or deferred.
For services post-implementation an estimate has to be made of the extent of commercial or other risk and the effect of any such uncertainties on revenue recognised or deferred.
