Fidessa group plc 91 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Interest receivable and payable Fidessa holds net funds and hence its interest risks are associated with short-term cash deposits.
The overall objective with respect to these deposits is to maintain a balance between security of the funds, accessibility of funds and competitive rates of return.
In practice, this means that deposits are unlikely to be made with a maturity date greater than three months.
All deposits are at current market rates.
There are no borrowings due to the cash reserves and strong cash generation of the Fidessa group.
Capital management The Board monitors the total equity, distributable reserves and the cash and cash equivalents balance in considering its retained capital along with when and how a return of capital to shareholders is appropriate.
A strong capital base is maintained so as to provide employee, customer, market, investor and creditor confidence in its subsidiaries businesses and to ensure that it continues to operate as a going concern.
Fidessa has strong cash generation due to being consistently profitable and non-acquisitive in nature.
The annual dividend has a pay-out ratio of approximately 45% which provides a reasonable return to shareholders whilst also providing funds for potential acquisitions and replenishing the cash balance.
However, in the absence of acquisitions, Fidessa has a track record of returning the additional cash to shareholders in the form of special dividends.
Fair values Unless otherwise disclosed, there is no significant difference between the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet and the fair values of the financial instruments.
For receivables and payables the directors consider that the carrying amount approximates their fair value.
12 Operating leases At 31st December the outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases were as follows: 2013 2012 000 000 Less than one year 5,281 4,886 Between one and five years 20,769 18,923 More than five years 41,938 44,828 Total commitment under operating leases 67,988 68,637 Office space is leased under operating leases.
The lease term typically ranges from three years to 20 years, longer term leases normally having options to break the commitment before the end of the term.
Lease terms of greater than five years are often subject to a rent review during the term.
Part of the office space was sublet to an entity outside of the Fidessa group.
