Fidessa group plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Tax 11.3 million charge in the year Refer to Audit Committees report, accounting policy note 2h and financial disclosures note 9.
The risk Tax provisions require the group to make judgement and estimates in relation to tax issues and exposures.
This is one of the key judgemental areas that our audit is concentrated on due to the group operating in a number of tax jurisdictions, the complexities of transfer pricing and other international tax legislation and the time taken for tax matters to be agreed with tax authorities.
Our response In this area our audit procedures included, among others, the use of our own international and local tax specialists to assess the tax positions, to consider correspondence with the relevant tax authorities to analyse and challenge the assumptions used to determine tax provisions using our knowledge and experiences of the application of the international and local legislation by the relevant authorities and courts.
We also considered the adequacy of the disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at 2 million.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of group profit before income tax of which it represents 4.6% which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the company in assessing the financial performance of the group.
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in excess of 0.1 million, in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Audits for group reporting purposes were performed at the key reporting components in UK, North America and Hong Kong.
The UK audit team performed the work in the UK and North America and the work in Hong Kong was completed by component auditors.
These audits covered 94% of total revenue: 90% of profit before taxation: and 96% of total assets.
A review for group reporting was performed on the operations in Japan by a local review team.
The audits undertaken for group reporting purposes at the key reporting components of the group were all performed to local materiality levels set by, or agreed with, the group audit team.
These local materiality levels were set individually for each component and ranged from 0.2 million to 1.0 million.
The review work in Japan was completed using a materiality set by the group audit team.
Detailed audit and review instructions were sent to each auditor in these locations.
These instructions covered the significant areas that should be covered by these audits which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be reported back to the group audit team.
Telephone meetings were held with the auditor in Hong Kong and the team performing the review in Japan.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited from the section titled Directors remuneration policy to Directors remuneration for the year commencing 1st January 2014 inclusive has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
