Fidessa group plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Auditor KPMG LLP is proposed as the auditor and a resolution for its appointment will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting.
The contracting party for the audit services will change from KPMG Audit Plc a fellow KPMG group company.
The team providing the audit service continues and there is no change to the time by which the audit engagement partner is scheduled to change or the audit has to be tendered.
Internal audit The Committee focuses the activity of the internal auditor on those areas where it considers the need to test processes and monitor risk levels.
Fidessa engages an external consultant, who reports directly to the Audit Committee, to conduct the internal audits.
The Audit Committee has considered the independence of the internal audit function and is satisfied that independence has been maintained.
Internal control The Board is ultimately responsible for the system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Code requires that directors review the effectiveness of the system of internal controls, including those of an operational and compliance nature, as well as internal financial controls.
The Committee is of the view that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks and that this has been in place for the period under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
Fidessa has established control processes and procedures to be compliant with the best practice governance provisions.
The Boards agenda includes a regular item for consideration of issues, risk and control, and any actions that may be considered necessary, and it receives reports thereon from the executive directors.
Business unit performance and internal control are monitored by regular Operating Board meetings.
Management is responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their areas of business, together with the design and operation of suitable internal controls.
These risks are assessed on a continual basis and may be associated with a variety of internal or external sources including competition, control breakdowns, disruption in information systems, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
A process of control assessment and reporting is established and defined in Fidessa plcs Quality Management System.
This system continues to be independently audited on a regular basis and was successfully audited to ISO 9001:2000 TickIT in the year.
The UK and US operations maintained the track record of successfully completing the ISAE 3402 SSAE 16 audits during the year.
The directors believe these audits are particularly important to customers in enabling them to satisfy their Sarbanes-Oxley requirements when using a Fidessa solution.
The treasury function operates within guidelines established by the Board.
A comprehensive budgetary process is completed once a year and is reviewed and approved by the Board.
An updated forecast is regularly prepared throughout the year.
The operating results are reported monthly to the Board and compared to the budget and latest forecast as appropriate.
Fidessa presents financial statements to its shareholders twice a year.
