GL OSS AR Y OF TECHNICAL TERMS BGA A BGA Ball Grid Array is a type of surface mount technology used for packaging integrated circuits.
Copper damascene Chemicals used to create nanoscale copper connections within semiconductor wafers.
Die attach products The die refers to the silicon die in active integrated circuit packages.
The attachment is most commonly a thermal path to help draw the heat out of the package and is typically either a purely metal or a conductive polymeric bond.
This application is critical to the integrated circuits reliability and ultimate performance.
Electroplating A plating process that uses electrical current to coat a conductive object with a thin layer of another material in order to bestow a desired property e. g. corrosionresistance and wear-resistance, aesthetic qualities, etc.
to a surface that otherwise lacks that property.
Flux A chemical-based material designed to help reduce oxides and clean metal surfaces in order to enable effective wetting of metal surfaces to the molten solder alloy during the creation of a solder joint when attaching an electronic component to a printed circuit board.
Immersion silver A printed circuit board final finish that provides tarnish resistance, low contact resistance and ease of cleaning.
Specially designed to meet printed circuit board lead-free assembly and OEM requirements.
Integrated circuit or IC An electronic circuit manufactured by lithograph, or the patterned diffusion of trace elements into the surface of a thin substrate of semiconductor material.
Additional materials are deposited and patterned to form interconnections between semiconductor devices.
Printed circuit board A printed circuit board, a type of circuit board which has conducting tracks superimposed or printed on one or both sides.
May refer to a board either before or after the assembly process.
Also referred to as a printed wiring board PWB in the USA.
Printed circuit Printed circuit board assembly involves attaching components such as semiconductors board assembly and capacitors on to a fabricated board and making the required physical and electrical connections.
This has to be done with precise accuracy if the finished printed circuit board is to function effectively.
Semiconductor wafers A semiconductor wafer is a thin slice of semiconducting material, upon which microcircuits are constructed by chemical deposition of various materials.
Solder An alloy of tin and other metals with a comparatively low melting point used to join less fusible metals.
Surface mount technology Both a technology design and the electronic components that are used in the process of soldering components to the surface of a printed circuit board.
Through-hole assembly The use of either older technology parts or parts requiring significant mechanical strength, where the component has wire leads that physically pass through holes in a printed circuit board.
Wafer bumping products Metal alloys for wafer bump plating, including gold, copper, lead-free alloys and low alpha lead-based alloy.
142 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 WWW.
