Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 10.
Share issue cost paid amounted to US$0.3 million.
The placing of shares ensured that Fresnillo plc is compliant with changes to the Ground Rules of the FTSE UK Index Series that require constituents to maintain a minimum free float of 25%.
The proceeds of the placing were used for general corporate purposes and the Companys working capital needs.
As a result, the Companys issued Ordinary Share capital now consists of 736,893,589 2012: 717,160,159 Ordinary Shares of US$0.50 each with voting rights.
The Company does not hold any Ordinary Shares in treasury.
Therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company is 736,893,589.
At 31 December 2013, all issued shares with a par value of $0.50 each are fully paid.
The rights and obligations attaching to these shares are governed by law and the Companys Articles of Association.
Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary Shares.
The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares only entitle the shareholder on winding up or on a return of capital to payment of the amount paid up after repayment to Ordinary Shareholders.
The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares do not entitle the holder to payment of any dividend, or to receive notice or to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
The Company may also at its option redeem the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares at a price of 1.00 or, as custodian, purchase or cancel the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares or require the holder to transfer the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares.
Except at the option of the Company the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares are not transferrable.
Reserves Share premium This reserve records the consideration premium for shares issued at a value that exceeds their nominal value.
During 2013, share premium increased by US$335.4 million as a result of the issue of new Ordinary Shares on 3 May 2013.
Merger reserve The merger reserve represents the difference between the value of the net assets acquired as part of the Pre-IPO reorganisation and the nominal value of the shares issued pursuant to the Merger Agreement.
Movements in this reserve during 2013 represent the impairment of the carrying value of Fresnillos investments in subsidiaries transferred from retained earnings.
Unrealised gains losses on available-for-sale financial assets This reserve records fair value changes on available-for-sale investments, net of tax.
On disposal or on impairment, the cumulative changes in fair value are recycled to the income statement.
Retained earnings This reserve records the accumulated results of the Company, less any distributions and dividends paid.
| 220 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
