Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance 3 Explore 4 Sustainability The search for ore deposits that expand The responsible operation of our business to create our resource base.
value for and ensure the wellbeing of stakeholders, without compromising future generations, through policies and practices implemented from the earliest stages of exploration until mine closure.
Key assets Key pillars Asset Type Health Safety Fresnillo district Juanicipio Silver Environment Community Relations Cinega district Las Casas Silver and gold Socially responsible development has long been a strategic driver for Herradura district Fresnillo plc with established programmes in place prior to our IPO.
Centauro Deep Gold Notwithstanding, the listing in the UK in 2008 brought new requirements and opportunities to enhance our strategy, implementation and controls.
Chihuahua greeneld Today, we benefit from Board-level oversight, executives and managers Orisyvo Gold dedicated to sustainability efforts, and a comprehensive approach that informs our value-creation metrics.
Our licence to operate relies on the Other early stage projects and prospects, Mexico and Peru effectiveness of our HSECR health, safety, environment, community relations policies, procedures, programmes, equipment, training, Our pipeline of organic growth projects extends across the prospecting, monitoring, execution and controls.
geological studies, drilling and resource denition stages.
Prospects must have a minimum potential of 100 moz of silver or 2 moz of gold equivalent We rely on our own executives and staff for oversight, training and and meet strict criteria on ore grades, metallurgical recoveries and implementation of HSECR policies and programmes, and work closely environmental impact.
We acquire concessions that advance our district with employees, contractors, unions, communities, governmental consolidation strategy: the Group currently holds one of the largest agencies, industry organisations, NGOs and other third parties to ensure land positions in Mexico.
We also pursue early stage partnerships and that our performance adheres to the standards, needs and aspirations make selective acquisitions in Mexico and potentially elsewhere in of our stakeholders.
Cross reference to risk section Our experienced team of geologists, working from five regional Pages 47-48, 50, 52-53 exploration ofces, utilise advanced technology and tools to identify new Strategic focus: areas of mineralisation and analyse core samples, while relying on skilled contractors, our own and those of Peoles, to conduct drilling campaigns.
Advance and enhance the sustainability Cross reference to risk section ofour business.
Pages 46-48, 51-52 Strategic focus: Extend the growth pipeline.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 25 Our Business Model continued Business Model Components agreements that enable us to benefit from relatively low transport costs Strategic enablers associated with the proximity of their operations.
The terms of the supply The key inputs required to sustain our value creation model.
agreements with Met-Mex are set on an arms length basis based on international benchmarks.
The Group has sold to other reners and Strategic resources smelters in the past and may do so in the future if conditions warrant.
Financial strength and control Shareholders and note holders Strict control of cash, assets, costs and expenses to retain our The major shareholder in Fresnillo plc is Industrias Peoles S. A.
B. fide C. V. competitive position as a low-cost producer, which allows us to ensure which holds 75% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Peoles operational continuity and deliver shareholder returns.
has been the principal investor in Group assets for over 50 years and is committed to our long-term growth and development.
Peoles is also a Experienced management and skilled personnel significant supplier of services to the Group, as described in the Suppliers Personnel with the requisite knowledge, skills and experience to execute section herein.
our strategy: selection, recruitment, training, development, compensation and retention programmes help secure this resource.
25% of Fresnillo plc shares trade on the London and Mexican Stock Exchanges, and bondholders own US$800 million of Senior Secured Notes Technology due 2023.
The Group maintains a regular dialogue with its independent Advanced tools and systems that support exploration, increase investors and note holders as described in the Corporate Governance Report.
productivity, reinforce sustainability, enhance accountability, and support decision-making and financial planning processes.
Partners The Group owns 56% of Minera Penmont S. fide R. L. fide C. V. with Strategic relationships Newmont USA Limited holding 44%.
Minera Penmont owns the Key suppliers of equipment and services: contractors: customers: equity Herradura, Soledad-Dipolos and Noche Buena mines.
The Group has a partners in our mines and projects: authorities and regulators: employees: 56% interest in the Juanicipio project, while MAG Silver Corporation has community members and organisations where we operate.
a 44% interest, the agreement with MAG Silver was entered into for the development of the Juanicipio concession.
We also partner with a number Strategic relationships of junior exploration companies to conduct early stage prospecting.
Contract and unionised labour Membership organisations We rely on skilled and reliable labour for our operations.
Contractors are We belong to a number of key industry and trade groups in Mexico that strategic partners for key development functions and some operational help advance our strategic objectives.
These include: CAMIMEX, the activities at certain mines, and are integrated into our employee Mexican Mining Chamber, which promotes sector agreements, advocates management systems and training programmes in order to align practices industry positions, and sets benchmarks for the mining sector: CESPEDES and performance with our strategic objectives.
Our workforce plays a key role Sustainable Development Studies Commission for the Mexican Private in our efforts to improve our safety record, notably through the leadership Sector, part of the Mexican Business Coordinating Council, or CCE, which and commitment element of the No More Accidents programme.
coordinates the private sector stance on key issues such as the transition towards a green economy and greenhouse gas mitigation efforts in the We strive to maintain mutually respectful relations with local labour country: and the Mining Cluster for the State of Zacatecas, through which unions through continuous dialogue and collaboration, including yearly mining industry participants in Zacatecas state promote the development of contract negotiations with the unionised workforce.
We are committed economic, social and environmental best practices across the supply chain.
to providing a safe, equitable and fair work environment.
To date, Fresnillo plc has not experienced a work stoppage or industrial action as a Authorities and regulators consequence of labour disputes with the Group, or with Group companies In Mexico and Peru, we must secure mining concessions from the with whom labour unions have collective agreements.
federal government in order to explore for and exploit mineral deposits.
We are subject to the laws and regulations governing all companies, Communities and those for natural resources and mining companies in particular, that Healthy community relations require a deep respect for and knowledge are promulgated by various branches of the government.
These include of the customs, cultures, needs and expectations of each community environmental and construction permits and the use and handling of where we operate.
Engagement efforts begin at the earliest phases of explosives, among others.
We are also subject to state and municipal exploration and continue throughout the lifecycle of a project, including laws and ordinances in the specic localities where we operate.
We invest directly and through partnerships in a range of initiatives that aim to enhance the quality of life and long-term As a publicly-traded company on the London and Mexican stock wellbeing of our communities, with a focus on environment, education, exchanges, the Company is subject to issuer requirements from these health and social integration, entrepreneurship, and social infrastructure.
exchanges as well as financial and regulatory oversight from the securities regulators in the UK and Mexico.
Suppliers We negotiate long-term purchase agreements with key suppliers to secure better pricing and ensure timely availability of key equipment, Risk management framework materials and services.
The Group contracts Servicios Administrativos The identication, evaluation and mitigation of the principal risks that Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. SAPSA, a Peoles subsidiary, to supply could affect the Companys ability to execute its strategy and deliver administrative services.
The relationship is regulated by a Services on its commitments.
Agreement NSA, or New Services Agreement, ensuring that all services Risk identication, assessment and mitigation are performed at all levels are delivered at arms length and on normal commercial terms as per the of the organisation, from the Board and Executive Management to the Relationship Agreement with the Peoles Group.
operational level at each site.
Risk management processes and internal Customers controls operate across our mine sites, exploration and development Substantially all of the primary products originating from our mines projects, and corporate ofces, as well as across functional areas in 2013 were sold to the Met-Mex Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. rening and including finance, HSECR, human resources, procurement, IT, legal, smelting facility in Torren, Coahuila Mexico under a series of supply security and insurance management.
| 26 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
