Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements 1.
Corporate information Fresnillo plc the Company is a public limited company and registered in England and Wales with registered number 6344120 and is the holding company for the Fresnillo subsidiaries detailed in note 6.
The Company is a Mexican resident for taxation purposes with tax residency in Mexico City.
For further information see note 5.
B. fide C. V. Peoles currently owns 75% of the shares of the Company and the ultimate controlling party of the Company is the Baillres family, whose beneficial interest is held through Peoles.
The country of incorporation of Peoles is Mexico.
Copies of Peoles accounts can be obtained from www.
The primary activity of the Company is as holding company for the Fresnillo Group of companies.
The financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2013 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc on 3 March 2014.
Significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation and statement of compliance The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Company for the years ended 31 December 2013 and 2012, and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Companys financial statements are also consistent with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis which considers the realisation of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business.
As at 31 December 2013, the Company is in a net current liability position due to an increase in the intercompany loan.
The Companys Directors confirm that Fresnillo plcs subsidiaries have funds and distributable earnings available for distribution sufficient to repay the intercompany loan and to fund other forecast liabilities of the Company to be incurred in the next 12 months.
Further, given that the loan counterparty is a 100% owned subsidiary of the Company, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that it will not request a repayment of the loan until such time as the Company has sufficient cash balances to make the repayment.
As such the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements of the Company is deemed appropriate.
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain derivative financial instruments and available-for-sale financial instruments which have been measured at fair value.
The financial statements are presented in dollars of the United States of America US dollars or US$ and all monetary amounts are rounded to the nearest thousand US$000 except when otherwise indicated.
The basis of preparation and accounting policies used in preparing the financial statements are set out below.
These accounting policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented unless otherwise stated.
b Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies applied are consistent with those applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 except for the adoption of new standards and interpretations effective as of 1 January 2013.
New standards, interpretations and amendments adopted by the Group The Group has applied, for the first time, certain standards, interpretations and amendments that require restatement of previous financial statements, such as amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
In addition, the adoption of the IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement resulted in additional disclosures.
The nature and the effect of these changes are disclosed below.
IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income OCI Amendments to IAS 1: The amendments to IAS 1 introduce a grouping of items presented in OCI.
Items that could be reclassified or recycled to profit or loss at a future point in time are presented separately from items that will never be reclassified.
The amendment affected presentation only and had no impact on the Company s financial position or performance.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement: IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance under IFRS for all fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 does not change when an entity is required to use fair value, but rather provides guidance on how to measure fair value under IFRS when fair value is required or permitted as well as a requirement for enhanced disclosures.
Application of IFRS 13 has not impacted the fair value measurements of the Group.
Additional disclosures where required, are provided in the individual notes relating to the assets and liabilities whose fair values were determined.
Fair value hierarchy is provided in note 18.
Standards, interpretations and amendments issued but not yet effective The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Companys financial statements are disclosed below.
The Company intends to adopt these standards, if applicable, when they become effective.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 211
