Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued In the Groups consolidated financial statements these derivative instruments are designated as cash flow hedges but for the purposes of the Companys stand-alone financial statements the related hedged items are not held by the Company, so do not qualify as cash flow hedges.
Any gains and losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken directly to the income statement.
Derivatives are valued using valuation approaches and methodologies such as Black Scholes and Net Present Value applicable to the specific type of derivative instrument.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
Embedded derivatives Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives at the date that the Company first becomes party to the contract, with reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows.
Embedded derivatives which are not clearly and closely related to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are separated and accounted for as stand-alone derivatives.
m Fair value measurement The Company measures financial instruments at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair values of financial instruments measured at amortised cost are disclosed in notes 18 and 19.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: In the principal market for the asset or liability In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to the Group.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Company uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Company determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
Further information on fair values is described in note 18. n Dividend distribution Dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Profit or loss attributable to the parent Company The loss for the Company is US$ 292.2 million for the year ended 31 December 2013 2012: profit of US$434.4 million.
In accordance with the exemption granted under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 a separate income statement for the Company has not been presented.
Segment reporting Segmental information is not presented in the Companys stand-alone financial statements as this is presented in the Companys consolidated financial statements.
| 216 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
