Shareholder Information Financial calendar Report a scam Preliminary Statement 4 March 2014 If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the FCA using First Interim Management Statement 16 April 2014 the form at www.
uk scams where you can also review the Annual General Meeting 16 May 2014 latest scams or call the Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
Interim Statement 5 August 2014 Second Interim Management Statement 15 October 2014 If you have already paid money to share fraudsters then contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040 Dividend payment schedule For further information, please visit our website: 2013 Special Dividend Record Date 2 May 2014 www.
com or contact: 2013 Special Dividend Payment Date 22 May 2014 2014 Interim Dividend Record Date 15 August 2014 Fresnillo plc 2014 Interim Dividend Payment Date 11 September 2014 Tel: 44 0 20 7399 2470 Gabriela Mayor, Head of Investor Relations Registrar Joint Corporate Broker Equiniti Ltd Merrill Lynch International Forward looking statements Aspect House, Spencer Road, 2 King Edward Street This document includes statements that are, or may be deemed to be, Lancing London EC1A 1HQ forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements can be West Sussex BN99 6DA United Kingdom identied by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms United Kingdom believes, estimates, plans, projects, anticipates, expects, intends, Auditor may, will, or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations Registered ofce Ernst & Young LLP or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy, plans, 28 Grosvenor Street 1 More London Place objectives, goals, future events or intentions.
These forward-looking London W1K 4QR London SE1 2AF statements include all matters that are not historical facts.
They appear in United Kingdom United Kingdom a number of places throughout this document and include, but are not Corporate headquarters Solicitor limited to, statements regarding the Groups intentions, beliefs or current Moliere No.
222 Linklaters LLP expectations concerning, among other things, the Groups results of Col. Polanco One Silk Street operations, financial position, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and 11540 Mexico, D. F. London EC2Y 8HQ the silver and gold industries.
By their nature, forward-looking statements Mexico United Kingdom involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances.
Sponsor and Corporate Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance Broker and the actual results of the Groups operations, financial position and JPMorgan Cazenove Limited liquidity, and the development of the markets and the industry in which 25 Bank Street the Group operates, may differ materially from those described in, or London E14 5JP suggested by, the forward-looking statements contained in this document.
United Kingdom In addition, even if the results of operations, financial position and liquidity, and the development of the markets and the industry in which Share fraud warning the Group operates are consistent with the forward-looking statements Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue and contained in this document, those results or developments may not be offered shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or an inated indicative of results or developments in subsequent periods.
A number price for shares they own.
These calls come from fraudsters operating of factors could cause results and developments to differ materially from in boiler rooms, mostly based abroad.
While high profits are promised, those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements including, those who buy or sell shares in this way usually lose their money.
without limitation, general economic and business conditions, industry Most victims are experienced investors, losing on average 20,000. trends, competition, commodity prices, changes in regulation, currency uctuations including the US dollar and Mexican peso exchange rates, Protect yourself the Groups ability to recover its reserves or develop new reserves, If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, including its ability to convert its resources into reserves and its mineral inated prices for shares you own, or free company or research reports, potential into resources or reserves, changes in its business strategy, take these steps before handing over any money: political and economic uncertainty.
Get the name of the person and organisation.
Forward-looking statements may, and often do, differ materially from actual results.
Any forward-looking statements in this document speak 2.
Check the Financial Services Register at www.
uk register only as of the date of this document, reect the Groups current view with to ensure they are authorised.
respect to future events and are subject to risks relating to future events 3.
Use the details on the Financial Services Register to contact the rm.
and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to the Groups operations, results of operations, growth strategy and liquidity.
Call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 if there are no should specically consider the factors identied in this document which contact details on the Register or you are told they are out of date.
could cause actual results to differ before making an investment decision.
Search the list of unauthorised rms and individuals to avoid doing Subject to the requirements of the Prospectus Rules, the Disclosure and business with.
Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules or applicable law, the Group explicitly disclaims any obligation or undertaking publicly to release the 6.
REMEMBER: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
result of any revisions to any forward-looking statements in this document If you use an unauthorised rm to buy or sell shares, you will not have that may occur due to any change in the Groups expectations or to access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services reect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
Compensation Scheme FSCS if things go wrong.
| 240 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
com Design and production Radley Yeldar | www.
com This report has been printed on revive 100 white silk and revive 100 premium white uncoated, a paper which is certied by the Forest Stewardship Council.
The paper is made in a mill registered to EMAS, the Eco Management Audit Scheme, and with ISO14001 environmental management system accreditation.
Printed digitally by Pureprint Group without the use of lm separations, plates and associated processing chemicals.
99% of alldry waste associated with this production has been recycled.
Pureprint Group is certicated to ISO 14001 environmental management system, is registered to EMAS the Eco Management Audit Scheme, is a CarbonNeutral Company and has been awarded The Queens Award for Enterprise: Sustainable Development.
Registered ofce 28 Grosvenor Street London W1K 4QR United Kingdom
