Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 14.
Contingencies As of 31 December 2013 the Company has the following contingencies: The Company is subject to various laws and regulations which, if not observed, could give rise to penalties.
Tax periods remain open to review by the Mexican tax authorities in respect of income taxes for five years following the date of the filing of the corporate income tax return, during which time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest.
Under certain circumstances the reviews may cover longer periods.
In addition, because a number of tax periods remain open to review by the tax authorities, there is a risk that transactions, and in particular related party transactions that have not been challenged in the past by the authorities, may be challenged by them in the future, and this may result in the raising of additional tax assessments plus penalties and interest.
It is not practical to determine the amount of any such potential claims or the likelihood of any unfavourable outcome.
However, management believes that its interpretation of the relevant legislation is appropriate and that the Company has complied with all regulations and paid or accrued all taxes and withholdings that are applicable.
On 8 May 2008, the Company and Peoles entered into the Separation Agreement the Separation Agreement.
This agreement relates to the separation of the Fresnillo Group the Group and the Peoles Group and governs certain aspects of the relationship between the Fresnillo Group and the Peoles Group following the initial public offering in May 2008 Admission.
The Separation Agreement provides for cross-indemnities between the Company and Peoles so that, in the case of Peoles, it is held harmless against losses, claims and liabilities including tax liabilities properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Group and, in the case of the Company, it is held harmless by Peoles against losses, claims and liabilities which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business.
Save for any liability arising in connection with tax, the aggregate liability of either party under the indemnities shall not exceed US$250 million in aggregate.
Peoles has agreed to indemnify the Fresnillo Group in relation to i any tax charge, subject to certain exceptions, the Company may incur as a result of the Pre-IPO Reorganisation including as a result of a transaction following Admission of a member of the Fresnillo Group, provided that Peoles has confirmed that the proposed transaction will not give rise to a tax charge, or as a result of a transaction of a member of the Peoles Group on or after Admission, the Global Offer or Admission and ii certain tax aspects of certain other pre-Admission transactions.
Peoles liability under these indemnities and in respect of general tax liabilities arising pre-Admission which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Fresnillo Group shall not exceed US$500 million.
If a member of the Fresnillo Group forming part of Peoles tax consolidation pays an intra-group dividend in excess of its net income tax account Cuenta fide Utilidad Fiscal Neta or CUFIN account after Admission and is relieved of tax as a result of the consolidation, it is required to pay Peoles an amount in respect of that tax.
On 30 November 2013, the Mexican government enacted a new federal labour law.
Management is currently evaluating the new labour law for any potential impacts on the operations and financial position of the Group, however management does not expect any significant effect on the Companys financial statements as at 31 December 2013 and going forward.
In 2009 five members of the El Bajo agrarian community in the state of Sonora, who claimed rights over certain surface land in the proximity of the operations of Minera Penmont Penmont, submitted a legal claim with the Unitarian Agrarian Court Tribunal Unitario Agrario of Hermosillo Sonora, to have Penmont vacate an area of this surface land.
The land in dispute encompassed a portion of surface area where part of the operations of SoledadDipolos is located.
Minera Penmonts mining concessions are held by way of separate title to that relating to the surface land.
The litigation resulted in a definitive court order pursuant to which the Magistrate of the Unitarian Agrarian Court of Hermosillo, Sonora, ordered Penmont to vacate 1,824 hectares of land in July 2013, resulting in the suspension of operations at Soledad-Dipolos.
To date the disputed land has been returned by Penmont, with remediation activities pending in approximately 300 hectares.
The Magistrate has noted that remediation activities are necessary to comply with relevant regulatory requirements and requested the guidance of the Federal Environmental Agency SEMARNAT regarding the same.
The execution of the court ruling also resulted in the temporary suspension by the Mexican Ministry of Defense Secretara fide la Defensa Nacional or MOD of the single explosives permit which covered the Dipolos pit as well as its adjacent Soledad pit and Herradura.
The Soledad pit and Herradura are outside of the area affected by the court ruling, which was confirmed by a court-appointed topographer.
The Company filed a request to lift the explosives suspension at the Soledad pit and Herradura.
In connection with the foregoing matter, the El Bajio agrarian community entered cease and desist proceedings before a Federal district court in Sonora, requesting relief against the potential lifting of the suspension on the use of explosives and originally obtained a temporary stay order, which was subsequently not upheld by the district court.
Following a hearing on 24 January, the district court denied the request by the Ejido El Bajo to prevent the lifting of the explosives permit covering Herradura and Soledad.
The Company received no indication that the Ejido has filed an ultimate appeal regarding the foregoing and the time frame for filing such an appeal has expired.
On 24 February 2014 the MOD granted a new explosives permit for the Herradura mining unit, thereby allowing the use of explosives at this mine.
In connection with the foregoing matters, members of the El Bajio agrarian community have also presented additional claims, including a separate legal suit before the Unitarian Agrarian Court of Hermosillo, Sonora, claiming US$65 million for damages alleging that the Group improperly used the land affected by the court ruling, as well as cancellation of Penmonts mining concessions and environmental permits within the El Bajo lands.
Such concessions and permits are held by way of separate title to that relating to the surface land.
The members have not yet presented substantial evidence to support their claim and the Group believes that these claims are without merit.
Any initial ruling in this case would be subject to the appeals process in Mexico before judicial authorities other than the Unitarian Agrarian Court of Hermosillo, Sonora.
Given the lack of evidence in support of the damages claim, the Company believes that an adverse and definitive ruling for the Group in respect of this law suit is not probable.
Various claims and counterclaims have been made between the relevant parties.
There is significant uncertainty relating to the finalisation and ultimate result relating to these legal proceedings.
| 222 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
