Strategy and KPIs continued 4 Sustainability Advance and enhance the sustainability of our business We continued to advance the maturity of our What we said we would do in 2013 HSECR system this year, including a review of our Fully integrate the HSECR System across materiality assessment and reporting practices, the organisation resulting in the addition of several KPIs.
We identify Enhance the strategic alignment of the HSECR System, incorporating material issues by conducting internal assessments assets such as Centauro Deep and San Julin of risks and incorporating feedback from our Continue to advance the maturity level of the HSECR System: monitor stakeholder engagement activities communities, compliance by contractor companies and formalise a reporting, assurance and internal control process for the HSECR System employees, unions, investors and host governments.
We also benchmark information from industry Improve and maintain the health of our people peers and the insights gained from our participation in international and Mexican initiatives.
Although these processes are not new, historically we have Eliminate unsafe workplace conditions not systematically linked them to our sustainability and behaviours reporting process.
We also extended the implementation of our safety programmes to advanced exploration and development projects, and actively supported our contractors with the adoption of and adherence Enforce and enhance environmental to our policies and programmes.
We mourned two management practices fatalities in the year, and hold ourselves accountable Complete International Cyanide Management Code certication to a zero tolerance policy.
for Cinega and Soledad-Dipolos Engage the communities where we operate Incorporate consultation processes for other key stakeholders Attract, retain and develop our people Strategy in action See pages 76-91 to learn more about our Social and Sustainability Performance Recruiting and training new mining technicians | 36 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance What we did in 2013 What we plan to do in 2014 Incorporated San Julin, Centauro Deep and Orisyvo in the Further advance the maturity of the HSECR system and HSECR system position IT to support HSECR processes and performance Advanced the maturity level of the HSECR System to 75.5%, as validated by  Zero new case of occupational diseases Pursue certication of all operating units in the Occupational Health and Safety Management OHSAS 18001 System Two fatalities Zero fatalities: Certication of all operating units in the Occupational Health and Safety Management OHSAS The No More Accidents action plan became a permanent programme 6 18001 System to engage stakeholders and reinforce the safety culture Evaluate IT systems to support our safety business processes Introduced more comprehensive set of performance indicators Advanced Cinegas application for International Cyanide Obtain Clean Industry certication at Saucito and Cyanide Code Management Code certication at Cinega Zero environmental incidents Review and upgrade energy and climate change, water, land and biodiversity strategies Introduced a more comprehensive set of performance indicators Introduced guidelines to track social investments more effectively Conduct a perception reputation survey and reassessment of community capabilities and opportunities: include focus groups for the first time in the formal consultation process Review and upgrade our community investment strategy and policies Intensied recruitment and training efforts Conduct workplace satisfaction survey and prepare actions plans based on outcomes Conducted performance evaluations across the organisation to align individual objectives and business strategy Review and enhance gender diversity initiatives 6 Our main stakeholder groups are communities, employees, unions, investors and host governments: see pages 23 and 26 for engagement activities.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 37 Strategy and KPIs continued 4 Sustainability KPIs Fatalities Fatal injuries Fatal injury frequency rate FIFR Loss of life of any of the Groups employees full or part-time, direct or subcontracted, union or non-union during any work-related activities.
2 0.02 2 11 6 2 0.07 0.02 2013 results Although the No More Accidents programme has reduced the number of fatal injuries and their frequency, any loss of life is unacceptable.
Fatal injury frequency rate FIFR Number of fatal injuries to employees or contractors per 2010 2011 2012 2013 2012 2013 200,000 hours worked.
Lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR Lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR GHG emissions Tonnes of CO2e The number of lost-time injuries and fatalities per 200,000 hours worked.
Lost-time injuries are work-related injuries rendering Q Scope 1 Q Scope 2 Q Scope 3 0.43 any of the Groups employees full or part-time, direct or 1.19 0.43 subcontracted, union or non-union unable to perform his her regular duties for one shift or more.
149,929 138,838 2013 results The No More Accidents programme has reduced the rate of 339,832 353,211 lost time injuries.
Visible leadership and commitment have been fundamental to hold every individual in our business accountable 236,184 231,404 for safety.
2012 2013 2012 2013 GHG emissions Greenhouse gas emissions estimated in tonnes of CO2e.
Scope 1 Direct Emissions : Combustion of fuel mobile and stationary sources Scope 2 Indirect Emissions : Electricity purchased from the Mexican National Grid CFE and Thermoelectric Peoles TEP.
Scope 3 Other Indirect : Upstream transportation and distribution Inbound Logistics performed by contractors | 38 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance GHG Intensity GHG Intensity Water withdrawal Emissions in tonnes of CO2e per tonne of mineral processed.
CO2e per tonne processed ML new water Q Third party 0.015 Q Groundwater 2013 results 0.011 0.015 Emissions under our operational control Scope 1 decreased while the emissions from our contractors for inbound logistics 1,990 2,236 Scope 3 were higher as a result of our business model.
The demand for electricity increased 3%, raising Scope 2 indirect emissions by 4% due to our reliance on Thermoelectric Peoles TEP.
The reduced tonnage of material processed at Penmont explains the increase in our overall GHG intensity measures.
This performance requires decisive action and 6,359 6,161 a comprehensive review of our GHG reduction strategy.
2012 2013 2012 2013 Water withdrawal Community Investment The total amount of new water, measured in mega litres, US$ million introduced into the mine system.
2.14 2013 results 3.14 2.14 The withdrawal of groundwater freshwater decreased through operational efficiency gains in our mineral processing plants.
The increase in the supply of municipal wastewater has allowed us to maintain our commitment to neutralising the use of fresh water for mineral processing in our Fresnillo and Saucito operations, setting a best practice in the Mexican mining sector.
The reduced tonnage of material processed at Penmont explains the increase in our overall water intensity measures.
2012 2013 Community Investment Contributions made to support the communities where we operate, develop projects or explore.
Our contributions comprise cash, in-kind support and administration costs.
Our efforts target five strategic levers: education, social welfare public health, social interaction and sports, environmental awareness, community capacity building and infrastructure.
2013 results Revenue reductions required our operations to be more selective in their community investment decisions.
However, despite the overall budget decrease, we intensied the number of community engagement activities.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 39
