Our Business Model continued Business Model Components 1 Operate 2 Develop The extraction and beneficiation of ore The development and construction from our operating mines.
of new operating mines and facilities.
Key assets Key assets Asset Type Commodity Year Asset Annual production Fresnillo district Completed in 2013: Dynamic leaching plant Facility at Herradura to process Average attributable annual Fresnillo Underground Silver primary 1554 high-grade ore from the district production of 28,000 oz gold Saucito Underground Silver primary 2011 Project completion 4Q 2013 Cinega district In process: San Julin Cinega Underground Gold 1992 An underground mine Average annual production San Ramn Cinega satellite Underground Gold 2012 in the San Julin district estimated at 10.3 moz silver Herradura district and 44,000 oz gold Herradura Open pit Gold 1997 Start-up 2H 2015 4 Soledad-Dipolos Open pit Gold 2010 Saucito II Noche Buena Open pit Gold 2012 Expansion project at Saucito for Average annual production a secondary underground mine, estimated at 8.4 moz silver Our operating mines share a number of key characteristics: a geographic Fresnillo district Start-up 4Q 2014 proximity within prime gold and silver mining districts in Mexico where Pending: Pyrites treatment plant we seek to consolidate our position and derive synergies from shared infrastructure: b with the exception of Fresnillo, which has been in near Facility at Fresnillo to process Average annual production continuous operation for almost 500 years, our mines were subject tailings from the Fresnillo and estimated at 4 moz silver to rigorous viability criteria prior to development, including embedded Saucito mines to increase gold and and 18,000 oz gold cash costs well below consensus forecast metal prices: and c adaptive silver recovery rates Start-up 2H 2016 extraction methods that reect changing mine characteristics.
Combined, these factors position our cost performance competitively amongst All projects must meet stringent viability criteria including but not limited industry peers.
to resource denition, metallurgy, mine design, environmental impact, We primarily rely on our own expert personnel for key functions such investment requirements, sustaining capital expenditures and rates of as engineering, mine planning, explosives handling and safety oversight, return.
For greeneld projects in new mining districts such as San Julin, while skilled mining labour is generally contracted for excavation, we also consider eventual expansion and synergy potential with our stripping, hauling and processing work.
The workforce is largely drawn other prospects in the district.
from the communities around our mines.
We deploy specialised contract engineering and construction teams, Cross reference to risk section whose services we contract from Peoles see Suppliers, page 26, Pages 46-48, 52 for the disciplined advancement of all projects towards development, construction, start-up and production.
Strategic focus: Maximise the potential of existing operations.
Cross reference to risk section Pages 46-49, 52 Strategic focus: Deliver growth through development projects.
4 The Group suspended operations at Soledad-Dipolos in 2H 2013 following the Ejido El Bajo proceedings.
| 24 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
