Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance 3 Explore 4 Sustainability The search for ore deposits that expand The responsible operation of our business to create our resource base.
value for and ensure the wellbeing of stakeholders, without compromising future generations, through policies and practices implemented from the earliest stages of exploration until mine closure.
Key assets Key pillars Asset Type Health Safety Fresnillo district Juanicipio Silver Environment Community Relations Cinega district Las Casas Silver and gold Socially responsible development has long been a strategic driver for Herradura district Fresnillo plc with established programmes in place prior to our IPO.
Centauro Deep Gold Notwithstanding, the listing in the UK in 2008 brought new requirements and opportunities to enhance our strategy, implementation and controls.
Chihuahua greeneld Today, we benefit from Board-level oversight, executives and managers Orisyvo Gold dedicated to sustainability efforts, and a comprehensive approach that informs our value-creation metrics.
Our licence to operate relies on the Other early stage projects and prospects, Mexico and Peru effectiveness of our HSECR health, safety, environment, community relations policies, procedures, programmes, equipment, training, Our pipeline of organic growth projects extends across the prospecting, monitoring, execution and controls.
geological studies, drilling and resource denition stages.
Prospects must have a minimum potential of 100 moz of silver or 2 moz of gold equivalent We rely on our own executives and staff for oversight, training and and meet strict criteria on ore grades, metallurgical recoveries and implementation of HSECR policies and programmes, and work closely environmental impact.
We acquire concessions that advance our district with employees, contractors, unions, communities, governmental consolidation strategy: the Group currently holds one of the largest agencies, industry organisations, NGOs and other third parties to ensure land positions in Mexico.
We also pursue early stage partnerships and that our performance adheres to the standards, needs and aspirations make selective acquisitions in Mexico and potentially elsewhere in of our stakeholders.
Cross reference to risk section Our experienced team of geologists, working from five regional Pages 47-48, 50, 52-53 exploration ofces, utilise advanced technology and tools to identify new Strategic focus: areas of mineralisation and analyse core samples, while relying on skilled contractors, our own and those of Peoles, to conduct drilling campaigns.
Advance and enhance the sustainability Cross reference to risk section ofour business.
Pages 46-48, 51-52 Strategic focus: Extend the growth pipeline.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 25
