Governance Directors responsibilities STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE Each of the directors, the names of whom are set out on pages 48 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS and 49 of this annual report, confi rms that, to the best of his or her knowledge: The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the group and parent company fi financial statements in accordance with the fi financial statements in this annual report have been prepared in applicable law and regulations.
accordance with the applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, fi financial position and profi t of Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent the company and the group taken as a whole: and company fi financial statements for each fi financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the group fi financial statements in the management report required by DTR4.1.
8R contained in the accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and Strategic Report and the Directors report includes a fair review of have elected to prepare the parent company fi financial statements in the development and performance of the business and the position accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
of the company and the group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face Under company law the directors must not approve the fi financial statements unless they are satisfi ed that they give a true and fair view The Strategic Report from the inside front cover to page 47 and pages of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and of their 84 to 89 includes information on the group structure, the performance profi t or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the group and of the business and the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
The parent company fi financial statements, the directors are required to: fi financial statements on pages 94 to 150 include information on the group and the companys fi financial results, fi financial outlook, cash fl ow select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: and net debt and balance sheet positions.
Notes 23, 27, 28, 31 and 32 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: to the consolidated fi financial statements include information on the groups investments, cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, derivatives, for the group fi financial statements, state whether they have been fi financial risk management objectives, hedging policies and exposure to prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: interest, foreign exchange, credit, liquidity and market risks.
In addition for the parent company fi financial statements, state whether applicable to the above, the directors have considered the groups cash fl ow UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material forecasts for the next 12 months.
The directors are satisfi ed that departures disclosed and explained in the parent company fi financial these cash fl ow forecasts, taking into account reasonably possible risk statements: and sensitivities associated with them and the groups current funding and facilities and its funding strategy, show that the group will continue to prepare the fi financial statements on the going concern basis unless it operate for the foreseeable future.
is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will continue in business.
Accordingly, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group and company will continue to operate within the level of available The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records funding for the foreseeable future and it is therefore appropriate to that are suffi cient to show and explain the parent companys adopt the going concern basis in preparing the fi financial statements.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the fi financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure The directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken as a that its fi financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance, open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and business model and strategy.
detect fraud and other irregularities.
The statement of directors responsibilities and the Strategic Report Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible was approved by a duly authorised committee of the board of for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors directors on 31 March 2014 and signed on its behalf by Himanshu Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that Raja, chief fi financial offi cer.
complies with that law and those regulations.
31 March 2014 The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and fi financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of fi financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 83
