Notice of Annual General Meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR AUDITOR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the company to hold If you are in any doubt about the contents of this document offi ce until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of or the action you should take, you should immediately consult the company.
your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial 18.
To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of Services and Markets Act 2000 if you are resident in the United the auditor.
Kingdom or, if not, from another appropriately authorised independent fi financial adviser.
If you have sold or otherwise DIRECTORS AUTHORITY TO ALLOT transferred all your shares in G4S plc, please send this notice and 19.
That the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally the accompanying documents to the person through whom the authorised pursuant to and in accordance with section 551 of sale or transfer was effected so that it can be passed on to the the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers purchaser or transferee.
of the company to allot shares in the company or grant rights to Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of G4S plc subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares in the company: will be held at The Platinum Suite, ExCeL London, One Western i up to an aggregate nominal amount of 129,299,000: and Gateway, Royal Victoria Dock, London E16 1XL on Thursday, 5 June 2014 at 2.00 pm in order to consider and, if thought fi t, to pass the ii comprising equity securities as defi ned in section 560 of the following Resolutions: Act up to a further aggregate nominal amount of 129,299,000 provided that they are offered by way of a rights issue to holders Resolutions 1 to 19 and Resolution 22 will be proposed as ordinary of ordinary shares on the register of members at such record resolutions.
Resolutions 20, 21 and 23 will be proposed as special date s as the directors may determine where the equity resolutions.
securities respectively attributable to the interests of the ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be REPORT AND ACCOUNTS practicable to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held 1.
To receive the fi financial statements of the company for the year or deemed to be held by them on any such record date s, ended 31 December 2013 and the reports of the directors and subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the auditor thereon.
directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, shares represented by depositary receipts, legal or practical problems REMUNERATION arising under the laws of any territory or the requirements 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy as set out in the of any relevant regulatory body or stock exchange or any Directors remuneration report in the companys annual report and other matter: accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013. provided that this authority shall expire on the date of the next 3.
To approve the Directors remuneration report, other than the Annual General Meeting of the company, save that the company part containing the Directors Remuneration Policy, as set out in shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of the companys annual report and accounts for the year ended such authority which would or might require relevant securities to 31 December 2013. be allotted after such expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot relevant securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement 4.
That the rules of the G4S Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, in as if this authority had not expired: and all unexpired authorities the form produced at the Annual General Meeting and initialled granted previously to the directors to allot relevant securities under by the chairman of the meeting for the purposes of identifi cation section 551 of the Act shall cease to have effect at the conclusion of a summary of which is set out in the appendix to the explanatory this Annual General Meeting save to the extent that the same are notes to this Notice of Meeting be and are hereby approved: exercisable pursuant to section 551 7 of the Act by reason of any and that the directors be and are hereby authorised to: offer or agreement made prior to the date of this Resolution which a adopt the LTIP and to do all such other acts and things as they would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to be granted may consider appropriate to implement the LTIP: and on or after that date.
b establish further plans based on the LTIP but modifi ed to take 20.
That the directors be and are hereby empowered, pursuant to account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws in overseas section 570 of the Act, subject to the passing of Resolution 19 territories, provided that any shares made available under such above, to allot equity securities as defi ned in section 560 of the further plans are treated as counting against the limits on individual Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 19 or overall participation in the LTIP.
above as if section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: DIVIDEND i the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer 5.
To declare a fi final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 or issue of equity securities but in the case of the authority of 5.54p DKK 0.4954 for each ordinary share in the capital of granted under paragraph ii of Resolution 19 above, by way of the company.
rights issue only to or in favour of the holders of shares on the register of members at such record date s as the directors may determine where the equity securities respectively attributable to DIRECTORS the interests of the shareholders are proportionate as nearly as 6.
To elect Himanshu Raja as a director.
may be practicable to the respective numbers of shares held by 7.
To re-elect Ashley Almanza as a director.
them on any such record date s, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or 8.
To re-elect John Connolly as a director.
expedient in relation to fractional entitlements, treasury shares, 9.
To re-elect Adam Crozier as a director.
record dates, shares represented by depositary receipts, legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any territory or the 10.
To re-elect Mark Elliott as a director requirements of any relevant regulatory body or stock exchange 11.
To re-elect Winnie Kin Wah Fok as a director.
To re-elect Grahame Gibson as a director.
ii the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above of equity securities pursuant to the authority granted 13.
To re-elect Mark Seligman as a director.
under Resolution 19 i above up to an maximum nominal 14.
To re-elect Paul Spence as a director.
To re-elect Clare Spottiswoode as a director 16.
To re-elect Tim Weller as a director.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 151 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued and shall expire on the expiry of the authority conferred by Resolution The Manor 19 above unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the company Manor Royal in general meeting, save that the company shall be entitled to make Crawley offers or agreements before the expiry of such power which would West Sussex RH10 9UN or might require equity securities to be allotted, or treasury shares to Company No.
4992207 be sold, after such expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot equity securities or sell treasury shares pursuant to any such offer Notes or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Shareholders are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any All previous unutilised authorities under section 570 of the Act shall of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at cease to have effect at the conclusion of this Annual General Meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE OWN SHARES is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder 21.
That the company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally of the company.
A proxy form which may be used to make such authorised for the purposes of section 701 of the Act, to make appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act of ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the company on 2.
Details of how to appoint a proxy are set out in the notes to such terms and in such manner as the directors may from time to the enclosed proxy form.
In order to be valid an appointment of time determine, provided that: proxy must be returned with any power of attorney or any other authority under which it is executed, by one of the following i the maximum number of such shares which may be purchased methods: in hard copy form by post to Capita Asset Services, PXS 1, is 155,159,000: 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF: in hard copy form ii the minimum price which may be paid for each such share is to that address by courier or by hand during usual business hours: 25p exclusive of all expenses : or, in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service as described in paragraphs 8 and 9 iii the maximum price which may be paid for each such share is below.
In each case the form of proxy must be received by the an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market company no later than 2.00pm on 3 June 2014.
To change your quotations for an ordinary share in the company as derived proxy instructions you may return a new proxy appointment from The London Stock Exchange Daily Offi cial List for the fi five using the method set out above.
The deadline for receipt of proxy business days immediately preceding the day on which such appointments also applies in relation to amended instructions.
share is contracted to be purchased exclusive of expenses : Persons listed on the VP Securities register should follow the and instructions on their Voting Request Form.
iv this authority shall, unless previously revoked or varied, expire at 3.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the company or any CREST Proxy Instruction will not prevent a shareholder to be held in 2015 except in relation to the purchase of such attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person if shares the contract for which was entered into before the he she wishes to do so.
expiry of this authority and which might be executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Act to enjoy information rights a AUTHORITY TO MAKE POLITICAL DONATIONS Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right 22.
That in accordance with sections 366 and 367 of the Act, the to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy company and all companies which are subsidiaries of the company for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such during the period when this Resolution 20 has effect be and are proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, hereby unconditionally authorised to: under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the i make political donations to political parties or independent shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
election candidates not exceeding 50,000 in total: 5.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the ii make political donations to political organisations other than appointment of proxies in paragraph 1 above does not apply to political parties not exceeding 50,000 in total: and Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the company.
iii incur political expenditure not exceeding 50,000 in total: 6.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting as such terms are defi ned in the Act during the period beginning with and for the purpose of the determination by the company of the date of the passing of this Resolution and ending at the conclusion the votes they may cast, shareholders must be registered in the of the next Annual General Meeting of the company provided that the Register of Members of the company at 5.30 pm on 3 June 2014 authorised sum referred to in paragraphs i, ii and iii above may or, in the event of any adjournment, on the date which is two be comprised of one or more amounts in different currencies which, working days before the time of the adjourned meeting.
Changes for the purposes of calculating the said sum, shall be converted into to the Register of Members after the relevant deadline shall be pounds sterling at the exchange rate published in the London edition disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and of the Financial Times on the date on which the relevant donation is vote at the meeting.
made or expenditure incurred or the fi first business day thereafter or, if earlier, on the day in which the company enters into any contract or 7.
As at 28 March 2014 being the latest practicable date prior to undertaking in relation to the same.
the publication of this Notice the companys issued share capital consisted of 1,551,594,436 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the company as at 28 March NOTICE PERIOD FOR GENERAL MEETINGS OTHER 2014 was 1,551,594,436.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through 23.
That a general meeting of the company, other than an Annual the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by General Meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear using the procedures described in the CREST Manual available via days notice.
CREST Personal Members or other By order of the board CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST Peter David sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the Company Secretary appropriate action on their behalf.
31 March 2014 152 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 9.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the 15.
Any shareholder attending the meeting has the right to ask CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a questions.
The company must cause to be answered any such CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifi cations, but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere and must contain the information required for such instruction, as unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether disclosure of confi dential information, b the answer has already it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order c it is undesirable in the interests of the company or the good to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent order of the meeting that the question be answered.
For this purpose, the time 16.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the Act, members meeting the of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require stamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from the company i to give, to members of the company entitled to which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry receive notice of the meeting, notice of a resolution which those to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any members intend to move and which may properly be moved at change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should the meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with be communicated to the appointee through other means.
at the meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution 10.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or which may properly be included in the business at the meeting.
voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland A resolution may properly be moved, or a matter properly included Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for in the business, unless a in the case of a resolution only it would, any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of any inconsistency therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
with any enactment of the companys constitution or otherwise : It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored A request made pursuant to this right may be in hard copy or member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure electronic form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such be given or the matter to be included in the business, must be action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted authenticated by the person s making it and must be received by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this by the company not later than 23 April 2014, being the date six clear connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST weeks before the meeting, and in the case of a matter to be sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to included in the business only must be accompanied by a statement those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations setting out the grounds for the request.
of the CREST system and timings.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 11.
The company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the 311A of the Act, can be found at www.
com circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertifi cated 18.
The rules of the new G4S Long Term Incentive Plan see Resolution Securities Regulations 2001.
4 above, paragraph 2 of the explanatory notes below and the 12.
Voting on all Resolutions will be conducted by way of a poll rather summary of the rules set out in the appendix to the explanatory than a show of hands.
This is a more transparent method of voting notes below will be available for inspection during normal business as shareholders votes are to be counted according to the number hours Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted at the of shares held.
As soon as practicable following the Annual General offi ces of Herbert Smith Freehills LLP, Exchange House, Primrose Meeting, the results of the voting at the meeting and the numbers of Street, London EC2A 2EG and will be available at the place of the proxy votes cast for and against and the number of votes actively meeting from 15 minutes before the start of the meeting until withheld in respect of each of the Resolutions will be announced via its conclusion.
a Regulatory Information Service and also placed on the companys 19.
Any electronic address or web site address is provided in this website: www.
Notice of Meeting solely for the purpose stated expressly herein 13.
Any corporation which is a shareholder can appoint one or more and may not be used to communicate with the company other than corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its for such purpose.
Notwithstanding any telephone number, powers as a shareholder provided that they do not do so in relation fax number or email address that appears on this document or to the same shares.
elsewhere, neither the company nor Capita Asset Services will accept voting instructions received via media other than post or 14.
Under section 527 of the Act, members meeting the threshold by CREST Proxy Instruction in accordance with the notes above.
requirements set out in that section have the right to require the company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the company ceasing to hold offi ce since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Act.
The company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the company has been required under section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 153 Recommendation and explanatory notes relating to business to be conducted at the Annual General Meeting on 5 June 2014 The board of G4S plc considers that the Resolutions set out in the cash fl ow as a third measure.
The principal terms of the LTIP are set Notice of Annual General Meeting are likely to promote the success out in the appendix to these explanatory notes on pages 156 and 157. of the company and are in the best interests of the company and its This ordinary resolution seeks shareholder approval of the LTIP.
The directors unanimously recommend that The full rules will be available for inspection during the hours and you vote in favour of the Resolutions as they intend to do in respect of at the locations set out in note 18 to the Notice of Meeting.
their own benefi cial holdings.
FINAL DIVIDEND RESOLUTION 5 Explanatory notes in relation to the business to be conducted at the Annual General Meeting are set out below.
A fi final dividend of 5.54p DKK 0.4954 per ordinary share for the year ended 31 December 2013 is recommended for payment by the 1.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY directors.
If the recommended fi final dividend is approved, it will be paid on Friday 13 June 2014 to all ordinary shareholders who were on the RESOLUTION 1 register of members at the close of business on 2 May 2014.
The chairman will present the fi financial statements of the company for the year ended 31 December 2013 and the reports of the directors 4.
ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS and auditor thereon to the Annual General Meeting.
REMUNERATION RESOLUTIONS 2 TO 4 Resolution 6 deals with the election of Mr Raja as a director as he was appointed since the companys last Annual General Meeting and, in Changes made to the Companies Act 2006 the Act have resulted accordance with the companys articles of association, he will retire in new requirements this year both for the content of the Directors and stand for election.
remuneration report the Report and its approval.
Accordingly the Report, which is set out on pages 64 to 79, contains: Resolutions 7 to 16 deal with the re-election of the other directors in accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance A statement by Mark Elliott, chairman of the companys Code which provides for all directors of FTSE 350 companies to be Remuneration Committee: subject to re-election by shareholders every year.
The directors remuneration policy in relation to future payments to Biographies of each of the directors seeking election or re-election the directors and former directors: and are set out on pages 48 and 49.
The board has confi rmed following a The annual implementation report on remuneration, which sets out performance review that all directors standing for re-election continue payments made in the fi financial year ending 31 December 2013. to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
The policy part of the Report, which sets out the companys forward 5.
REAPPOINTMENT OF AUDITOR AND AUDITORS looking policy on directors remuneration including the approach to exit payments to directors, is subject to a binding shareholder vote by REMUNERATION RESOLUTIONS 17 AND 18 ordinary resolution at least every three years.
The statement by the Resolution 17 relates to the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as the Remuneration Committee chairman and the annual implementation companys auditor to hold offi ce until the next Annual General Meeting report on remuneration will, as in the past, be put to an annual advisory of the company.
shareholder vote by ordinary resolution.
Resolution 18 authorises the directors to set the auditors Resolution 2 is therefore the ordinary resolution to approve the remuneration.
directors remuneration policy which is set out within the Report on pages 66 to 72.
As noted on page 64, the directors remuneration 6.
AUTHORITY TO ALLOT SHARES RESOLUTION 19 policy will commence on 6 June 2014.
Payments will continue to be made to directors and former directors in their capacity as directors Resolution 19 seeks shareholder approval for the directors to be in accordance with existing contractual arrangements until this date.
Once the directors remuneration policy commences, all payments by At the last Annual General Meeting of the company held on 6 June the company to the directors and any former directors must be made 2013, the directors were given authority to allot ordinary shares in in accordance with the policy unless the payment is separately the capital of the company up to a maximum nominal amount of approved by shareholder resolution.
This authority expires at the end of this years Annual General Meeting.
Of this amount 470,220,000 shares could only be If the directors remuneration policy is approved and remains allotted pursuant to a rights issue.
unchanged, it will be valid for up to three fi financial years without a new shareholder approval.
If the company wishes to change the policy, it will Resolution 19 will, if passed, renew this authority to allot on the same need to put the revised policy to a vote again before it can implement terms as last years resolution save that the number of shares in the new policy.
The board considers it appropriate that the directors be granted the same authority to allot shares in the capital If the directors remuneration policy is not approved, the company will, of the company up to a maximum nominal amount of 258,598,000 if and to the extent permitted by the Act, continue to make payments representing a little under two thirds of the companys issued ordinary to directors in accordance with existing contractual arrangements share capital as at 28 March 2014 the latest practicable date prior to and will seek shareholder approval for a revised policy as soon as publication of the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
517,196,000 shares representing a little under one third of the Resolution 3 is the resolution to approve the directors remuneration companys issued ordinary share capital can only be allotted pursuant report, other than the part containing the directors remuneration to a rights issue.
The authority will last until the conclusion of the next policy.
This is an advisory resolution and does not affect the future Annual General Meeting in 2015. remuneration paid to any director.
The directors do not have any present intention of exercising this Resolution 4 relates to the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP which authority.
In accordance with best practice, if the directors were to the company proposes to introduce to replace the Performance Share exercise this authority so as to allot shares representing more than Plan which was adopted by the Board in July 2004 and will expire in one third of the current capital of the company, they would all offer July 2014.
In order to ensure executives continue to be incentivised to themselves for re-election at the following Annual General Meeting, deliver the groups strategy over the longer term, the Remuneration although it is the directors current intention to stand for election Committee has concluded that a replacement long term incentive plan annually in any event in accordance with the requirements of the UK should be introduced and, having consulted widely, has set revised Corporate Governance Code.
performance measures, including the introduction of average operating 154 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 As at the date of the Notice of Annual General Meeting, the company 9.
POLITICAL DONATIONS RESOLUTION 22 does not hold any ordinary shares in the capital of the company in Resolution 22 deals with the rules on political donations contained in treasury.
However, the 6,934,564 shares held within the G4S Employee the Act.
Under these rules, political donations to any political parties, Benefi t Trust and referred to on page 137 note 37 to the consolidated independent election candidates or political organisations or the fi financial statements are accounted for as treasury shares.
incurring of political expenditure are prohibited unless authorised by shareholders in advance.
DISAPPLICATION OF STATUTORY PRE-EMPTION a political party, a political organisation, or political expenditure is not RIGHTS RESOLUTION 20 easy to decide, as the legislation is capable of wide interpretation.
Sponsorship, subscriptions, payment of expenses, paid leave for Resolution 20 seeks shareholder approval to give the directors employees fulfi lling public duties, and support for bodies representing authority to allot shares in the capital of the company pursuant to the the business community in policy review or reform, may fall within this.
authority granted under Resolution 19 for cash without complying with Therefore, notwithstanding that the company has not made political the pre-emption rights in the Companies Act 2006 the Act in donations requiring shareholder authority in the past, and has no certain circumstances.
This authority will permit the directors to allot: intention either now or in the future of making any such political a shares up to a nominal amount of 258,598,000 representing a donation or incurring any such political expenditure in respect of any little under two thirds of the companys issued share capital on an political party, political organisation or independent election candidate, offer to existing shareholders.
However unless the shares are the board has decided to put forward Resolution 20, which is the same allotted pursuant to a rights issue rather than an open offer, the as the resolution on this subject which was passed at the companys directors may only allot shares up to a nominal amount of Annual General Meeting held on 6 June 2013.
This will allow the 129,299,000 representing a little under one third of the company to support the community and put forward its views to wider companys issued share capital in each case subject to any business and government interests without running the risk of being in adjustments, such as for fractional entitlements and overseas breach of the law.
This authority will cover the period from the date shareholders, as the directors see fi t : and Resolution 20 is passed until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the company.
As permitted under the Act, Resolution 22 b shares up to a maximum nominal value of 19,394,000, also covers political donations made, or political expenditure incurred, representing approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital by any subsidiaries of the company.
of the company as at 28 March 2014 the latest practicable date prior to publication of the Notice of Annual General Meeting otherwise than in connection with an offer to existing shareholders.
PERIOD OF NOTICE FOR CALLING GENERAL MEETINGS RESOLUTION 23 As with Resolution 19, the terms of Resolution 20 are the same as last years resolution save that the number of shares in question Resolution 23 is a resolution to allow the company to hold general has increased.
meetings other than Annual General Meetings on 14 days notice.
The directors confi rm their intention to follow the provisions of the The minimum notice period permitted by the Act for general meetings Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative other than Annual General Meetings is 21 days.
However the Act usage of authorities within a rolling three-year period.
The Principles allows companies to reduce this period back to 14 days other than for provide that companies should not issue shares for cash representing Annual General Meetings provided that two conditions are met.
The more than 7.5% of the relevant companys issued share capital in any fi first condition is that the company offers a facility for shareholders to rolling three-year period, other than to existing shareholders, without vote by electronic means.
This condition is met if the company offers a prior consultation with shareholders.
facility, accessible to all shareholders, to appoint a proxy by means of a website.
The second condition is that there is an annual resolution of The authority contained in Resolution 20 will expire upon the expiry of shareholders approving the reduction of the minimum notice period the general authority conferred by Resolution 19 i. e. at the end of the from 21 days to 14 days.
next Annual General Meeting of the company.
The board is therefore proposing Resolution 23 as a special resolution 8.
PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES RESOLUTION 21 to approve 14 days as the minimum period of notice for all general meetings of the company other than Annual General Meetings.
The Resolution 21 seeks to renew the companys authority to buy back approval will be effective until the companys next Annual General its own ordinary shares in the market as permitted by the Act.
The Meeting, when it is intended that the approval be renewed.
authority limits the number of shares that could be purchased to a The board will consider on a case by case basis whether the use of maximum of 155,159,000 representing a little less than 10% of the companys issued ordinary share capital as at 28 March 2014 the latest the fl exibility offered by the shorter notice period is merited, taking into account the circumstances, including whether the business of the practicable date prior to publication of the Notice of Annual General Meeting and sets minimum and maximum prices.
This authority will meeting is time sensitive, and will balance that against the need for shareholders to consider their voting decisions, particularly where the expire at the conclusion of the companys Annual General Meeting in 2015. proposals concerned are complex and may require more time for proper evaluation.
The directors have no present intention of exercising the authority to purchase the companys ordinary shares but will keep the matter under review, taking into account the fi financial resources of the company, the companys share price and future funding opportunities.
The authority will be exercised only if the directors believe that to do so would result in an increase in earnings per share and would be in the interests of shareholders generally.
No shares were purchased pursuant to the equivalent authority granted to the directors at the companys last Annual General Meeting.
As at 28 March 2014 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of Annual General Meeting, there were no options over the ordinary shares in the capital of the company.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 155 Recommendation and explanatory notes relating to business to be conducted at the Annual General Meeting on 5 June 2014 continued The number of shares subject to outstanding options or awards APPENDIX granted within the previous 10 years and the number of shares issued for the purpose of options and awards granted within the previous 10 SUMMARY OF THE G4S LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN years shall not exceed fi five per cent.
of the companys ordinary share THE LTIP capital in issue immediately prior to the proposed date of grant under Administration all discretionary employees share schemes adopted by the company.
Awards will be granted, and the LTIP will be administered, by the board, These limits do not include rights to shares which have been released, or a duly authorised committee of the board.
Awards for executive lapsed or otherwise become incapable of exercise or vesting.
Any directors will be determined and administered by the Remuneration option or award which the board has determined will only be satisfi ed Committee and references to the board shall mean the Remuneration with existing shares or which is granted on such terms, will not be Committee in respect of such awards.
subject to or counted in calculating the above limits.
Treasury shares will Eligibility count as new issue shares for the purpose of these limits for so long as Awards may be granted to any of the employees of the company or its institutional investor bodies consider that they should be so counted.
subsidiaries, including the executive directors.
Performance conditions Form of awards The board will determine the performance conditions which will apply to awards and which will be measured, ordinarily, over a period of Under the LTIP, awards will take the form of either: not less than three years or such shorter period as the board may a conditional right to receive shares which will be automatically determine to be appropriate on the recruitment of an employee.
transferred to the award holder following vesting a Conditional There will be no provision for re-testing.
The board may alter the Award : or performance conditions if events happen after the date of grant that an interest in shares which will be held on behalf of the award holder cause the board to consider that any element of the performance until vesting a Forfeitable Share Award.
The award holder will not condition is no longer a fair measure of the companys performance, be entitled to call for or otherwise deal in the shares subject to a provided that the revised target is not considered to be materially less Forfeitable Share Award prior to vesting.
Performance conditions proposed for executive directors are outlined in the companys remuneration policy, Timing of grant of awards and will be set out in the annual report on directors remuneration.
Awards under the LTIP may, save in exceptional circumstances, only be granted within a period of 42 days i commencing on the date of the Vesting adoption of the LTIP or ii following the date of announcement by Awards will normally only vest three years after the date of grant or the company of its interim or fi final results or as soon as practicable such earlier date as the board may determine to be appropriate on thereafter if the company is restricted from being able to grant awards the recruitment of an employee, while the award holder remains in during such period.
offi ce or employment with the group, and to the extent that relevant performance conditions have been met.
Awards under the LTIP may not be granted more than ten years after the rules are approved by shareholders of the company in For those awards that are to be granted in June 2014, the board has general meeting.
determined that any such awards will be treated as if they were granted in March 2014 both in respect of the vesting period and the share Non-Transferable and Non-Pensionable price that is to be used to calculate the number of shares over which Awards are non-transferable and do not form part of pensionable an award can be granted in order to bring these awards in line earnings.
with the companys usual grant cycle.
This is because the board Dividend equivalents has historically granted allocations under the companys existing Award holders may receive an additional payment or shares of Performance Share Plan in March each year, but as noted in paragraph equivalent value equal to the dividends during the vesting period 2 of the Explanatory Notes on page 154, the Performance Share Plan which would have been paid on the number of shares that vest.
Award will shortly be expiring and therefore new awards will be granted under holders shall not be, unless the board determines otherwise, entitled to the LTIP.
As the LTIP will not be adopted by the board until after it has receive any dividends paid in respect of shares subject to a Forfeitable been approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, awards Share Award.
under the LTIP cannot be granted until June 2014 at the earliest.
Individual limit If the board so determines, an award may be satisfi ed in whole or The maximum market value of the shares over which an employee in part by a cash payment as an alternative to the issue or transfer may be granted an award under the LTIP in any calendar year shall not of shares.
exceed an amount equal to 250 per cent.
of the employees gross Leavers annual basic salary at that time.
An award will normally lapse where the award holder ceases to hold Plan Limits offi ce or employment with the group.
Awards will not lapse on death Shares may be newly issued, transferred from treasury or market or where the cessation of offi ce or employment with the group is due purchased for the purposes of the LTIP.
to injury, disability, ill-health, redundancy, retirement, the transfer of the award holders employment in connection with a business sale, the The number of shares subject to outstanding options or awards company with which the award holder holds offi ce or employment granted within the previous 10 years and the number of shares issued ceasing to be a member of the group, or any other reason if the board for the purpose of options and awards granted within the previous so determines a Good Leaver.
10 years shall not exceed 10 per cent.
of the companys ordinary share capital in issue immediately prior to the proposed date of grant under Where an award holder ceases employment for a Good Leaver reason, all employees share schemes adopted by the company.
the award will continue and vest on its normal vesting date.
However, the board may determine that the award will instead vest on or at any time following the date of cessation.
On the death of a participant, an award shall immediately vest.
156 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate actions In the event of a change of control, awards will normally vest.
In the event of the passing of a resolution for the voluntary winding-up of the company, awards will vest.
In the event of a demerger of a substantial part of the groups business, a special dividend or a similar event affecting the value of the shares to a material extent, awards may be adjusted as set out below or the board may allow awards to vest.
Where the corporate action forms part of an internal re-organisation, unless the board determines otherwise, an award shall not vest, and instead will be rolled-over into an award over shares in the new controlling company of equivalent value.
Extent of vesting Awards will only vest including for leavers or on a corporate action to the extent that the relevant performance conditions have been satisfi ed.
Where an award vests prior to the normal vesting date, the board will assess performance using such information as it determines to be appropriate.
Where, prior to the normal vesting date, an award holder ceases employment for a Good Leaver reason or there is a corporate action, the number of shares in respect of which an award vests will, unless the board determines otherwise, be pro-rated on the basis of the number of whole months which have elapsed from grant to the date of cessation or the corporate action as applicable.
Variation of capital The number of shares subject to awards may be adjusted, in such manner as the board may determine, following any variation of share capital of the company, a demerger of a substantial part of the groups business, a special dividend or a similar event affecting the value of shares to a material extent.
Alterations The board may amend the LTIP rules as it considers appropriate, subject to any relevant legislation, provided that no modifi cation may be made which confers any additional advantage on participants relating to eligibility, plan limits, the basis of individual entitlement, the price payable for the acquisition of shares and the provisions for the adjustment of awards without prior shareholder approval, except in relation to performance conditions or minor amendments to benefi t the administration of the LTIP, to take account of a change in legislation, or to obtain or maintain favourable tax exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants or the company or other group companies.
Clawback The board may apply clawback where at any time before or within two years of vesting it determines that the fi financial results of the company were misstated, an error was made in any calculation or in assessing performance, which resulted in the number of shares in respect of which the award was granted or vested being more than it should have been.
The board may also apply a claw-back where the award holder has been dismissed for misconduct.
A clawback may be satisfi ed in a number of ways, including by reducing the amount of any future bonus, by reducing the vesting of any subsisting or future options or awards other than tax-advantaged options or awards, by reducing the number of shares under any vested but unexercised option and or by either one or both of a requirement to make a cash payment or transfer of shares to the company.
The clawback provisions will not apply following the occurrence of a takeover or similar corporate event.
Overseas plans The LTIP contains provisions which permit the board to establish further plans for the benefi t of overseas employees based on the LTIP but modifi ed as necessary or desirable to take account of overseas tax, exchange control or securities laws.
Any new shares issued under such plans would count towards the individual and overall plan limits outlined above.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 157
