strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts NOtes tO tHe GrOuP FiNaNciaL stateMeNts FOr tHe year eNded 30 JuNe 2013 1. reporting entity Genus plc the Company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is Belvedere House, Basing View, Basingstoke, Hampshire RG21 4HG.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic Review.
The Group Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2013 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the equity method is used to account for the Groups interests in joint ventures and associates.
Basis of preparation The Group Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The significant accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group Financial Statements.
Certain comparative amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation as described in the relevant notes.
restatement in the 2012 and 2011 balance sheet The balance sheet comparatives for the years ended 30 June 2012 and 30 June 2011 have been restated to recognise trade receivables due under royalty contract when they become receivable.
In order to rectify the position, the prior period balance sheet at 30 June 2012 has been restated in accordance with IAS 8, and, in accordance with IAS 1 revised, a balance sheet at 30 June 2011 is also presented together with related notes.
The amounts involved are an increase in trade receivables at 30 June 2012 of 3.7m 2011: 3.7m, an increase in deferred tax liabilities at 30 June 2012 of 1.3m 2011: 1.3m and an increase in shareholders equity at 30 June 2012 of 2.4m 2011: 2.4m.
There has been no effect on the income statement or cash flows recorded as a result of this restatement.
Functional and presentation currency The Group Financial Statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
All financial information presented in Sterling has been rounded to the nearest million at one decimal point.
Basis of measurement The Group Financial Statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the following, in accordance with IFRS: biological assets are measured at fair value less point-of-sale costs, which represent the costs of distribution and selling expenses: and derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
use of estimates The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
Information about significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amount recognised in the financial statements are described in note 4.
Going concern As set out in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, after reviewing the available information including the Groups business plans and after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
At 30 June 2013 the Group had net debt of 52.9m 2012: 56.4m and undrawn committed borrowing facilities of 63.7m.
In August 2013, the Group completed a bank refinancing exercise, which now includes an option to increase the existing credit facility by an additional US$50m.
The new credit facilities are now due to expire on 30 September 2017.
Whilst these facilities have certain financial covenants, they are not expected to prevent further utilisation of the facilities if required.
This, together with the maturity profile of debt, provides confidence that the Group has sufficient financial resources for the foreseeable future.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business despite the current uncertain economic environment.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|83 NOtes tO tHe GrOuP FiNaNciaL stateMeNts cONtiNued FOr tHe year eNded 30 JuNe 2013 2.
Basis of preparation continued Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The results of subsidiaries acquired are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
The results of subsidiaries sold cease to be consolidated from the date on which control passes.
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
The Group Financial Statements include the Groups share of the total recognised income and expense of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the Groups carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an associate.
Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
The Group Financial Statements include the Groups share of profit or loss arising from joint ventures.
Intra-Group balances and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions are eliminated in preparing the Group Financial Statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity accounted investees are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the investee.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Non-GaaP measures adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax and adjusted earnings per share Adjusted operating profit, adjusted operating profit before tax from continuing operations and adjusted earnings per share are defined before the net IAS 41 valuation movement on biological assets, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, share-based payment expense, exceptional items and other gains and losses.
These additional non-GAAP measures of operating performance are included as the Directors believe that they provide useful alternative measures for shareholders of the trading performance of the Group.
The reconciliation between operating profit from continuing operations and adjusted operating profit from continuing operations is shown on the face of the Group Income Statement.
Foreign currency Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in the functional currency of the relevant Group entity at the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date and the related foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised in the Group Income Statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill arising on consolidation, are translated into Sterling at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated at an average rate for the period.
Exchange differences arising from the translation into Sterling of foreign operations, and the fair value movement of related effective hedges, are taken to the foreign currency translation reserve.
They are released into the income statement upon disposal of the foreign operation.
Exchange movements on intercompany loans designated as long-term funding are taken to the foreign currency translation reserve, together with any related taxation.
The principal exchange rates were as follows: Average Closing 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 US Dollar 1.57 1.59 1.60 1.52 1.57 1.61 Euro 1.21 1.19 1.16 1.17 1.24 1.11 Brazilian Real 3.22 2.86 2.65 3.35 3.17 2.51 Mexican Peso 20.16 20.90 19.47 19.76 21.06 18.83 84|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts 3. significant accounting policies Business combinations All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
The cost of acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair value at the date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition related costs are recognised in the profit and loss as incurred.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities which meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture represents the excess of the cost of acquisition excluding transaction costs over the Groups interests in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
Identifiable assets include any intangible assets which could be sold separately or which arise from legal rights, regardless of whether those rights are separable.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
In respect of associates, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment in the associate.
As required by IAS 21, goodwill arising on acquisition of a foreign operation and any fair value adjustments made to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the acquired operation on acquisition are treated as assets and liabilities of the acquired entity rather than assets or liabilities of the acquiring entity, and are therefore expressed in the functional currency of the foreign operation and retranslated at the balance sheet date.
research and development Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
The Group constantly monitors its research activities and when research projects satisfy the condition for achieving technical feasibility and are commercially viable, the Groups policy is to capitalise further development costs in accordance with IAS 38.
The Groups development activities include the development and maintenance of the porcine genetic nucleus herd and the development and maintenance of bovine pre-stud herds.
The Group does not capitalise development expenditure separately for these herds as their fair value is included within the fair value of the Groups biological assets in accordance with IAS 41.
Other development costs are capitalised within intangible assets when the criteria of IAS 38 are met.
The Group discloses the costs incurred in research and herd development activities as required by IAS 38. exceptional items The Group presents items which the Directors believe to be exceptional in nature by virtue of their size or incidence asexceptional.
intangible assets Intangible assets acquired by the Group in a business combination subsequent to 1 April 2005 are identified and recognised separately from goodwill where they satisfy the definition of an intangible asset and their fair values can bemeasured reliably.
The cost of such intangible assets is their fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets acquired in a business combination are reported at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible assets acquired separately.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Software 2 to 10 years Porcine genetics technology 20 years Multiplier contracts 15 years Customer relationships 15 to 17 years intangible assets acquired separately Intangible assets acquired other than through a business combination are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment loss.
Amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
The estimated useful life and amortisation method are reviewed at the end of each annual reporting period, with the effect of any changes in estimate being accounted for on a prospective basis.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|85 NOtes tO tHe GrOuP FiNaNciaL stateMeNts cONtiNued FOr tHe year eNded 30 JuNe 2013 3. significant accounting policies continued impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups tangible and intangible assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount isestimated.
For goodwill, and tangible and intangible assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date.
The recoverable amount is the greater of their net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate of 11.4% 2012: 11.4%, the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
A premium is added to this rate to reflect the risk attributable to individual countries.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cashgenerating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to cash-generating units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro rata basis.
A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
reversals of impairment An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed when there is an indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist and there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Biological assets and inventories The principal activity of the Group during the period was the global application of quantitative genetics and biotechnology to animal breeding.
The Group utilises these techniques to identify and select animals that possess the genetics genes responsible for superior milk and meat quality, high health and performance traits.
Genus sells breeding animals and semen to customers who produce offspring which yield greater production efficiency, milk and meat quality for the global dairy and meat supply chain.
In bovine, research and development is used to identify genetically superior bulls in a number of breeds, but primarily the Holstein dairy breed.
Progeny testing of the performance of daughters for each bull selected measures their performance against those of their peers.
Semen from the best bulls is collected and frozen to satisfy customer demand.
Semen from dairy breeds is used by farmers to breed replacement milking stock.
Semen sold from beef breeds is used in either specialist beef breeding herds for multiplication of breeding bulls for use in natural service or on dairy cows to produce a by-product to be reared for meat.
Bovine biological assets are held for long-term internal use and are classified as non-current assets.
Bull semen is transferred to inventory at fair value at point of harvest, which becomes the deemed cost under IAS 2.
Inventories are stated at the lower of this deemed cost and net realisable value.
Since the sorting of semen is not a biological process but a production process, semen inventory transferred into sexed semen production is transferred at fair value at point of harvest less cost to sell and becomes a component of the production process.
Sexed semen is carried in finished goods at production cost.
In porcine, a central breeding stock the nucleus herd is maintained and developed to provide genetically superior animals.
The animal genetics offer the potential to improve profitability for farmer and food processing customers by enabling them to increase output of consistently high quality products yielding higher value.
To allow the Group to capitalise on its intellectual property the vast majority of production is outsourced to its global multiplier network.
Theoffspring or semen obtained from animals in the nucleus herd is sold to customers for use in commercial farming.
The sale of semen is far less common as porcine semen is sold fresh and has a short life when frozen.
Sales of porcine animals generally occur in one of two ways: upfront and royalty.
Under upfront sales, the full fair value of the animal is receivable at point of transfer to the customer.
Under royalty sales, the pig is regarded as comprising two separately identifiable components, its carcass and its inherent genetic potential.
The initial consideration, which approximates the carcass value of the animal, is receivable at the point that the pig is transferred to the customer.
The Group retains its interest in the genetic potential of the pig and consideration for the use of this genetic potential is received in the form of royalties.
The breeding animal biological assets owned by Genus and the retained interest in the biological assets sold under royalty contracts are recognised and measured at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement within operating profit for the period.
86|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts Porcine biological assets which are in use as breeding animals are classified as non-current assets and are carried at fair value.
Porcine biological assets held with an intention of resale, being the offspring of the breeding herd, are carried at fair value and classified as current assets.
The retained interest in the genetics from royalty sales is split between current and non-current assets based on the remaining expected life of the related animals.
determination of fair values biological assets As required by IAS 41 Agriculture, the Group shows the carrying value of biological assets in the Group Balance Sheet determined according to the provisions of IAS 41 with the net valuation movement shown in the income statement.
There are important differences in the manner in which the value of the Groups bovine and porcine assets are arrived at, as explained below.
Bovine the fair value of proven bulls, bulls with a genomic evaluation and bulls on test is based on expected future net cash flows from the sale of semen, the bulls harvest, and is discounted at a current market-determined pre-tax rate.
Proven bulls being those who have completed their evaluation and where the bulls semen is actively marketed, Genomic bulls are those marketed on an estimated genetic value.
The fair value of the bovine herd and semen inventory managed by the Group has been adjusted where a third party has a revenue share in the sale of semen from a particular bull.
The significant assumptions determining the fair values are the expected future demand for semen, estimated production value, the expected marketable life of each bull and, in addition for bulls on test, the percentage whose production is expected to be actively marketed.
In assessing the sales price, management uses statistical data for the bulls produced by independent authorities, in all its major markets, three times a year.
In addition, estimates are also used to determine into which markets the semen will be sold, and domestic and export prices.
The fair value of bulls that have not yet entered the Group testing programme is equivalent to their acquisition and rearing costs.
Porcine the fair values of porcine biological assets encompasses both the animals owned entirely by Genus and the retained interest in the genetics of those animals sold under royalty arrangements.
The fair value of animals owned by the Group is calculated using average live weights of the animals plus a premium where it is considered that they will be saleable for their favourable genetic characteristics.
The value attributed to the live weight of the pigs and the premium for genetics is based on recent transaction prices achieved by the Group.
The significant assumptions in determining fair values are the expected life of the breeding animals, the percentage of production animals which are expected to be saleable as breeding animals and the expected sales prices.
The fair value of the retained interest in the genetics of those animals sold under royalty contracts is initially based on the fair values achieved by the Group in recent transactions from direct sales of similar animals, less the values received upfront for the sale of the carcass element.
The fair value of the retained interest is remeasured at each reporting date.
The significant assumption in determining the fair value of the retained interest is the expected life of the animal transferred under royalty contracts.
The porcine animals within the pure line herds, being the repository of Genuss proprietary genetics, are valued as a single unit of account using a discounted cash flow model applied to the future outputs of the herds at current prices.
The significant assumptions are the number of future generations from which output is attributable to the current herds, the fair value prices achieved on sales, the expected useful lifespan and productivity of the animals, and the discount rate applied.
Non recognition of porcine multiplier contracts where no contractual interest is retained by the Group In order to manage commercial risk a very large part of the Groups porcine business model involves the sale of pigs to farmers multipliers who produce piglets on farms neither managed nor controlled by the Group.
The Group has the option to purchase the offspring at slaughter market value plus a premium but no obligation to do so.
The Group then has the ability to sell the offspring to other farmers at a premium because the offspring has superior genetics.
The right to purchase offspring is not recognised on the balance sheet as the contracts are entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt of non-financial items the offspring in accordance with the Groups expected purchase requirements.
As such the option is outside the scope of IAS 39.
The offspring are not recognised as biological assets under IAS 41 as they are neither owned nor controlled by the Group.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, together with any directly attributable expenses of acquisition, or at their latest valuation, less depreciation and any impairment losses.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
Land and assets not available for use are not depreciated.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Freehold land nil Freehold buildings 10 to 15 years Leasehold buildings over the term of the lease Plant and equipment 3 to 20 years Motor vehicles 3 to 5 years trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are stated at their nominal amount discounted if material less impairment losses.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|87 NOtes tO tHe GrOuP FiNaNciaL stateMeNts cONtiNued FOr tHe year eNded 30 JuNe 2013 3. significant accounting policies continued cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose only of the statement of cash flows.
interest-bearing loans and borrowings Interest-bearing loans and borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the expected life of the borrowings on an effective interest rate basis.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are discounted to present value.
revenue Revenue comprises the invoiced value of sales and royalties receivable from customers, net of trade discounts and value added tax.
The principal components of the Groups revenue and their respective accounting treatments are: Revenue from the sale of bovine and porcine semen, porcine breeding animals and veterinary products is recognised upon transfer of risks and rewards, either upon shipment to customers or delivery depending on the terms of sale.
Royalties are recognised when receivable.
Royalty payments are received from certain porcine customers based on key performance variables such as the number of pigs born per litter, the number of litters born per sow and the average slaughter weight of animal born.
Revenue from consulting services represents amounts charged for professional services provided during the year including recoverable expenses but excluding value added tax.
Services provided but not yet billed are recognised as revenue based on a fair value assessment of the work delivered and a contractual right to receive payment.
Where unbilled revenue is contingent on a future event, nothing is recognised until the contingent event crystallises.
Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are recognised directly in the income statement, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups general policy on borrowing costs see below.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Finance costs Interest income and interest payable are recognised in the income statement as they accrue.
Dividend income is recognised in the income statement on the date the entitys right to receive payments is established.
Finance costs that are directly attributable to construction of a qualifying asset, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
taxation Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity, or arises as a fair value adjustment in a business combination.
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or to be recovered using the tax rates and the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, together with any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years.
88|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
share-based payments In accordance with IFRS 2, the fair value of share awards and options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the vesting period of each option.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using a Binomial valuation model.
The fair value of the awards granted is measured using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the estimated performance against non-market related conditions and the number of share awards and options that actually vest at the end of the vesting period.
treasury shares Transactions, assets and liabilities of the Group-sponsored Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust QUEST are included in the Group Financial Statements.
In particular, the trusts purchases of shares in the Company remain deducted from shareholders equity until they vest unconditionally with employees.
retirement benefit obligations Defined contribution pension schemes A number of employees are members of defined contribution pension schemes.
Contributions are charged to the income statement as they become payable in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
Differences between contributions payable and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
The assets of these schemes are held separately from those of the Group.
Defined benefit pension schemes The Group operates defined benefit pension schemes for some of its employees, which are closed to new members.
The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit schemes is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
That benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets at bid price is deducted.
The liability discount rate is the market yield at the balance sheet date on high quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating to the Groups pension liabilities.
The calculations are performed by qualified actuaries using the projected unit market method.
Actuarial gains and losses including the difference between the expected and actual return on scheme assets and experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities are recognised in the period in which they occur directly into equity through the Group Statement of Changes in Equity.
Pension costs are recognised on a systematic basis to match the costs of providing retirement benefits evenly over the service lives of the employees concerned.
Any excess or deficiency of the actuarial value of assets over the actuarial value of liabilities is allocated over the average remaining service lives of current employees.
The retirement benefit obligations referred to in note 28 include obligations relating to the Milk Pension defined benefit scheme.
Genus, together with other participating employers, is joint and severally liable for the schemes obligations.
Genus accounts for its section and its share of any orphan assets and liabilities, together with a provision for any amounts it believes it will be required to pay under its joint and several liability.
As a result of the joint and several liability, Genus has a contingent liability for those of the schemes obligations that Genus has not accounted for.
Under the joint and several liability, the Group will recognise initially any changes in its share of any orphan assets and liabilities in the income statement.
Any actuarial gains and losses in the orphan assets and liabilities after the initial recognition will be recognised in the period in which they occur directly into equity through the Group Statement of Changes in Equity.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|89 NOtes tO tHe GrOuP FiNaNciaL stateMeNts cONtiNued FOr tHe year eNded 30 JuNe 2013 3. significant accounting policies continued derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate risk, foreign exchange rate risk and commodity prices.
The Group uses interest rate swaps to hedge interest rate risk, forward exchange contracts to manage foreign exchange risk and forward commodity contracts to manage commodity pricerisk.
The fair value interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap atthe balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts and forward commodity contracts are their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward price.
cash flow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset orliability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised in equity in the hedging reserve.
Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement.
Where a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, the associated gains and losses that were recognised directly in equity are recycled in the Group Income Statement in the same period or periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects the Group Income Statement, i. e. when interest income or expense is recognised.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement.
Net investment hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability of the net assets of an overseas subsidiary entity arising from the spot or forward exchange rate translation risk associated with the functional currency of overseas subsidiary entities, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument isrecognised directly in the hedging reserve.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity until such point as the investment to which it relates is disposed.
Net investment hedge accounting is applied solely in the Group Financial Statements.
New standards and interpretations adopted The following new standards and interpretations have been adopted in the current year but have not impacted the reported results or the financial position: IAS 12 Income Taxes The adoption of these new standards and interpretation has not changed any previously reported figures.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted At the date of authorisation of these Group Financial Statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in preparing these Group Financial Statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : Amendments to IAS 19, IAS 27, IAS 28 and IAS 32 IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Classification and Measurement IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities: and IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 90|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group, except as follows: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, which will introduce a number of changes in the presentation of financial instruments: and IAS 19 Employee Benefits will impact the measurement of the various components representing movements in the defined pension obligation and associated disclosures, but not the Groups total obligation.
Expected returns on plan assets will be replaced by a net finance cost in the income statement, consequently reducing the profit for the period by 3.7m and accordingly other comprehensive income increased by 3.7m.
A prior period restatement will reflect these amendments in next years annual report.
4. significant areas of judgement and determination of fair values Management consider the critical accounting policies and significant areas of judgement to be the following: determination of the fair value of biological assets The determination of the fair values of bovine and porcine biological assets requires the use of significant judgement and assumptions.
Bovine: The key judgements are in respect of the forecast sales volumes, the expected unit prices, the useful lifespan of the animals and the discount rate applied.
Porcine: The key judgements and assumptions are in respect of the useful lifespan of the animals, the expected proportion to slaughter, the mix of boars and gilts and, in the case of the animals within the pure line herds, the number of future generations from which output is attributable to the current herds, the fair value prices achieved on sales, the expected useful lifespan and the productivity of the animals, and the discount rate applied.
Fair value of assets and liabilities on business combinations The Groups accounting policy on the acquisition of subsidiaries is to determine the net fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired with the fair value of any consideration in excess of this amount representing goodwill.
In determining the fair values of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, the use of significant judgement and assumptions with respect to estimated future cash flows and unprovided liabilities and commitments, particularly to tax, are often involved.
The determination of the useful life of intangible assets, particularly on those arising on acquisition, involves the exercise of management judgement.
impairment of goodwill, intangible and tangible assets Determining whether goodwill, intangible and tangible assets are impaired requires a consideration of any specific impairment indicators and an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill, intangible and tangible assets have been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires the Directors to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and the appropriate discount rate in order to calculate present value.
See note 14. recognition of deferred tax assets In recognising income tax assets and liabilities, the Directors make estimates of the likely outcome of decisions by tax authorities on transactions and events whose treatment for tax purposes is uncertain.
In recognising deferred tax assets and liabilities management also makes judgements about likely future taxable profits.
When the final outcome of such matters, including the recognition of deferred tax assets on tax losses, is different, or expected to be different, from previous assessments by management, a change to the carrying value of income tax assets and liabilities will be recorded in the period in which such a determination is made.
See note 19. defined benefit pension scheme Amounts recorded in the financial statements in respect of defined benefit pension schemes are also based on significant estimates and judgement.
Details of estimates and judgements made in calculating these transactions are contained in note 28.
These include estimates and judgements as to the extent to which provisions should be made for any amounts that might become payable under the Groups joint and several liability in respect of the Milk Pension Fund.
share-based payments Amounts recorded in the financial statements in respect of share-based payments are also based on significant estimates and judgement.
Details of estimates and judgements made in calculating these transactions are contained in note 29.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|91 NOtes tO tHe GrOuP FiNaNciaL stateMeNts cONtiNued FOr tHe year eNded 30 JuNe 2013 5. segmental information The Group presents its segmental information on the basis reviewed regularly for assessing business performance and for the purposes of resource allocation, by the chief operating decision maker.
The Groups business is not highly seasonal and its customer base is diversified, with no individual customer generating in excess of 2% of revenue.
revenue 2013 2012 m m Genus PIC 133.5 137.2 Genus ABS 146.8 145.4 Genus Asia 55.5 48.2 Research and Development Research Porcine Product Development 9.5 11.0 Bovine Product Development 9.5 11.0 345.3 341.8 Operating profit by segment and a reconciliation to adjusted operating profit for the Group is set out below.
Areconciliation of adjusted operating profit to profit for the year is shown on the Group Income Statement.
Details of these exceptional items are given in note 7.
Share-based payments are considered on a Group-wide basis and are therefore not allocated to reportable segments.
In the prior year an exceptional credit of 23.0m which arose as a result of a change in the basis of calculating the value of the Groups porcine pure line breeding animals under IAS 41 relates to Porcine Product Development.
Geographical information The following is an analysis of the Groups revenue by geographical segments: Revenue 2013 2012 m m North America 127.5 126.2 Latin America 47.9 51.7 Europe 114.4 115.7 Asia 55.5 48.2 345.3 341.8 Non-current assets excluding deferred taxation and financial instruments 2013 2012 m m North America 274.8 253.0 Latin America 40.8 51.7 Europe 82.3 89.1 Asia 18.7 17.8 416.6 411.6 6. revenue 2013 2012 m m Sale of animals, semen and veterinary products 275.1 276.0 Royalties 62.4 57.6 Consulting services 7.8 8.2 345.3 341.8 Interest income see note 10 0.8 1.1 Total 346.1 342.9 Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|93 NOtes tO tHe GrOuP FiNaNciaL stateMeNts cONtiNued FOr tHe year eNded 30 JuNe 2013 7. exceptional items Operating income expenses : 2013 2012 m m Release additional pension provision 7.0 20.1 Integration and restructuring 2.8 2.0 Other exceptional items 4.2 22.1 Exceptional credit IAS 41 see note 15 23.0 Total exceptional items 4.2 0.9 During the year, the multi-employer Milk Pension Fund MPF triennial valuation as at 31 March 2012 was completed and a new funding agreement between the employers was agreed.
In addition, two participating employers exited the scheme and made cash payments of 31m.
These changes gave rise to an exceptional credit of 7.0m.
This credit reflects Genuss share of deficit repair contributions agreed in the valuation and the effect of the two employers exits, compared with the pension provision of 20.1m made in the previous year to recognise the risk that some employers could be unable to meet their share of the deficit.
The integration and restructuring charge of 2.8m 2012: 2.0m relates principally to a refocusing of the European porcine business as it continued to reduce direct farm operations, whilst widening its restructuring programme in line with the Groups global strategy.
The fundamental aims of the restructure were to increase the rate of genetic progress, and to tailor the business model to meet the current and emerging needs of our customers.
Where the business was historically split by country, this was reorganised into four distinct regions based on customer behaviours and the physical cross-border flow of animals.
At the same time support services such as supply chain, technical service and genetic services have been centralised, ensuring improved alignment to long-term goals.
In the prior year an exceptional credit of 23.0m arose as a result of a change in the basis of calculating the value of the Groups porcine pure line breeding animals under IAS 41.
This change has increased the carrying value of biological assets under IAS 41 but has no cash impact.
The pure line assets were previously valued by applying fair values of the nearest similar assets.
The new methodology employs a discounted cash flow calculation applied to the expected output of each herd of breeding animals as a whole.
This is considered to be a more relevant basis of estimating the fair value of the pure line assets.
Operating profit Operating costs comprise: 2013 2012 m m Cost of sales excluding net IAS 41 valuation movement on biological assets and amortisation of multiplier contract intangible assets 140.4 141.0 Net IAS 41 valuation movement on biological assets includes exceptional credit of nil 2012: 23.0m 4.9 38.8 Amortisation of multiplier contract intangible assets 0.2 0.2 Cost of goods 145.5 102.4 Other cost of sales 80.2 82.0 Amortisation of customer relationship intangible assets 3.0 3.0 Cost of sales 83.2 85.0 Research and Development expenditure 28.0 25.1 Amortisation of technology intangible assets 2.0 2.0 Research and Development costs 30.0 27.1 Administrative expenses 50.2 47.3 Share-based payment expense 2.8 3.1 Amortisation of software 0.6 0.6 Exceptional items within administrative expenses 4.2 22.1 Total administrative expenses 49.4 73.1 Total operating costs 308.1 287.6 94|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts Profit for the year is stated after charging crediting : 2013 2012 m m Net foreign exchange losses 0.1 0.3 Depreciation of owned fixed assets 4.3 4.5 Depreciation of assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 1.0 0.6 Gain on disposal of fixed assets 0.3 Operating lease rentals plant and machinery 0.9 1.4 other 6.3 5.6 Employee costs see note 9 97.2 95.0 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 58.7 54.6 Auditors remuneration is as follows: 2013 2012 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys Annual Report and Financial Statements 0.1 0.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and associates for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.5 0.4 Total audit fees 0.6 0.5 Tax services 0.2 0.5 Other services 0.2 0.1 Total non-audit fees 0.4 0.6 Total fees to the Groups auditor 1.0 1.1 Fees payable to other auditors of Group companies 0.1 Non-audit services principally comprise tax advisory and tax compliance support services.
These services fall within the non-audit services policy approved by the Companys Audit Committee.
9. employee costs Employee costs, including Directors remuneration but excluding exceptional items, during the year amounted to: 2013 2012 m m Wages and salaries 86.4 83.8 Social security costs 6.7 7.1 Contributions to defined contribution pension plans 1.8 1.6 Income expenses related to defined benefit pension plans 0.1 0.1 Share-based payment expense 2.4 2.4 97.2 95.0 The average monthly number of employees, including Executive Directors, during the year was as follows: 2013 2012 Number Number Genus PIC 507 504 Genus ABS 1,138 1,202 Genus Asia 382 367 Research and Development 77 78 Central 38 38 2,142 2,189 Included in the totals above: UK 656 694 Details of Directors remuneration, pensions and share options are included in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|95 NOtes tO tHe GrOuP FiNaNciaL stateMeNts cONtiNued FOr tHe year eNded 30 JuNe 2013 10.
Net finance costs 2013 2012 m m Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 1.6 1.9 Amortisation of debt issue costs 0.5 0.5 Other interest payable 0.1 0.2 Net interest cost on derivative financial instruments 0.5 0.6 Total interest expense 2.7 3.2 Interest income on bank deposits 0.1 0.2 Net interest income in respect of pension scheme liabilities 0.7 0.9 Total interest income 0.8 1.1 Net finance costs 1.9 2.1 11. income tax expense 2013 2012 m m Current tax expense Current period 12.3 9.9 Adjustment for prior periods 0.3 1.5 Total current tax expense in the Group Income Statement 12.0 8.4 Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences see note 19 0.9 8.1 Adjustment for prior periods 1.7 Total deferred tax income expense in the Group Income Statement 0.9 6.4 Total income tax expense excluding share of income tax of equity accounted investees 11.1 14.8 Share of income tax of equity accounted investees 0.6 0.6 Total income tax expense in the Group Income Statement 11.7 15.4 reconciliation of effective tax rate 2013 2013 2012 2012 % m % m Profit before tax 38.1 54.4 Income tax at UK corporation tax of 23.75% 2012: 25.5% 23.75 9.0 25.50 13.9 Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 8.10 3.1 12.50 6.8 Non-deductible expenses 2.90 1.1 2.00 1.1 Tax exempt income and incentives 5.80 2.2 3.10 1.7 Change in tax rate 2.10 0.8 4.20 2.3 Movements in recognition of tax losses 3.10 1.2 1.70 0.9 Change in unrecognised temporary differences 1.45 0.6 0.60 0.3 Tax over provided in prior periods 0.70 0.3 5.90 3.2 Tax on undistributed reserves 0.40 0.2 Total income tax expense in the Group Income Statement 30.70 11.7 28.30 15.4 The tax rate for the year depends upon the mix of profits by country, particularly upon the high level of profits generated in North America, and the ability of the Group to recognise deferred tax assets in respect of losses in some of the Groups smaller territories.
The prior year deferred tax credit in the prior year principally arises from a reassessment of the underlying US tax rate applicable to the future taxation of the Groups biological assets in that territory.
The tax expense attributable to exceptional items is 1.3m 2012: 2.6m.
96|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts income tax recognised directly in equity Tax in relation to: 2013 2012 m m Foreign exchange differences on long-term intra-Group currency loans 0.2 0.3 Gain on financial instruments 0.1 Actuarial movement on retirement benefit obligations 1.4 6.4 Translation of biological assets, intangible assets and finance leases 3.2 0.9 Income tax on income and expense recognised directly in equity 1.7 5.2 Share-based payment expense 0.6 0.4 Total income tax recognised directly in equity 1.1 5.6 12. dividends Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: 2013 2012 m m Final dividend For the year ended 30 June 2011 of 13.3 pence per share 8.0 For the year ended 30 June 2012 of 10.1 pence per share 6.1 Interim dividend For the year ended 30 June 2012 of 4.5 pence per share 2.7 For the year ended 30 June 2013 of 5.0 pence per share 3.0 9.1 10.7 A final dividend of 11.1 pence per share has been proposed by the Directors for 2013.
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and therefore has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
13. earnings per share Basic earnings per share from continuing operations 2013 2012 Basic earnings per share 44.7p 65.9p The calculation of basic earnings per share from continuing operations for the year ended 30 June 2013 is based on the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders from continuing operations of 27.0m 2012: 39.6m and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding of 60,344,000 2012: 60,055,000, calculated as follows: weighted average number of ordinary shares basic 2013 2012 000s 000s Issued ordinary shares at start of the year 60,296 59,933 Effect of own shares held 204 148 Shares issued on exercise of stock options 100 37 Shares issued in relation to Employee Benefit Trust 152 233 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in year 60,344 60,055 Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|97 NOtes tO tHe GrOuP FiNaNciaL stateMeNts cONtiNued FOr tHe year eNded 30 JuNe 2013 13. earnings per share continued diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 2013 2012 Diluted earnings per share 44.3p 65.0p The calculation of diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the year ended 30 June 2013 is based on profit attributable to ordinary shareholders from continuing operations of 27.0m 2012: 39.6m and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding after adjustment for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares of 60,952,000 2012: 60,883,000, calculated as follows: weighted average number of ordinary shares diluted 2013 2012 000s 000s Weighted average number of ordinary shares basic 60,344 60,055 Dilutive effect of share options 608 828 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 60,952 60,883 adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations 2013 2012 Adjusted earnings per share 55.0p 53.5p Diluted adjusted earnings per share 54.3p 52.7p Adjusted earnings per share is calculated on profit before net IAS 41 valuation movement on biological assets, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, share-based payment expense and exceptional items after charging taxation associated with those profits, of 33.2m 2012: 32.1m as follows: 2013 2012 m m Profit before tax from continuing operations 38.1 54.4 Add deduct : Net IAS 41 valuation movement on biological assets 4.9 38.8 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 5.2 5.2 Share-based payment expense 2.8 3.1 Release additional pension provision 7.0 20.1 Integration and restructuring costs 2.8 2.0 Net IAS 41 valuation movement on biological assets in joint ventures and associates 0.2 0.1 Tax on joint ventures and associates 0.6 0.6 Adjusted profit before tax 47.2 46.5 Adjusted tax charge 14.0 14.4 Adjusted profit after taxation 33.2 32.1 Effective tax rate on adjusted profit 29.7% 31.0% 98|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts 14. intangible assets Separately identified Porcine acquired genetics Multiplier Customer intangible technology contracts relationships assets Software Other Total Goodwill m m m m m m m m Cost Balance at 1 July 2011 40.4 3.8 54.2 98.4 6.5 3.0 107.9 68.3 Additions 1.8 1.8 On acquisition 0.2 Effect of movements in exchange rates 0.1 0.4 0.5 0.1 0.4 2.1 Balance at 30 June 2012 40.4 3.7 53.8 97.9 6.6 4.8 109.3 66.4 Additions 1.9 1.9 Effect of movements in exchange rates 0.2 1.5 1.7 0.1 1.8 1.4 Balance at 30 June 2013 40.4 3.9 55.3 99.6 6.7 6.7 113.0 67.8 Amortisation and impairment losses Balance at 1 July 2011 11.2 1.2 17.9 30.3 2.0 32.3 Amortisation for the year 2.0 0.2 3.0 5.2 0.6 5.8 Effect of movements in exchange rates Balance at 30 June 2012 13.2 1.4 20.9 35.5 2.6 38.1 Amortisation for the year 2.0 0.2 3.0 5.2 0.6 5.8 Effect of movements in exchange rates 0.1 0.7 0.8 0.8 Balance at 30 June 2013 15.2 1.7 24.6 41.5 3.2 44.7 Carrying amounts At 30 June 2013 25.2 2.2 30.7 58.1 3.5 6.7 68.3 67.8 At 30 June 2012 27.2 2.3 32.9 62.4 4.0 4.8 71.2 66.4 At 30 June 2011 29.2 2.6 36.3 68.1 4.5 3.0 75.6 68.3 Additions in the year to intangible assets of 1.9m relates to costs capitalised in respect of a development project.
impairment testing for cash-generating units containing goodwill For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Groups operating segments which represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
The aggregate carrying amounts of goodwill allocated to each operating segment are as follows: 2013 2012 m m Genus PIC 44.5 43.7 Genus ABS 16.1 15.3 Genus Asia 7.2 7.4 67.8 66.4 The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might beimpaired.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|99 NOtes tO tHe GrOuP FiNaNciaL stateMeNts cONtiNued FOr tHe year eNded 30 JuNe 2013 14. intangible assets continued The recoverable amount of the cash-generating units is determined from value in use calculations.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations of cash-generating units are those regarding discount rates, growth rates, expected changes to selling prices and direct costs.
Management has estimated the discount rate using the Groups weighted average cost of capital WACC, changes in selling prices and direct costs, which are based on past experience and expectations of future changes in the market.
The Group prepares cash flows derived from the most recent financial and strategic plans approved by management for the next five years, and extrapolates cash flows using estimated growth rates beyond this period.
Annual growth rates ranging from 1.2% to 27.5% have been applied to cash flows in the five-year financial and strategic planning period.
A growth rate of 2.5% 2012: 2.5% has been used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the budget and strategic planperiod.
The post-tax WACC of 8.0% 2012: 8.0% has been applied to cash flow projections, which equates to a pre-tax rate of approximately 11.4% 2012: 11.4%.
The discount rate has been risk adjusted for Latin America and Asia, with an additional premium of 1% to 3% added to the WACC, respectively.
Biological assets Fair value of biological assets Bovine Porcine Total m m m Non-current biological assets 139.7 47.3 187.0 Current biological assets 27.3 27.3 Balance at 30 June 2011 139.7 74.6 214.3 Increases due to purchases 4.2 91.9 96.1 Decreases attributable to sales 141.5 141.5 Decrease due to harvest 21.1 8.6 29.7 Changes in fair value less estimated sale costs 26.7 90.7 117.4 Effect of movements in exchange rates 2.7 0.5 3.2 Balance at 30 June 2012 152.2 107.6 259.8 Non-current biological assets 152.2 70.8 223.0 Current biological assets 36.8 36.8 Balance at 30 June 2012 152.2 107.6 259.8 Increases due to purchases 5.4 89.0 94.4 Decreases attributable to sales 131.2 131.2 Decrease due to harvest 27.2 9.4 36.6 Changes in fair value less estimated sale costs 12.2 57.5 69.7 Effect of movements in exchange rates 4.4 4.0 8.4 Balance at 30 June 2013 147.0 117.5 264.5 Non-current biological assets 147.0 77.0 224.0 Current biological assets 40.5 40.5 Balance at 30 June 2013 147.0 117.5 264.5 Bovine biological assets include 3.2m 2012: 1.6m representing the fair value of bulls owned by third parties but managed by the Group, net of expected future payments to such third parties and are therefore treated as assets held under finance leases.
There are no movements in the carrying value of the bovine biological assets in respect of sales or other changes during the year.
The current market determined post-tax rate used to discount expected future net cash flows from the sale of bull semen is the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
Decreases due to harvest represent the semen extracted from the biological assets.
Inventories of such semen are shown as biological asset harvest in note 20.
100|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts Porcine biological assets include 36.9m 2012: 41.4m relating to the fair value of the retained interest in the genetics in respect of animals transferred to customers under royalty contracts.
Total revenue in the period includes 73.0m 2012: 73.2m in respect of these contracts comprising 10.6m 2012: 15.6m on initial transfer of animals to customers and 62.4m 2012: 57.6m in respect of royalties received.
Decreases attributable to sales during the period of 131.2m 2012: 141.5m include 28.9m 2012: 31.9m in respect of the reduction in fair value of the retained interest in the genetics of animals sold under royalty contracts.
For pure line porcine herds, the net cash flows from the expected output of the herds are discounted at the Groups required rate of return adjusted for the greater risk implicit in including output from future generations.
This adjusted rate has been assessed as 11.0% 2012: 11.0%.
The number of future generations which have been taken into account is seven 2012: seven and their estimated useful lifespan is 1.4 years 2012: 1.4 years.
Included in increases due to purchases, the aggregate gain arising during the period on initial recognition of biological assets in respect of multiplier purchases was 28.9m 2012: 29.7m.
year ended 30 June 2013 Bovine Porcine Total m m m Net IAS 41 valuation movement on biological assets Changes in fair value of biological assets 12.2 57.5 69.7 Inventory transferred to cost of sales at fair value 21.5 9.4 30.9 Biological assets transferred to cost of sales at fair value 43.7 43.7 9.3 4.4 4.9 year ended 30 June 2012 Bovine Porcine Total m m m Net IAS 41 valuation movement on biological assets Changes in fair value of biological assets 26.7 91.9 118.6 Inventory transferred to cost of sales at fair value 18.7 8.6 27.3 Biological assets transferred to cost of sales at fair value 52.5 52.5 8.0 30.8 38.8 This represents the difference between operating profit prepared under IAS 41 and operating profit prepared under historical cost accounting, which forms part of the reconciliation to adjusted operating profit.
An exceptional credit of 23.0m arose in 2012 as a result of a change in the basis of calculating the value of the Groups porcine pure line breeding animals under IAS 41.
additional information 2013 2012 Bovine Quantities at period end Number of proven bulls 282 288 Number of genomic bulls 84 63 Total number of marketable bulls in stud 366 351 Number of doses of semen in inventory stud 8.8m 8.4m Total number of bulls in development 1,648 1,701 Number of doses of semen in inventory bulls in development 1.9m 1.9m Amounts during the year Fair value of agricultural produce semen, harvested during the period 27.1m 21.1m Porcine Quantities at period end Number of pigs own farms 136,201 133,295 Number of pigs despatched on a royalty basis and valued at fair value 40,560 60,273 Amounts during the year Fair value of agricultural produce semen, harvested during the period 9.4m 8.6m Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|101 NOtes tO tHe GrOuP FiNaNciaL stateMeNts cONtiNued FOr tHe year eNded 30 JuNe 2013 16.
Property, plant and equipment Plant, motor Land and vehicles and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost or deemed cost Balance at 1 July 2011 34.2 31.3 65.5 Additions 2.1 6.4 8.5 Disposals 0.6 2.1 2.7 Effect of movements in exchange rates 0.5 0.3 0.8 Balance at 30 June 2012 35.2 35.3 70.5 Additions 2.3 6.4 8.7 Disposals 1.6 2.5 4.1 Effect of movements in exchange rates 0.9 1.0 1.9 Balance at 30 June 2013 36.8 40.2 77.0 Depreciation and impairment losses Balance at 1 July 2011 8.4 16.3 24.7 Depreciation for the year 1.8 3.3 5.1 Disposals 0.4 1.3 1.7 Impairment 1.0 1.0 Effect of movements in exchange rates 0.3 0.3 Balance at 30 June 2012 10.8 18.0 28.8 Depreciation for the year 1.9 3.4 5.3 Disposals 1.1 2.1 3.2 Effect of movements in exchange rates 0.5 0.6 1.1 Balance at 30 June 2013 12.1 19.9 32.0 Carrying amounts At 30 June 2013 24.7 20.3 45.0 At 30 June 2012 24.4 17.3 41.7 At 30 June 2011 25.8 15.0 40.8 Leased plant and machinery At 30 June 2013 plant, motor vehicles and equipment included assets held under finance leases with a carrying value of 6.2m 2012: 4.7m, 2011: 4.2m.
The associated depreciation charge for the year was 1.0m 2012: 0.6m, 2011: 0.5m.
17. equity accounted investees The Groups share of profit after tax in its equity accounted investees for the year was 2.8m 2012: 2.3m.
The carrying value of the investment is reconciled as follows: 2013 2012 m m Balance at 1 July 9.2 8.5 Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and associate retained 2.8 2.3 Dividends received 0.6 0.5 Effect of movements in exchange rates 1.1 Balance at 30 June 11.4 9.2 102|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts Summary financial information for equity accounted investees, adjusted for the percentage ownership held by the Group: year ended 30 June 2013 Current Non-current Biological Total Current Total Net assets assets assets assets liabilities liabilities assets Net assets Ownership m m m m m m m Agroceres PIC Suinos Brazil 49% 3.5 3.6 3.1 10.2 1.1 1.1 9.1 Hybridschweine Cooperations GmbH Germany 50% 0.2 0.2 0.2 Hu Mei Pig Improvement Company Ltd China 50% 2.1 2.1 2.1 5.8 3.6 3.1 12.5 1.1 1.1 11.4 Net IAS 41 valuation movement on biological Operating Profit Revenue assets Expenses profit Taxation after tax Income statement Ownership m m m m m m Agroceres PIC Suinos Brazil 49% 10.5 0.2 8.3 2.4 0.6 1.8 Hybridschweine Cooperations GmbH Germany 50% 5.6 5.5 0.1 0.1 Hu Mei Pig Improvement Company Ltd China 50% 3.0 2.1 0.9 0.9 19.1 0.2 15.9 3.4 0.6 2.8 year ended 30 June 2012 Current Non-current Biological Total Current Total Net assets assets assets assets liabilities liabilities assets Net assets Ownership m m m m m m m Agroceres PIC Suinos Brazil 49% 3.0 2.9 2.8 8.7 0.8 0.8 7.9 Hybridschweine Cooperations GmbH Germany 50% 0.2 0.2 0.2 Hu Mei Pig Improvement Company Ltd China 50% 1.1 1.1 1.1 4.3 2.9 2.8 10.0 0.8 0.8 9.2 Net IAS 41 valuation movement on biological Operating Profit Revenue assets Expenses profit Taxation after tax Income statement Ownership m m m m m m Agroceres PIC Suinos Brazil 49% 9.3 0.1 7.3 2.1 0.6 1.5 Hybridschweine Cooperations GmbH Germany 50% 7.7 7.6 0.1 0.1 Hu Mei Pig Improvement Company Ltd China 50% 3.2 2.5 0.7 0.7 20.2 0.1 17.4 2.9 0.6 2.3 Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|103 NOtes tO tHe GrOuP FiNaNciaL stateMeNts cONtiNued FOr tHe year eNded 30 JuNe 2013 18. available for sale investments 2013 2012 m m Fair value 0.1 0.1 Available for sale investments are in respect of unlisted trade related investments.
19. deferred tax assets and liabilities unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses with a potential tax benefit of 13.3m 2012: 11.6m available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of 0.5m 2012: 0.6m ofsuch losses.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining 12.8m 2012: 11.0m due to the uncertainty over the availability of future taxable profits in the relevant jurisdictions.
Deferred tax liabilities totalling 4.3m 2012: 3.0m have not been recognised for the withholding tax and other taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain overseas subsidiaries.
No provision is required since the Group is in a position to control the timing and reversal of these differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: Assets Liabilities Net 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.1 5.6 6.0 5.5 5.9 Intangible assets 0.6 20.5 22.0 20.5 21.4 Biological assets 87.7 86.0 87.7 86.0 Financial instruments 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.2 Retirement benefit obligations 13.2 14.4 1.9 1.9 15.1 16.3 Share-based payments 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 Short-term timing differences 4.9 5.6 1.2 2.7 3.7 2.9 Tax loss carry-forwards 0.5 0.6 0.5 0.6 Net tax assets liabilities 20.4 23.1 113.1 114.8 92.7 91.7 Deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset above to the extent that they arise in the same tax jurisdiction.
The Finance Act 2012, which provides for a reduction in the main rate of corporation tax from 24% to 23% effective from 1 April 2013, was substantively enacted on 3 July 2012.
This rate reduction has been reflected in the calculation of deferred tax at the balance sheet date.
The Government has enacted future reduction in the main tax rate down to 21% effective from 1 April 2014 and to 20% by 1 April 2015.
As these tax rates were not substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, the rate reduction is not yet reflected in these financial statements in accordance with IAS 10, as it is a non-adjusting event occurring after the reporting period.
We estimate that the future rate change to 20% would further reduce our UK deferred tax asset recognised at 30 June 2013 from 7.2m to 6.4m.
The actual impact will be dependent on our deferred tax position at that time.
Movement in net deferred tax liabilities during the year Balance Changes Prior year Balance brought in tax rate adjustments carried forward Recognised recognised recognised Foreign forward 1 July in income in income in income Recognised exchange 30 June 2012 statement statement statement in equity difference 2013 m m m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 5.9 0.4 5.5 Intangible assets 21.4 0.8 0.4 0.3 20.5 Biological assets 86.0 1.5 0.4 0.8 2.8 87.7 Financial instruments 0.2 0.1 0.1 Retirement benefit obligations 16.3 2.6 1.4 15.1 Share-based payments 1.6 1.6 Short-term timing differences 2.9 0.4 0.5 0.1 3.7 Tax loss carry-forwards 0.6 0.4 0.3 0.5 91.7 0.1 0.8 1.8 0.1 92.7 104|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts Balance Changes Prior year Balance brought in tax rate adjustments carried forward Recognised recognised recognised Foreign forward 1 July in income in income in income Recognised exchange 30 June 2011 statement statement statement in equity difference 2012 m m m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 5.6 0.2 0.1 5.9 Intangible assets 23.1 1.0 0.6 0.1 21.4 Biological assets 76.0 13.9 2.5 2.5 1.1 86.0 Financial instruments 0.1 0.1 0.2 Retirement benefit obligations 6.1 4.3 0.5 6.4 16.3 Share-based payments 1.6 0.1 0.1 1.6 Short-term timing differences 4.0 0.3 0.1 1.1 0.1 0.1 2.9 Tax loss carry-forwards 2.3 1.9 0.1 0.3 0.6 90.6 10.5 2.4 1.7 6.5 1.2 91.7 See note 2 for details of restatement to the 2012 and 2011 balance sheets.
20. inventories 2013 2012 m m Biological assets harvest classed as inventories 24.5 22.4 Raw materials and consumables 0.8 0.8 Goods held for resale 9.6 7.0 34.9 30.2 21. trade and other receivables 2013 2012 2011 m m m Trade receivables 63.6 60.5 59.9 Other debtors 9.9 5.1 3.8 Prepayments and accrued income 3.9 2.9 2.5 Other taxes and social security 1.5 1.7 2.5 78.9 70.2 68.7 See note 2 for details of restatement to the 2012 and 2011 balance sheets.
trade receivables The average credit period taken on the sales of goods is 67 days 2012: 65 days, 2011: 69 days.
No interest is charged on receivables for the first 30 days from the date of the invoice.
The Group provides for all receivables based upon knowledge of the customer and historical experience and estimates irrecoverable amounts by reference to past default experience.
There are no customers who represent more than 5% of the total balance of trade receivables 2012: nil, 2011: nil.
At 30 June 2013 45.3m 2012: 44.4m, 2011: 44.4m of trade receivables were not yet due for payment.
Included in the Groups trade receivables balance are debtors with a carrying amount of 18.7m 2012: 16.5m, 2011:15.8m which are past due at the reporting date for which the Group has not provided as there has not been asignificant change in credit quality and the amounts are still considered recoverable.
The Group does not hold anycollateral over these balances.
The average age of these receivables is 65 days 2012: 59 days, 2011: 60 days.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|105 NOtes tO tHe GrOuP FiNaNciaL stateMeNts cONtiNued FOr tHe year eNded 30 JuNe 2013 21. trade and other receivables continued Ageing of trade receivables that are past due and presented net of provisions that have been established: 2013 2012 2011 m m m 030 days 8.3 8.2 7.6 3190 days 6.2 5.0 5.1 91180 days 2.3 1.9 1.8 Over 180 days 1.9 1.4 1.3 18.7 16.5 15.8 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
At 30 June 2013 trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for doubtful debts of 3.1m 2012: 3.5m, 2011: 3.5m.
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts 2013 2012 2011 m m m Balance at the beginning of the year 3.5 3.5 3.3 Impairment losses recognised 0.6 0.9 1.6 Amounts written off as uncollectible 0.6 0.4 0.7 Impairment losses reversed 0.5 0.3 0.8 Effect of movements in exchange rates 0.1 0.2 0.1 Balance at the end of the year 3.1 3.5 3.5 In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date.
The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large and unrelated.
The impairment recognised represents the difference between the carrying amount of these trade receivables and the present value of expected proceeds.
The Group does not hold any collateral over these balances.
Receivables denominated in currencies other than Sterling comprise 18.3m of receivables denominated in US Dollars 2012: 16.6m, 2011: 11.9m, 10.4m of receivables denominated in Euros 2012: 9.3m, 2011: 11.0m and 19.7m of receivables denominated in other currencies 2012: 21.2m, 2011: 29.1m.
Other debtors Included within other debtors is 3.4m 2012: nil which relates to the Besun Joint Venture farm stocking.
22. cash and cash equivalents 2013 2012 m m Bank balances 18.4 18.6 Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
Included within bank balances above is 1.5m 2012: 4.4m which is subject to certain local restrictions.
The majority is held in China for future investment.
23. trade and other payables 2013 2012 m m Trade payables 18.1 14.9 Other payables and accrued expenses 29.0 28.1 Other taxes and social security 4.6 5.9 51.7 48.9 Payables denominated in currencies other than Sterling comprise 11.8m of payables denominated in US Dollars 2012:11.1m, 10.1m of payables denominated in Euros 2012: 9.3m and 19.4m of payables denominated in other currencies 2012: 19.1m.
The carrying values of these liabilities are a reasonable approximation of their fair values.
106|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts 24.
Provisions Onerous property Other leases provisions Total m m m Balance at 30 June 2011 1.4 1.4 Reclassified from accruals 0.7 0.7 Additional provision in the year 1.1 1.1 Utilisation of provision 0.2 0.6 0.8 Unwinding of discount 0.1 0.1 Balance at 30 June 2012 1.3 1.2 2.5 Additional provision in the year 0.2 0.2 Utilisation of provision 0.3 1.0 1.3 Release of provision 0.3 0.3 Unwinding of discount 0.1 0.1 Balance at 30 June 2013 0.8 0.4 1.2 2013 2012 m m Non-current 1.1 1.1 Current 0.1 1.4 Balance at 30 June 1.2 2.5 The onerous property provision represents the discounted future costs of properties not occupied by the Group.
These costs are computed net of risk weighted rental income and, where necessary, dilapidation and letting expenses and the provision is expected to be utilised over the next two years.
Financial instruments capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 26, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in note 30.
Gearing ratio The Group keeps its capital structure under review.
The gearing ratio at the year end is as follows: 2013 2012 m m Debt 71.3 75.0 Cash and cash equivalents 18.4 18.6 Net debt 52.9 56.4 Equity 300.5 278.0 Net debt to equity ratio 18% 20% Debt is defined as long and short-term borrowings, as detailed in note 26.
Equity includes all capital and reserves of the Group attributable to equity holders of the parent.
externally imposed capital requirement The Group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
significant accounting policies Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in note 3 to the financial statements.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|107 NOtes tO tHe GrOuP FiNaNciaL stateMeNts cONtiNued FOr tHe year eNded 30 JuNe 2013 25.
Financial instruments continued significant accounting policies continued For those financial instruments held at valuation, the Group has categorised them into a three level fair value hierarchy based on the priority of the inputs to the valuation technique in accordance with IFRS 7.
The hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs Level 3.
If the inputs used to measure fair value fall within different levels of the hierarchy, the category level is based on the lowest priority level input that is significant to the fair value measurement of the instrument in its entirety.
The fair values of the Groups outstanding interest rate swaps have been estimated by calculating the present value of future cash flows, using appropriate market discount rates, representing Level 2 fair value measurements as defined by IFRS 7.
There are no financial instruments which have been categorised as Level 1 or Level 3. categories of financial instruments Carrying value 2013 2012 m m Financial assets Trade receivables and other debtors excluding prepayments 75.0 67.3 Derivative instruments in non-designated hedge accounting relationships 0.3 Cash and cash equivalents 18.4 18.6 Financial liabilities Trade payables and other creditors 51.7 48.9 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 0.5 0.8 Loans and overdrafts 68.2 72.8 Leasing obligations 3.1 2.2 Derivative instruments in non-designated hedge accounting relationships 0.4 Financial risk management objectives The Groups Corporate Treasury function provides services to the business, coordinates access to domestic and international financial markets, monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the Group through internal risk reports which analyse exposures by degree and magnitude of risks.
These risks include market risk including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate risk.
The Group seeks to minimise the effects of these risks by using derivative financial instruments to hedge these risk exposures.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written principles on foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, the use of financial derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments, and the investment of excess liquidity.
Compliance with policies and exposure limits is reviewed by the Board of Directors regularly.
The Group does not enter into or trade financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments, for speculative purposes.
Key financial risks and exposures are monitored through a monthly report to the Board of Directors, together with an annual Board review of corporate treasury matters.
Financial risk The principal financial risks to which the Group is exposed through its activities are risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices.
The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate, foreign currency risk and commodity price risk, including: forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the exchange rate risk arising on the sale of goods in foreign currency and on the purchase of supplies in foreign currencies: interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk of rising interest rates: and forward commodity contracts to hedge commodity price risk.
Foreign currency risk management The Group undertakes certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies.
Any exposures to exchange rate fluctuations which arise are managed within approved policy parameters utilising forward foreign exchange contracts.
The carrying amounts of the Groups foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the reporting date are as follows: Liabilities Assets 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m US Dollar including leases 66.3 69.2 5.3 1.4 Euro 4.9 4.4 1.4 Australian Dollar 0.2 108|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts Foreign currency sensitivity analysis The Group is mainly exposed to movement in the US Dollar, Euro, Brazilian Real and the Mexico Peso exchange rates.
The following table details the Groups sensitivity to a 10% increase and decrease in Sterling against the relevant foreign currencies.
10% is the sensitivity rate used when reporting foreign currency risk internally to key management personnel and represents managements assessment of a significant change in foreign exchange rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 10% change in foreign currency rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes external loans as well as loans to foreign operations within the Group where the denomination of the loan is in a currency other than the currency of the lender or the borrower.
A positive number below indicates an increase in profit where Sterling weakens against the relevant currency.
For a strengthening of Sterling against the relevant currency, there would be an equal and opposite impact on the profit, and the balances below would be negative.
The impact on other equity is minimal due to the net investment hedging in place.
Euro US Dollar currency impact currency impact 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m 10% currency movement Profit or loss 0.8 0.7 2.4 2.3 Brazilian Real Mexican Peso currency impact currency impact 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m 10% currency movement Profit or loss 0.7 0.7 0.8 0.7 Forward foreign exchange contracts It is the policy of the Group to enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to cover specific foreign currency payments and receipts.
The following table details the forward foreign currency contracts outstanding as at the year end: Average Contract value Fair value exchange Foreign rate currency 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2013 m m m m Outstanding contracts Buy USD 1.52 USD 1.5 Buy Romanian Leu 5.095 RON 0.2 0.6 Buy MXN 19.93 MXN 0.6 Sell Renminbi n a CNY 0.8 Sell Polish Zloty 5.05 PLN 0.8 0.2 Buy Euro 0.845 EUR 1.6 Sell Euro n a EUR 0.8 Sell AUD n a AUD 0.1 Buy CAD sell USD 1.02 CAD 0.1 Buy USD sell AUD 0.952 AUD 0.1 Buy USD sell ARS 5.51 ARS 0.3 Buy USD sell Chilean Peso 504.58 CLP 0.1 Buy USD sell COP 1953 COP 0.3 0.3 Buy USD sell Euro 1.33 EUR 0.4 0.6 Buy USD sell Renminbi 6.21 CNY 1.3 Buy MXN sell USD 12.54 MXN 2.5 2.4 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 interest rate risk management The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as entities in the Group borrow funds at both fixed and floating interest rates.
The risk is managed centrally by the Group by maintaining an appropriate mix between fixed and floating rate borrowings, using interest rate swap agreements.
Hedging activities are reviewed regularly to align with interest rate views and defined risk appetite, thereby ensuring optimal hedging strategies are applied, to minimise the adverse impact of fluctuations in interest expense through different interest rate cycles.
The Groups exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk management section of this note.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|109 NOtes tO tHe GrOuP FiNaNciaL stateMeNts cONtiNued FOr tHe year eNded 30 JuNe 2013 25.
Financial instruments continued interest rate sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
A 1.0% increase or decrease is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel and represents managements assessment of a significant change in interest rates.
If interest rates had been 1.0% higher lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups profit for the year ended 30 June 2013 would decrease increase by 0.3m 2012: decrease increase by 0.4m.
This small impact is attributable to the Groups decreasing borrowing liabilities and the effects of fixed rate hedging.
interest rate swap contracts Under interest rate swap contracts, the Group agrees to exchange the difference between fixed and floating rate interest amounts calculated on agreed notional principal amounts.
Such contracts enable the Group to mitigate the risk of changing interest rates on the cash flow exposures on the issued variable rate debt held.
The fair value of interest rate swaps at the reporting date is determined by discounting the future cash flows using the yield curves at the reporting date and the credit risk inherent in the contract, and is disclosed below.
The average interest rate is based on the outstanding balances at the end of the financial year.
The following tables detail the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of interest rate swap contracts outstanding as at the reporting date: cash flow hedges Interest rate swaps IRS Average contract Notional fixed interest rate principal amount Fair value 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Outstanding receive floating pay fixed contracts % % m m m m USD IRS Within one year Two to five years 1.39 1.40 39.6 44.6 0.5 0.8 The interest rate swaps settle on a quarterly basis.
The corresponding floating rate on the interest rate swaps is three-month LIBOR.
The Group settles the difference between the fixed and floating interest rate on a net basis.
Interest rate swap contracts exchanging floating rate interest amounts for fixed rate interest amounts are designated as cash flow hedges in order to reduce the Groups cash flow exposure resulting from variable interest rates on borrowings.
The interest rate swaps and the interest payments on the loan occur simultaneously and the amount deferred in equity is recognised in profit or loss over the period that the floating rate interest payments on debt impact profit or loss.
commodity hedges The Group hedges both feed and slaughter exposures by using the Chicago Mercantile Exchange CME lean hog, corn, soybean meal and winter wheat commodity futures.
Notional Average price principal amount Fair value 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Commodity hedge US$ US$ m m m m Open contracts from July 2013 to June 2014 Lean hog futures 0.86 n a 10.6 n a 0.1 n a Corn 5.82 n a 3.0 n a 0.3 n a Soybean meal 379 n a 1.8 n a n a Winter wheat 8.18 n a 0.6 n a n a Open contracts from July 2012 to June 2013 Lean hog futures n a 0.86 n a 5.1 n a 0.1 Corn n a 5.53 n a 1.3 n a 0.2 Soybean meal n a 379 n a 0.9 n a 0.1 Winter wheat n a 7.11 n a 0.6 n a 0.1 5.2 2.3 0.4 0.3 110|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts credit risk management Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties.
The Groups exposure and the credit ratings of its counterparties are regularly monitored and the aggregate value of transactions concluded is spread amongst approved counterparties.
Credit exposure on financial instruments is controlled by counterparty limits that are reviewed and approved by the Board annually.
Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across diverse industries and geographical areas.
Ongoing credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable.
Liquidity risk management Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves and banking facilities and by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
Liquidity and interest risk tables The following tables detail the Groups remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities excluding trade payables and other creditors.
The tables have been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay.
The table includes both interest and principal cash flows.
Weighted average effective Less than 13 3 months 15 5 interest rate 1 month months to 1 year years years Total % m m m m m m 2013 Variable interest rate instruments 1.8 1.3 3.7 5.4 65.2 75.6 2012 Variable interest rate instruments 1.9 2.2 3.6 5.3 70.0 81.1 The following table details the Groups expected maturity for other non-derivative financial assets excluding trade receivables and other debtors.
The tables below have been drawn up based on the undiscounted contractual maturities of the financial assets including interest that will be earned on those assets except where the Group anticipates that the cash flow will occur in a different period.
Weighted average effective Less than 13 3 months 15 5 interest rate 1 month months to 1 year years years Total % m m m m m m 2013 Variable interest rate instruments 0.7 15.9 2.5 18.4 2012 Variable interest rate instruments 1.1 15.4 3.2 18.6 The Group has access to financing facilities, the total unused amount of which is 63.7m 2012: 59.5m at the balance sheet date.
The Group expects to meet its other obligations from operating cash flows and proceeds of maturing financial assets.
The Group expects to reduce the current debt to equity ratio as the level of borrowings decreases through repayment from operating cash flows.
The following table details the Groups liquidity analysis for its derivative financial instruments.
The table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted net cash outflows on the derivative instruments that settle on a net basis and the undiscounted gross outflows on those derivatives that require gross settlement.
When the amount payable or receivable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to the projected interest and foreign currency rates as illustrated by the yield curves existing at the reporting date.
Less than 13 3 months 15 5 1 month months to 1 year years years Total m m m m m m 2013 Interest rate swaps 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.5 2012 Interest rate swaps 0.1 0.3 0.5 0.9 Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|111 NOtes tO tHe GrOuP FiNaNciaL stateMeNts cONtiNued FOr tHe year eNded 30 JuNe 2013 26.
Loans and borrowings 2013 2012 m m Non-current liabilities Unsecured bank loans 60.7 64.6 Obligations under finance leases 1.9 1.3 62.6 65.9 Current liabilities Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts 7.5 8.2 Obligations under finance leases 1.2 0.9 8.7 9.1 Total interest-bearing liabilities 71.3 75.0 terms and debt repayment schedule Terms and conditions of outstanding loans and overdrafts were as follows: 2013 2012 Currency Interest rate m m Revolving credit facility and overdraft GBP 1.5% 0.7 1.2 Revolving credit facility and term loan and overdraft USD 1.7% 62.6 67.0 Revolving credit facility and overdraft EUR 1.6% 4.3 4.0 Finance lease liabilities USD 5.0% 3.1 2.2 Unsecured bank borrowings Other 0% 0.6 0.6 Total interest-bearing liabilities 71.3 75.0 The above revolving credit facilities are unsecured.
Information about the Groups exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk is shown in note 25.
2013 2012 m m Loans and borrowings excluding finance leases comprise amounts falling due: In one year or less or on demand 8.0 8.6 In more than one year but not more than two years 6.6 6.4 In more than two years but not more than five years 54.2 58.9 68.8 73.9 Less: unamortised issue costs 0.6 1.1 68.2 72.8 Current liabilities 7.5 8.2 Non-current liabilities 60.7 64.6 The credit facilities at the balance sheet date comprised a 65m multi-currency revolving credit facility, a US$60m revolving credit and an amortising US$50m term loan repayable in instalments by 30 September 2015.
As part of its interest rate strategy the Company has entered into interest rate swaps to hedge floating LIBOR rates.
Asa result bank loan and overdrafts include borrowings of US$60m 39.6m fixed at 1.39%.
All indicated rates are exclusive of applicable bank margin.
Also included in the above are unsecured loans of 0.3m 2012: 0.3m for an agricultural development loan in the US and a 0.2m 2012: 0.3m loan in Spain.
Both of these loans are interest free.
112|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts 27.
Finance lease liabilities Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows: Minimum Minimum lease lease payments Interest Principal payments Interest Principal 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 m m m m m m Less than one year 1.2 1.2 0.9 0.9 Between one to five years 1.9 0.1 2.0 1.3 0.1 1.4 3.1 0.1 3.2 2.2 0.1 2.3 Finance lease liabilities are secured over the assets to which they relate.
28. retirement benefit obligations The Group has a number of defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes covering many of its employees.
The principal funds are those in the United Kingdom, the Milk Pension Fund and the Dalgety Pension Fund, which are defined benefit schemes.
The assets of these funds are held separately from the assets of the Group and administered by trustees and managed professionally.
These schemes are closed to new members.
The financial position of the defined benefit schemes as recorded in accordance with IAS 19 are aggregated for disclosure purposes.
The liability split by principal scheme is set out below.
2013 2012 m m The Milk Pension Fund Genuss share 55.7 37.1 The Milk Pension Fund additional provision 20.1 55.7 57.2 The Dalgety Pension Fund 1.4 Other retirement benefit obligations 9.3 8.7 Overall pension liability 65.0 67.3 Overall, the Group expects to pay 6.0m in contributions to defined benefit plans in the 201314 financial year.
the Milk Pension Fund MPF The MPF is that previously operated by the Milk Marketing Board, and was also open to membership of staff working for Milk Marque Ltd the principal employer now known as Community Foods Group Limited, National Milk Records plc, First Milk Ltd, hauliers associated to First Milk Ltd, Dairy Farmers of Britain Ltd which went into receivership in June 2009 and Milk Link Ltd. Genus has accounted for its section and its share of any orphan assets and liabilities, collectively representing approximately 75% of the MPF 2012: 37% of the MPF and 20.1m provision.
Although managed on a sectionalised basis, the MPF is a last man standing scheme, which means that all participating employers are joint and severally liable for all of the funds liabilities.
During the year, the multi-employer MPF triennial valuation as at 31 March 2012 was completed and a new funding agreement between the employers was agreed.
These changes gave rise to an exceptional credit of 7m.
The most recent actuarial valuation of the MPF was at 31 March 2012.
The valuation of the fund used the projected unitmethod for future service, a control period of three years was used and was carried out by professionally qualifiedactuaries.
The principal actuarial assumptions adopted in the 2012 valuation were that investment returns on existing assets would be 6.4% per annum before retirement and 4.0% per annum after retirement and that the annual increase in pensions in payment would be 3.4% per annum.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|113 NOtes tO tHe GrOuP FiNaNciaL stateMeNts cONtiNued FOr tHe year eNded 30 JuNe 2013 28. retirement benefit obligations continued the Milk Pension Fund MPF continued At 31 March 2012, the market value of the funds assets amounted to 312m.
The value of those assets represented approximately 69% of the value of the uninsured liabilities which were 453m at 31 March 2012, after allowing for expected future increases in earnings.
The deficit in the fund as a whole, by reference to the 31 March 2012 valuation, was 141m of which Genuss notional share was 106m and this shortfall is being addressed by additional contributions from the participating employers and the exit payment of 31m made in September 2012 by two employers.
Under the new funding agreement, the Company has agreed to make deficit repair contributions between 4.5m6.4m per annum between 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2016, and rising thereafter by 3.4% for a further nine years until 31 March 2026.
With effect from 30 June 2013, Genuss active members ceased accruing benefits in the fund and became deferredpensioners.
The Groups pension cost for the scheme in 2013 is nil 2012: 0.1m.
dalgety Pension Fund dPF The most recent actuarial valuation of the DPF was at 31 March 2012.
The valuation of the scheme used the projected unit method and was carried out by professionally qualified actuaries.
The principal actuarial assumptions adopted in the 2012 valuation were that investment returns on existing assets would be 5.2% per annum before retirement and 3.3% per annum after retirement and that the annual increase in pensions in payment would be 3.5% per annum.
The market value of the available assets at 31 March 2012 was 21.3m.
The value of those assets represents approximately 99% of the value of the uninsured liabilities which were 21.6m at 31 March 2012.
Under the new funding agreement, the Company has agreed to make deficit repair contributions of 0.3m per annum until 30 June 2013.
The disclosures required under IAS 19 have been calculated by an independent actuary based on accurate calculations carried out as at 31 March 2012 updated to 30 June 2013.
Under the projected unit method the current service cost will increase as the members approach retirement.
There is a 11.1m reserve held by Trustees of DPF against future unknown liabilities materialising.
As the economic benefit to the Company of this amount is not certain, it is treated as a contingent asset.
The Groups pension cost for the scheme in 2013 is nil 2012: nil.
Other defined benefit scheme in deficit The Group also operates a closed defined benefit scheme for a small number of former employees of the National Pig Development Company Limited.
The total market value of scheme assets and liabilities at 30 June 2013 under the provisions of IAS 19 were 4.3m 2012: 3.9m and 5.6m 2012: 5.2m, respectively.
Other unfunded schemes On the acquisition of Sygen International plc, the Group acquired three unfunded defined benefit schemes and an unfunded retirement health benefit plan, which it now operates for the benefit of the previous groups senior employees and executives.
For the three unfunded defined benefit schemes, based on the methods and assumptions of IAS 19 the scheme liabilities amount to 6.6m 2012: 6.2m and this amount is included within pension liabilities in the Groups balance sheet.
The current cost charged to operating profit in the year to 30 June 2013 amounted to nil 2012: nil and the interest on pension scheme liabilities amounted to 0.3m 2012: 0.3m.
The principal assumptions used to calculate the scheme liabilities were that the discount rate would be 4.6% 2012: 4.5% and that inflation and pension payments would be 3.4% per annum 2012: 2.8%.
For the unfunded retirement health benefit plan, based on the methods and assumptions of IAS 19, scheme liabilities amount to 1.3m 2012: 1.2m and this amount is included within retirement benefit obligations in the Groups balance sheet.
The current cost charged to operating profit in the year to 30 June 2013 amounted to nil 2012: nil and the interest on plan liabilities amounted to 0.1m 2012: 0.1m.
The principal assumptions used to calculate the plan liabilities were that the discount rate would be 4.6% 2012: 4.5% and that the long-term rate of medical expense inflation would be 7.4% 2012: 6.8%.
114|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts aggregated position of defined benefit schemes 2013 2012 m m Present value of funded obligations includes Genuss 75% share of the MPF 347.2 177.2 The MPF additional provision 20.1 Present value of unfunded obligations 8.0 7.4 Total present value of obligations 355.2 204.7 Fair value of plan assets includes Genuss 75% share of the MPF 294.1 143.7 Restrict recognition of asset and recognition of additional liability Dalgety 3.9 6.3 Recognised liability for defined benefit obligations 65.0 67.3 Plan assets consist of the following: 2013 2012 m m Equities 179.9 85.4 Gilts and corporate bonds 80.9 46.6 Cash 1.0 0.5 Other 32.3 11.2 294.1 143.7 Movement in the liability for defined benefit obligations 2013 2012 m m Liability for defined benefit obligations at the start of the year 204.7 163.0 Recognition of additional liability MPF 138.5 Benefits paid by the plans 7.2 7.6 Current service costs and interest 8.1 9.2 Actuarial losses recognised in equity 18.1 19.9 Gains on curtailments and settlements 0.2 Release additional provision MPF 7.0 20.1 Exchange rate adjustment 0.2 0.1 Liability for defined benefit obligations at the end of year 355.2 204.7 Movement in plan assets 2013 2012 m m Fair value of plan assets at the start of the year 143.7 146.4 Recognition of additional assets MPF 138.5 Contributions paid into the plans 2.9 2.8 Benefits paid by the plans 7.2 7.6 Expected return on plan assets 8.8 10.0 Actuarial gains losses recognised in equity 7.4 7.9 Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 294.1 143.7 amounts recognised in the Group income statement 2013 2012 m m Current service costs 0.1 Interest obligation 8.1 9.1 Expected return on plan assets 8.8 10.0 Exceptional item release additional provision MPF 7.0 20.1 Gains on curtailments and settlements 0.2 7.9 19.3 Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|115 NOtes tO tHe GrOuP FiNaNciaL stateMeNts cONtiNued FOr tHe year eNded 30 JuNe 2013 28. retirement benefit obligations continued the income expense is recognised in the following line items in the income statement 2013 2012 m m Administrative expenses 0.1 Curtailment gain in administrative expenses 0.2 Exceptional item release additional provision MPF 7.0 20.1 Finance income 0.7 0.9 7.9 19.3 actuarial gains and losses recognised directly in equity 2013 2012 m m Cumulative loss at the start of the year 42.3 15.1 Actuarial loss recognised during the year 10.6 27.8 Movement in restriction of asset 2.4 0.7 Exchange rate adjustment 0.2 0.1 Cumulative loss at the end of the year 50.7 42.3 actuarial assumptions and sensitivity analysis Principal actuarial assumptions at the reporting date expressed as weighted averages : 2013 2012 Discount rate 4.6% 4.5% Expected return on plan assets 7.1% 6.3% Medical cost trend rate 7.4% 6.8% Future pension increases and inflation 3.4% 2.8% The mortality assumptions used are consistent with those recommended by the schemes actuaries and reflect the latest available tables, adjusted for the experience of the scheme where appropriate.
In 2013 the mortality tables used are 90% of the SN1A tables, with birth year and 2011 CMI projections, with mortality rates increased by 25% at all ages 2012: the mortality tables used are the SN1A tables, with birth year and medium cohort projections, with mortality rates increased by 25% at all ages.
The following table shows the assumptions used for all schemes and illustrates the expectation of life of an average member retiring at age 65 at the balance sheet date and a member reaching age 65 in 20 years time.
2013 2012 Years Years Retiring at balance sheet date at age 65: Male 23.2 21.8 Female 25.7 24.0 Retiring at age 65 in 20 years time: Male 25.0 24.7 Female 27.6 27.0 The overall expected long-term rate of return on assets is 7.1% 2012: 6.3%.
The expected long-term rate of return is based on the portfolio as a whole and not on the sum of the returns on individual asset categories.
The return is based exclusively on historical returns, without adjustments.
The amount the deficit varies if the main financial assumption changes, particularly the discount rate.
If the discount rate increased decreased by 0.1% the IAS 19 deficit would decrease increase by 5.0m.
116|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts The history of experience adjustment is as follows: 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 m m m m m Present value of the defined benefit obligation 355.2 204.7 163.0 157.1 146.0 Fair value of plan assets 294.1 143.7 146.4 130.9 112.0 Restrict recognition of asset and recognition of additional liability 3.9 6.3 7.0 2.6 1.4 Deficit in the plan 65.0 67.3 23.6 28.8 35.4 Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities % 5.1 10.8 3.0 6.0 1.6 Experience adjustments arising on plan assets % 2.5 5.5 7.0 12.1 15.5 29. share-based payments The Group recognised total share-based payment expense including National Insurance contributions of 0.4m 2012:0.7m of 2.8m 2012: 3.1m.
share options On 12 August 2004 the Group established a share option programme that entitles key management personnel and other senior employees to purchase shares in the Company.
Further grants on similar terms were offered to these employee groups as set out below.
The terms and conditions of the grants are as set out below.
All options are to be settled by physical delivery of shares and meet the criteria for being treated as equity-settled as defined by IFRS 2.
Number of Option Contractual Employees entitled Grant date instruments Vesting conditions exercise price life of options 1 2004 Company share plan 19 May 2005 21,000 Exercisable 310.5p 10 years 2 2004 Company share plan 21 June 2006 12,300 Exercisable 439.75p 10 years 3 2004 Company share plan 21 September 2007 9,694 Exercisable 582p 10 years 4 2004 Company share plan 19 September 2008 13,359 Exercisable 775.67p 10 years 5 2004 Company share plan 15 September 2009 55,026 Exercisable 654.5p 10 years 6 2004 Company share plan 10 September 2010 247,878 3 years service 729.83p 10 years 7 2004 Company share plan 9 September 2011 228,721 3 years service 977.83p 10 years 8 2004 Company share plan 7 September 2012 154,289 3 years service 1334p 10 years Total share options 742,267 The options under 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 are now exercisable.
The options under 6, 7 and 8 above can only be exercised if over a three-year period the average annual percentage growth in earnings per share exceeds a minimum of RPI 5% for the same period, unless provisions for good leavers have been met where members retire, leave employment due to ill-health or are made redundant.
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows: Weighted Weighted average Number average Number exercise price of options exercise price of options 2013 2013 2012 2012 Outstanding at start of year 756p 877,314 680p 805,151 Forfeited during the year 992p 24,716 848p 42,957 SAR effected during the year 676p 116,827 744p 87,684 Exercised during the year 641p 152,912 671p 62,566 Granted during the year 1,334p 159,408 978p 265,370 Outstanding at 30 June 908p 742,267 756p 877,314 Exercisable at 30 June 574p 111,379 528p 111,200 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was 1,450p.
In the year to 30 June 2013, options were granted on 7 September 2012.
The aggregate of the fair values of those options granted was 611,000.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|117 NOtes tO tHe GrOuP FiNaNciaL stateMeNts cONtiNued FOr tHe year eNded 30 JuNe 2013 29. share-based payments continued The fair value of services received in return for share options granted is based on the fair value of share options granted, measured using a binomial model, with the following inputs: assumptions applied in valuation models at grant date 2013 2012 Exercise price of options granted in the year nil for awards 1,344p 978p Expected volatility weighted average volatility 31% 30% Option life expected weighted average life 6.5 years 6.5 years Expected dividends 1.34% 1.46% Risk-free interest rate based on government bonds 0.95% 1.7% Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the estimated fair value of the Companys share price over the previous three years.
The option life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
share awards In addition to the outstanding share options above, there are a total of 622,529 conditional share awards which are outstanding at 30 June 2013.
These conditional shares were awarded to Executive Directors and senior management on 3 March 2009, 15 September 2009, 10 September 2010, 9 September 2011, 7 December 2012 and 28 February 2013 under the 2004 Performance Share Plan.
In accordance with the terms of the plan, participants in the plan have received a conditional annual award of shares or nil cost option awards which will vest mainly after three years, with the proportion of the award vesting being based on growth in Group adjusted earnings per share.
Further details of the performance conditions attributing to the 2004 Performance Share Plan are given in the Directors Remuneration Report.
In the year to 30 June 2013, awards were granted on 7 December 2012 and 28 February 2013.
The aggregate of the fair values of those awards granted was 4,581,000.
The fair value of services received in return for share awards granted is based on the fair value of share awards granted, measured using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
Number Number of awards of awards 2013 2012 Outstanding at start of year 451,840 746,122 Exercised during the year 145,349 365,604 Lapsed during the year 28,171 194,260 Granted during the year 344,209 265,582 Outstanding at 30 June 622,529 451,840 Exercisable at 30 June 64,271 43,262 30. capital and reserves share capital 2013 2012 2013 2012 Number Number m m Authorised Ordinary shares of 10 pence 75,989,400 75,989,400 7.6 7.6 Issued and fully paid Ordinary shares of 10 pence 60,648,563 60,295,651 6.1 6.0 The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time.
The movement in share capital for the period was as follows: 2013 2012 2013 2012 Number Number m m Issued under the Executive Share Option Plan 152,912 62,566 Issued to the Employee Benefits Trust 200,000 300,000 352,912 362,566 118|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts Shares issued under share option plans were issued at option prices as follows: 2013 2012 Number Price Number Price Executive Share Option Plan 7,217 310.5p 9,740 439.75p 6,634 439.75p 7,305 472p 7,135 472p 5,426 582p 3,442 582p 40,095 776p 9,223 776p 101,385 654.5p 14,383 729.83p 3,450 977.83p 43 1,334p 152,912 62,566 reserve for own shares The Companys own shares are held by a Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust QUEST, an Employee Benefit Trust established to facilitate the operation of the Groups long-term incentive scheme for senior management.
The amount of the reserve represents the deduction in arriving at shareholders funds for the consideration paid for the Companys shares purchased by the trust which had not vested unconditionally at the balance sheet date.
The number and market value of the ordinary shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust and the QUEST were: 2013 2012 2013 2012 Number Number m m Shares allocated but not vested 111,181 56,530 1.5 0.7 Unallocated shares 92,334 92,334 1.3 1.1 203,515 148,864 2.8 1.8 translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations as well as from the translation of financial instruments and any related tax effect that hedge the Companys net investment in a foreign subsidiary.
In addition, translation gains and losses and the related tax arising on a US Dollar denominated inter-company loan to the Groups operations in the US are recorded in the translation reserve.
Hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments net of taxation.
Hedging and translation reserves Hedging Translation reserve reserve m m Balance at 30 June 2011 0.3 24.2 Exchange differences on translation of overseas operations 7.0 Gain recognised on net investment hedges 1.1 Loss recognised on cash flow hedges: Interest swaps 0.2 Income tax related to losses recognised in equity 1.2 Balance at 30 June 2012 0.5 17.1 Exchange differences on translation of overseas operations 13.8 Loss recognised on net investment hedges 2.4 Gain recognised on cash flow hedges: Interest swaps 0.2 Income tax related to losses recognised in equity 3.1 Balance at 30 June 2013 0.3 25.4 Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|119 NOtes tO tHe GrOuP FiNaNciaL stateMeNts cONtiNued FOr tHe year eNded 30 JuNe 2013 31.
Notes to the cash flow statement 2013 2012 m m Profit for the year 27.0 39.6 Adjustment for: Net IAS 41 valuation movement on biological assets 4.9 38.8 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 5.2 5.2 Share-based payment expense 2.8 3.1 Share of profit of joint ventures and associates 2.8 2.3 Finance costs 1.9 2.1 Income tax expense 11.1 14.8 Other exceptional items 4.2 22.1 Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations 45.9 45.8 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 5.3 5.1 Gain on disposal of plant and equipment 0.3 Amortisation of intangible assets 0.6 0.6 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation 51.5 51.5 Exceptional item cash 2.8 1.0 Other movements in biological assets and harvested produce 3.1 2.0 Decrease increase in provisions 1.3 0.4 Additional pension contributions in excess of pension charge 2.9 2.7 Other 0.1 0.7 Operating cash flows before movement in working capital 41.3 45.5 Increase in inventories 1.1 0.7 Increase in receivables 7.3 5.3 Increase in payables 2.0 4.4 Cash generated by operations 34.9 43.9 Interest received 0.1 0.2 Interest and other finance costs paid 1.6 2.2 Cash flow from derivative financial instruments 0.5 0.6 Income taxes paid 8.9 8.7 Net cash from operating activities 24.0 32.6 analysis of net debt At 1 July Cash Foreign Non-cash At 30 June 2012 flows exchange movements 2013 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 18.6 0.7 0.5 18.4 Interest bearing loans current 8.2 1.2 0.5 7.5 Obligation under finance leases current 0.9 1.3 0.1 1.5 1.2 9.1 2.5 0.1 2.0 8.7 Interest bearing loans non-current 64.6 6.3 2.4 60.7 Obligation under finance lease non-current 1.3 0.1 0.5 1.9 65.9 6.3 2.5 0.5 62.6 Net debt 56.4 8.1 2.1 2.5 52.9 Included within non-cash movements is 2.0m in relation to new finance leases.
120|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts 32.
Operating leases The Group leases various offices under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have various terms and renewal rights.
The Group also leases plant and machines under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
Total of future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases which expire within: 2013 2012 m m Less than one year 2.8 3.6 Between one and five years 7.1 6.7 More than five years 10.1 1.6 20.0 11.9 Total future sublease payments receivable relating to the above operating leases amounted to 0.3m 2012: 1.1m.
33. capital commitments At 30 June 2013 outstanding contracted capital expenditure amounted to nil 2012: nil.
34. contingencies The retirement benefit obligations referred to in note 28 include obligations relating to the Milk Pension defined benefit scheme.
Genus has accounted for its section and its share of any orphan assets and liabilities, collectively representing approximately 75% of the Milk Pension Fund.
35. related parties transactions with key management personnel Key management compensation including Directors 2013 2012 m m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 4.1 4.2 Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.1 Compensation for loss of office 0.2 0.4 Share-based payment expense 1.9 1.8 6.4 6.5 Directors Details of Directors compensation are included in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Other transactions with key management personnel Other than remuneration there were no transactions with key management personnel.
Other related party transactions Transaction value Balance outstanding 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Sale of goods and services to joint ventures and associates 3.1 4.7 0.1 0.6 All outstanding balances with joint ventures and associates are priced on an arms length basis and are to be settled in cash within six months of the reporting date.
None of the balances are secured.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|121 NOtes tO tHe GrOuP FiNaNciaL stateMeNts cONtiNued FOr tHe year eNded 30 JuNe 2013 36.
Group entities The principal subsidiaries of Genus plc and their main activities are set out below.
All are 100% owned by Genus plc.
Except where shown, all of the companies are registered in England and Wales.
The companies listed below include all those which principally affected the amount of the profit or net assets of the Group.
A full list of subsidiary and other related companies will be annexed to the next annual return of Genus plc to be filed with the Registrar of Companies.
Subsidiary companies Holding Nature of business ABS Global Inc. incorporated in United States US$1 capital stock 1 Supply of dairy and beef semen ABS Italia S. r. l. incorporated in Italy 1 quota capital 1 Supply of dairy and beef semen ABS Mexico S. A. fide C. V. incorporated in Mexico US$1 common stock Supply of dairy and beef semen ABS Pecplan Ltda.
incorporated in Brazil RS1 quota stock Supply of dairy and beef semen ABS Global Canada Inc. incorporated in Canada CN$1 common shares 1 Supply of dairy and beef semen Bovec SAS incorporated in France 1 capital stock 1 Supply of dairy and beef semen Genus Australia Pty Ltd incorporated in Australia AU$1 ordinary shares 1 Supply of dairy and beef semen Genus Breeding Limited 1 ordinary shares Supply of dairy and beef semen Promar International Limited 1 ordinary shares Market research and consultancy PIC Andina S. A. incorporated in Chile Peso 1 ordinary shares 1 Supply of pigs and semen PIC Espana S. A. Spain incorporated in Spain 1 capital stock 1 Supply of pigs and semen PIC USA, Inc. incorporated in United States US$1 common stock 1 Supply of pigs and semen PIC Polska Sp.
incorporated in Poland PLN1 common stock 1 Supply of pigs and semen Pig Improvement Company Deutschland GmbH incorporated in Germany 1 capital stock 1 Supply of pigs and semen Pig Improvement Company Mexico S. A. fide C. V. incorporated in Mexico Peso 1 quota stock 1 Supply of pigs and semen Pig Improvement Company UK Limited 10p ordinary shares 1 Supply of pigs and semen PIC Zhangjiagang China incorporated in China US$1 ordinary shares 1 Supply of pigs and semen 1 Held by subsidiary undertaking.
Post balance sheet event In August 2013, the Group completed a bank refinancing exercise, which now includes an option to increase the existing credit facility by an additional US$50m.
In August 2013, the Group provided 3.6m of initial funding to its now operational joint venture JV with Shaanxi Yangling Besun Agricultural Group Co. a leading integrated pork producer in China.
Genus is a 49% partner in the JV and expects to make further cash investment in the JV of approximately 5.3m, in the first half of FY14.
