strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts iNdePeNdeNt auditOrs rePOrt PareNt cOMPaNy FiNaNciaL stateMeNts independent auditors report to the members of Opinion on financial statements Genusplc In our opinion the Parent Company Financial Statements: We have audited the Parent Company Financial give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Statements of Genus plc for the year ended 30 June 2013 Companys affairs as at 30 June 2013: which comprise the Parent Company Balance Sheet and have been properly prepared in accordance with the related notes 38 to 51.
The financial reporting United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting framework that has been applied in their preparation Practice: and isapplicable law and United Kingdom Accounting have been prepared in accordance with the Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the companies This report is made solely to the Companys members, act 2006 asa body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of In our opinion: theCompanies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be undertaken so that we might state to the Companys audited has been properly prepared in accordance with members those matters we are required to state to them the Companies Act 2006: and in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the the information given in the Directors Report for the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or financial year for which the financial statements are assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company prepared is consistent with the Parent Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit Financial Statements.
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception respective responsibilities of directors and auditor We have nothing to report in respect of the following As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to Statement, the Directors are responsible for the report to you if, in our opinion: preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements adequate accounting records have not been kept by and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on have not been received from branches not visited by the Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance us: or with applicable law and International Standards on the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical are not in agreement with the accounting records and Standards for Auditors.
returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified scope of the audit of the financial statements by law are not made: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts we have not received all the information and and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to explanations we require for our audit.
give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by Other matter fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether We have reported separately on the Group Financial the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Statements of Genus plc for the year ended 30 June 2013.
Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Inaddition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material edward Hanson senior statutory auditor inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
For and on behalf of deloitte LLP Ifwe become aware of any apparent material Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the London, United Kingdom implications for our report.
