DiRECTORS RESPONSiBiLiTiES STATEmENT The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Going Concern Report and the Financial Statements in accordance with The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 49 sets out the applicable laws and regulations.
Groups position and prospects, in particular: The Groups business activities, Business Model, Company law requires the Directors to prepare such strategy, their performance and position are set out Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that on pages 2 to 39. law, the Directors are required to prepare Group Financial The financial position of the Group including cash flows, Statements in accordance with International Financial liquidity position, borrowing facilities and treasury risk Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the management policies are set out in note 25.
European Union EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation The risk factors facing the Group and mitigating actions and have chosen to prepare the Parent Company in place are described on pages 40 and 41.
Financial Statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United In addition, note 25 to the Financial Statements Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
includes details of the Groups bank facilities, borrowings Under company law, the Directors must not approve the under such facilities and details of the Groups accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true financial instruments.
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In After reviewing the available information including the preparing these Financial Statements, the Directors are Groups business plans and after making enquiries, the required to: Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group properly select and apply accounting policies properly: has adequate resources to continue in operational present information, including accounting policies, in existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing and understandable information: the Financial Statements.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to Directors Responsibilities Statement enable users to understand the impact of particular The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge: transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys 1. the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with financial position and financial performance: and IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of make an assessment of the Companys ability to the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss continue as a going concern.
of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and The Directors are responsible for keeping proper 2. the management report, which is incorporated into the accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain Directors Report, includes a fair review of the the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable development and performance of the business and the accuracy at any time the financial position of the position of the Company and the undertakings included Company and enable them to ensure that the Financial in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They description of the principal risks and uncertainties that are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the they face.
Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
By order of the Board: The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ Karim Bitar Stephen wilson from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Chief Executive Group finance Director 2 September 2013 2 September 2013 76|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013
