GLOBAL OPERATIONS GLOBAL FOOTPRINT GKN is a global engineering business.
We have factories, service centres and offices in over 30 countries across five continents.
This strong global footprint positions the business to serve an international customer base and creates a platform from which we can access fast growing markets.
Leveraging our strong global presence is a key strategic objective of the Group in helping to deliver above market growth see pages 18-19.
By continually developing our geographic spread and expanding into growing markets, we are building long lasting and mutually beneficial customer relationships and increasing the technologies we offer in countries in which we operate.
Some of our divisions are more established in particular countries than others and we use them to help other parts of the business enter those geographic regions.
Global customers Our customers operate globally and they expect GKN, as a key tier 1 supplier, to match their geographic footprint.
Our strong global presence, operating in close proximity to our customers, helps optimise our positions in major supply chains.
It is also an important factor in developing new technologies in partnership with customers.
Global culture Our 49,700 employees in subsidiaries and joint ventures come from a variety of cultures and backgrounds and have a range of skills and capabilities.
Together our people bring different perspectives, ideas and skills to the Group, creating a global culture across GKN.
Top 10 global customers 2013 by sales VW Group 7% Renault Nissan Group 5% Airbus 7% United Technologies 4% Ford 7% General Electric 4% GM Group 6% Boeing 3% Fiat Chrysler 5% Toyota Group 3% Other 49% 8 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 49,700 33 Employees Countries More online speaking more across five visit www.
com than 26 languages continents ourlocations Countries with active operations Countries with developing operations Countries with no operations Sales by region Employees by region 49,700 Europe 49% UK 5,900 Americas 37% Europe excluding UK 18,300 Rest of World 14% Americas 14,500 Rest of World 11,000 including subsidiaries and joint ventures www.
