INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent Report on the Company financial statements with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing Our opinion the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material In our opinion the Company financial statements, misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications defined below: for our report.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013: Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 have been properly prepared in accordance with United In our opinion: Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the information given in the strategic report and the have been prepared in accordance with the requirements Directors report for the financial year for which the Company of the Companies Act 2006. financial statements are prepared is consistent with the This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the Company financial statements: and remainder of this report.
the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the What we have audited Companies Act 2006.
The Company financial statements, which are prepared by GKN plc, comprise: Other matters on which we are required to report by exception the Balance sheet of GKN plc as at 31 December 2013: and Adequacy of accounting records and information and the notes to the financial statements of GKN plc, which explanations received include a summary of significant accounting policies and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to other explanatory information.
you if, in our opinion: The financial reporting framework that has been applied we have not received all the information and explanations in their preparation comprises applicable law and United we require for our audit: or Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Accepted Accounting Practice.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or In applying the financial reporting framework, the Directors have made a number of subjective judgements, for example the Company financial statements and the part of the in respect of significant accounting estimates.
In making such Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in estimates, they have made assumptions and considered agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting Directors remuneration framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report Report and Accounts Annual Report, rather than in the to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced remuneration specified by law have not been made.
We have from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
What an audit of financial statements involves Other information in the Annual Report We conducted our audit in accordance with International Under ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give materially inconsistent with the information in the audited reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Company financial statements: or from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially This includes an assessment of: inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently is otherwise misleading.
applied and adequately disclosed: We have no exceptions to report arising from this the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates responsibility.
made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial Responsibilities set out on page 101, the Directors are responsible information in the Annual Report to identify material for the preparation of the Company financial statements and for inconsistencies with the audited Company financial being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
statements and to identify any information that is apparently 156 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of GKN plc for the year ended 31 December 2013.
IAN CHAMBERS SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR FOR AND ON BEHALF OF  LLP CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS AND STATUTORY AUDITORS BIRMINGHAM 24 February 2014 a The maintenance and integrity of the GKN plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
