Financial statements Notes to the financial statements On 18 October 2011, the District Court issued a ruling that construed 44 Legal proceedings the claims of the patent in a manner such that Arzerra would not The Group is involved in significant legal and administrative infringe the patent.
Genentech and Biogen Idec stipulated to a proceedings, principally product liability, intellectual property, tax, judgment of no infringement and filed an appeal of the claim anti-trust and governmental investigations, as well as related private construction issue to the United States Court of Appeals for the litigation.
The Group makes provision for these proceedings on a Federal Circuit on 5 December 2011.
The appeal was heard on regular basis as summarised in Note 2, Accounting principles and 8 November 2012 and the court affirmed the District Courts claim policies and Note 29, Other provisions.
The Group may become construction giving effect to Genentech stipulation that the patent involved in significant legal proceedings in respect of which it is not was not infringed.
Genentech filed a request for rehearing en banc possible to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect, on 16 May 2013, which was denied on 15 July 2013, ending the case.
if any, that could result from ultimate resolution of the proceedings.
Avodart Jalyn In these cases, appropriate disclosures about such cases would be On 29 November 2010, Banner Pharmacaps, Inc.
Banner notified included but no provision would be made.
the Group that it had filed an Abbreviated New Drug Application With respect to each of the legal proceedings described below, other ANDA to market a generic version of Avodart dutasteride in the than those for which a provision has been made, the Group is unable USA.
Banners notification contained a Paragraph IV certification to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect at this alleging that two patents expiring in 2013 and one patent expiring stage.
The Group does not believe that information about the amount in 2015 the 467 patent covering the compound dutasteride were sought by the plaintiffs, if that is known, would be meaningful with invalid or not infringed by Banners proposed generic dutasteride respect to those legal proceedings.
This is due to a number of product.
The Group subsequently received similar notices from factors, including, but not limited to, the stage of proceedings, the Anchen Pharmaceuticals Anchen, Apotex Apotex, Roxane entitlement of parties to appeal a decision and clarity as to theories Laboratories Roxanne, Watson Laboratories, Inc Watson, and of liability, damages and governing law.
Intellectual property claims Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Mylan each variously challenging either include challenges to the validity and enforceability of the Groups the 467 patent or all 3 patents.
patents on various products or processes as well as assertions of On 29 December 2010, Anchen notified the Group that it had filed non-infringement of those patents.
A loss in any of these cases an ANDA for Jalyn with a Paragraph IV certification alleging that the could result in loss of patent protection for the product at issue.
467 patent was invalid, unenforceable or not infringed.
Jalyn, a The consequences of any such loss could be a significant decrease combination of dutasteride and tamsulosin, is covered by the same in sales of that product and could materially affect future results of three patents that cover Avodart.
Subsequently, the Group received operations for the Group.
similar notices from Impax Laboratories, Inc. Impax and Watson Legal expenses incurred and provisions related to legal claims challenging one or more of the patents covering Jalyn.
are charged to selling, general and administration costs.
Provisions The Group filed suit against Anchen, Banner, Impax, Mylan, Roxanne are made, after taking appropriate legal and other specialist advice, and Watson in the United States District Court for the District of where an outflow of resources is considered probable and a reliable Delaware for infringement of the Avodart and Jalyn patents, as estimate can be made of the likely outcome of the dispute.
For certain applicable, and the cases were consolidated for trial.
On 31 August product liability claims, the Group will make a provision where there 2012, the Group filed a separate suit against Apotex in the same is sufficient history of claims made and settlements to enable court for infringement of the 467 patent.
This case was not management to make a reliable estimate of the provision required consolidated with the original case against the other generic to cover unasserted claims.
At 31 December 2013, the Groups defendants.
On 31 May 2013, the Court ordered that the Apotex aggregate provision for legal and other disputes not including tax case would be stayed pending the entry of judgment in the Banner matters described in Note 14, Taxation was 0.6 billion.
On 17 January 2013, the Group and Anchen settled the ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts provided litigation on terms that would allow Anchen to enter the market for and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings, Jalyn in the fourth quarter of 2015 or earlier under certain investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
The Group previously had settled an earlier patent The Groups position could change over time, and, therefore, there challenge against Avodart by Teva Pharmaceuticals Teva on terms can be no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome that will allow Teva to launch its generic dutasteride product in the of any legal proceedings will not exceed by a material amount the fourth quarter of 2015 or earlier under certain circumstances.
amount of the provisions reported in the Groups financial accounts.
Tevas generic dutasteride product was approved by the FDA on If this were to happen, it could have a material adverse impact on 21 December 2010. the results of operation of the Group in the reporting period in which A trial on the consolidated case against the generic defendants the judgments are incurred or the settlements entered into.
The most was held on 28 January 2013.
On 13 August 2013, the District Court significant of these matters are described below.
upheld the validity of the 467 patent.
Banner, Impax, Mylan, Roxanne and Watson appealed the decision in favour of the Group to the Intellectual property Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit on 27 August 2013.
On Arzerra 24 February 2014, the Federal Circuit entered a decision in favour On 23 March 2010, Genentech and Biogen Idec filed suit against of the Group affirming the decision of the District Court.
the Group in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California alleging that the Groups sale of Arzerra ofatumumab, which is approved by the US Food and Drug Administration FDA for treatment of refractory chronic lymphocytic leukaemia CLL, induces and contributes to infringement of their patent that claims the treatment of CLL with an anti-CD-20 monoclonal antibody.
The Group counterclaimed that the patent is invalid or not infringed.
204 GSK Annual Report 2013 In a separate component to the decision, the judge ruled that the Benlysta Lupin generic version of Trizivir did not infringe the patent.
Before In September, 2012, the UK Court of Appeal refused an appeal by Eli trial, Teva stipulated that its generic version of Epzicom would infringe Lilly and Company Eli Lilly asserting that Human Genome Sciences, the patent, and the District Court has enjoined Teva from launching Inc. HGS UK Patent No.
EP0939804 for Benlysta was invalid on its generic Epzicom product.
The parties have appealed the the grounds that it lacked the necessary information required to work judgements.
the invention described in the claims which covered antibodies the antibody claim insufficiency argument.
The UK High Court and the On 6 February 2014, ViiV Healthcare received notice that Lupin had UK Supreme Court previously had decided that the patent was valid filed an ANDA containing a Paragraph IV certification for Epzicom, on all other grounds.
In 2013, the UK Supreme Court refused the Eli alleging that the three patents listed in the Orange Book for Epzicom Lilly petition for a further appeal and, as a result, the UK litigation has are either invalid, unenforceable or not infringed.
These patents relate now ended with the validity of the HGS patent being affirmed by the to a method of treating HIV using the double combination expiring in UK courts.
2016, the hemisulfate salt of abacavir expiring in 2018, and a certain crystal form of lamivudine expiring in 2016.
Eli Lilly separately had requested a declaration from the UK High Court that any Supplementary Protection Certificate SPC filed by Lexiva HGS to extend its UK patent based upon any future Eli Lilly Marketing On 23 April 2012, Ranbaxy Laboratories Limited Ranbaxy notified Authorisation MA for an anti-BLyS antibody will be invalid.
That ViiV Healthcare that it had filed a Paragraph IV certification alleging litigation is pending.
that a patent claiming a polymorphic form of fosamprenavir calcium, On 12 September 2013, the Court of Justice of the European Union the active ingredient in Lexiva, was invalid or not infringed.
The patent CJEU heard arguments on the question of the meaning of expires in 2020.
ViiV Healthcare did not sue under this patent.
protected by a basic patent and handed down its guidance on On 30 July 2012, Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Mylan notified ViiV 12 December 2013.
The CJEU did not answer the question whether Healthcare that it had filed an ANDA for Lexiva with a Paragraph IV Eli Lillys antibody is protected by the HGS patent, but confirmed certification asserting that patents claiming i the active ingredient that a functional definition of the product for which the SPC is sought expiring in 2018 and ii a polymorphic form of the active ingredient is sufficient in principle if the claims of the patent relate implicitly, but expiring 2020, are invalid, unenforceable, or not infringed.
Mylan is necessarily and specifically to the active ingredient covered by the the second generic company to file an ANDA for Lexiva, but the first SPC.
The UK High Court must now implement the guidance from the generic company to challenge the basic compound patent on the CJEU to decide the case.
A hearing date is yet to be set.
On 23 August 2012, ViiV Healthcare and its outcome of this litigation will have no effect on the Groups ability to licensor, Vertex Pharmaceuticals Incorporated, filed a patent market Benlysta.
infringement suit against Mylan on the patent claiming the active ingredient but not the patent claiming the polymorph in the United Epzicom Trizivir States District Court for the District of Delaware.
Mylan subsequently On 30 November 2007, the Groups affiliate, ViiV Healthcare, filed a declaratory judgment action against ViiV Healthcare alleging received notice that Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. Teva had filed that the polymorph patent is invalid and not infringed.
ViiV Healthcare an ANDA with a Paragraph IV certification for Epzicom the stipulated to non-infringement of the patent claiming the polymorph combination of lamivudine and abacavir.
The certification challenged and the parties filed a consent judgment on 20 December 2012 on only the patent covering the hemisulfate salt of abacavir, which the polymorph patent.
Trial is scheduled for 17 May 2014 for expires in 2018.
ViiV Healthcare did not sue Teva under this patent.
infringement of the basic active ingredient patent for Lexiva.
On 27 June 2011, ViiV Healthcare received notice that Teva had amended its ANDA for Epzicom to contain a Paragraph IV On 18 October 2012, Ranbaxy filed a Petition for Inter Parties Review certification for two additional patents listed in the Orange Book, in the United States Patent & Trademark Office USPTO alleging that alleging the patents were invalid, unenforceable or not infringed.
the basic compound patent covering the active ingredient is invalid.
The patents challenged in this new certification relate to a method of On 5 March 2013, the USPTO granted the petition.
The Inter Parties treating HIV using the combination expiring in 2016, and a certain Review proceeding was settled in October 2013 on terms that are crystal form of lamivudine expiring in 2016.
Healthcare filed suit against Teva under the combination patent in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware.
Lovaza In March 2009, the Group received notice that Teva Pharmaceuticals On 18 May 2011, ViiV Healthcare received notice that Lupin Ltd. USA, Inc. Teva, Par Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Par, and Apotex Inc. Lupin had filed an ANDA containing a Paragraph IV certification Apotex had filed ANDAs with a Paragraph IV certification alleging for Trizivir the triple combination of lamivudine, AZT and abacavir that two patents covering Lovaza omega-3-acid ethyl esters are alleging that three patents listed in the Orange Book for Trizivir were invalid, unenforceable, or not infringed.
The patents expire in March invalid, unenforceable or not infringed.
These patents relate to a 2013 and April 2017.
The Group is the licensee under these patents method of treating HIV using the triple combination expiring in 2016, and has marketing rights in the USA and Puerto Rico.
Pronova the hemisulfate salt of abacavir expiring in 2018, and a certain BioPharma Norge AS Pronova, the owner of the patents, sued Teva, crystal form of lamivudine expiring in 2016.
On 29 June 2011, ViiV Par and Apotex in the United States District Court for the District of Healthcare filed suit against Lupin under the patent covering the triple Delaware.
The Group was not a party to these suits.
combination in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware.
The District Court consolidated discovery in the Teva On 30 March 2011, Pronova entered into an agreement with Apotex Epzicom case with ViiV Healthcares patent infringement suit against to settle their patent litigation in the USA related to Lovaza.
The Lupin relating to Trizivir, as both cases involve the same patent settlement grants Apotex a licence to enter the US market with a covering the combination of lamivudine and abacavir.
generic version of Lovaza in the first quarter of 2015.
Other terms of the settlement are confidential.
On 17 December 2013, the United States District Court for the District of Delaware upheld the validity of the US patent with an expiry date in March 2016 which covers the combination of lamivudine and abacavir Epzicom and the triple combination of lamivudine, abacavir and zidovudine Trizivir.
GSK Annual Report 2013 205 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements A trial involving Teva and Par was held in March and April 2011, As of February 2014, the Group has reached agreements to settle and in May 2012, the District Court held the patent valid and infringed.
the substantial majority of federal and state cases pending in the US.
On 13 September 2013, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit Fourteen purported class actions on Avandia are pending in Canada.
ruled against Pronova in its patent litigation regarding Lovaza.
The Group has reached an agreement in principle to resolve the Reversing the District Courts ruling, the Court found the asserted single purported consumer class action in Israel, which has now been claims of Pronovas U. S. 5,656,667 patent invalid and remanded the approved by the Court.
The Group has been notified of 43 individual case to the District Court with orders to enter judgment in favour of claims in the UK.
Lawyers representing claimants in the UK have the ANDA filers.
Because the only other patent in the litigation, U. S. made an application to the High Court for the overall litigation to be 5,502,077, had expired earlier in 2013, the court found it unnecessary subject to a Group Litigation Order.
The Court has listed the to reach any issues regarding that patent.
On 15 October, Pronova application for a hearing date of 6 June 2014. filed a combined petition for panel rehearing and for rehearing en banc There are a number of purported class actions seeking economic with the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
The Court denied damages on behalf of third party payers and consumers asserting both petitions on 16 January 2014, thereby affirming the 13 claims arising under various state and federal laws, including the September 2013 decision of the Federal Circuit Court.
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act RICO, state Pronova and the Group also have received Paragraph IV notices unfair trade practices and or consumer protection laws.
In addition, from Endo Pharmaceuticals Endo, Sandoz, Inc. Sandoz, Strides three subrogation actions initiated by United Health Group, Inc. and Arcolab, Ltd.
Strides and Trygg Pharma AS Trygg advising that Humana Medical Plan Humana have been brought against the they have submitted abbreviated applications to the FDA for a generic Group.
One is a putative class action brought in the MDL Court form of Lovaza.
Pronova chose not to assert its patents against Endo, by Humana, which concerns Medicare Advantage claims.
Briefing Sandoz, Strides and Trygg while awaiting the ruling in the litigation in that action on threshold class certification issues remains pending.
against Teva and Par in the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
The other two are state court actions which concern non-Medicare The Group is not aware that the FDA has approved any generic Advantage claims.
These actions are stayed until mid-June 2014 copies of Lovaza to date.
to determine whether a private lien resolution program will resolve these claims.
Veramyst Paxil Seroxat and Paxil CR On 9 November 2011, the Group received notice that Sandoz, Inc. had filed an ANDA with a Paragraph IV certification for Veramyst The Group has received numerous lawsuits and claims alleging fluticasone furoate nasal spray, challenging the three patents listed that use of Paxil paroxetine has caused a variety of injuries.
Most in the Orange Book for Veramyst as invalid, unenforceable, or not of these lawsuits in recent years have alleged that the use of Paxil infringed.
All three patents expire in 2021.
On 23 December 2011, during pregnancy resulted in the birth of a child with birth defects the Group filed suit against Sandoz in the United States District or health issues.
Other lawsuits and claims have alleged that patients Court for the District of Delaware on all three patents.
A stay against who took Paxil committed or attempted to commit suicide or acts of FDA approval of Sandozs generic product was in place until the violence or that patients suffered symptoms on discontinuing earlier of a court decision adverse to the Group or May 2014.
had been scheduled to begin on 2 December 2013, but on 28 Pregnancy August 2013, the Group and Sandoz settled the litigation on terms The Group has reached agreements to settle the substantial that would allow Sandoz to enter the market with a generic competitor majority of the US claims relating to Paxil use during pregnancy to Veramyst in the third quarter of 2016 or earlier under certain as of February 2014, but a number of claims related to use during circumstances.
pregnancy are still pending, including several scheduled for trial in Product liability the Philadelphia state court Mass Tort Program MTP.
Other matters have been dismissed without payment.
In the US, the United States Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit ruled in June 2013 that of potential products to determine the safety and efficacy of GlaxoSmithKline LLC is a Delaware citizen for purposes of diversity products for use by humans following approval by regulatory jurisdiction in the US federal courts.
As a result of this ruling, the bodies.
Notwithstanding these efforts, when drugs and vaccines Group has or is seeking to remove to federal court numerous cases are introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated safety issues recently filed in the Philadelphia MTP and certain cases that were set may become, or be claimed by some to be, evident.
The Group is for trial in the MTP.
On 27 November 2013, in the Thomas Swindle currently a defendant in a number of product liability lawsuits related matter, the Pennsylvania Superior Court upheld a summary judgment to the Groups Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare in favour of the Group based on the expiration of the statute of products.
The most significant of those matters are described below.
On 27 December 2013, the plaintiffs in this case The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate of the expected petitioned for allowance of appeal to the Pennsylvania Supreme financial effect of the matters discussed in this category and has Court.
The Group plans to oppose the petition for allowance of included a provision for the matters below in the provision for legal appeal.
Currently, there are no trials scheduled in 2014. and other disputes, as also noted in Note 29, Other provisions.
There are two proposed, and one certified, class actions in Canada.
Avandia The Bartram action has been certified in British Columbia as a The Group has been named in product liability lawsuits on behalf of national class action and relates to cardiovascular defects.
An appeal individuals asserting personal injury claims arising out of the use of from that certification decision was dismissed in October 2013, and Avandia.
The federal cases filed against the Group are part of a the parties will therefore proceed to commence discovery.
multi-district litigation proceeding pending in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania the MDL Court.
Cases have also been filed in a number of state courts.
206 GSK Annual Report 2013 The Singh action in Alberta, also a proposed national class action, As of February 2014, the vast majority of individual cases previously seeks to certify a class relating to birth defects generally.
The pending in both the MDL and MTP have been dismissed, with fewer certification motion is likely to be be scheduled for some time in 2014. than ten active cases in the MDL and one active case in the MTP still There is also one inactive proposed national class action in British pending against the Group which is scheduled for trial on 10 Columbia which has been held in abeyance while the other November 2014.
One individual lawsuit, as well as five purported proceedings move forward through certification.
class actions asserting consumer fraud claims were also filed in Canada.
In 2013, the individual lawsuit was resolved, and one of the Acts of violence class actions was dismissed, leaving four putative class actions that As of February 2014, there were 10 pending matters, including two remain pending in Canada.
There are some filed and unfiled claims in lawsuits on appeal one pending in the United States Court of Turkey, the UK and elsewhere.
The Group voluntarily withdrew all Appeals for the Ninth Circuit and the other pending in Floridas zinc-containing formulations of Super Poligrip from the market in early Second District Court of Appeal concerning allegations that patients 2010. who took Paxil committed or attempted to commit suicide or acts of violence.
Sales and marketing and regulation The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate of the expected Discontinuation financial effect of the matters discussed in this category, and has In the UK, in late 2010, public funding was withdrawn from the included a provision for such matters in the provision for legal and claimants who had received funding to pursue litigation alleging that other disputes, except as noted below.
Matters for which the Group Paxil Seroxat had caused them to suffer from withdrawal reactions has made a provision are also noted in Note 29, Other provisions.
The majority of the claimants discontinued their claims.
In June 2013, the Group was informed that the Legal Aid China investigation Agency LAA formerly the Legal Services Commission is On 27 June 2013, a number of the Groups Pharmaceutical offices in considering whether to discharge the public funding certificate China were visited by government authorities of the Peoples following the recommendation of its Special Cases Review Panel that Republic of China PRC.
On 11 July 2013, the Ministry of Public the case has poor prospects of success.
The remaining claims have Security in China released a statement confirming an ongoing police not been prosecuted pending the outcome of the LAAs decision.
investigation into alleged serious economic crimes by GSK China.
The PRC, acting through various government agencies, continues its Poligrip investigation into alleged crimes and violations of law by GSK Chinas Beginning in 2005, a number of product liability lawsuits and claims operations.
The Group takes these allegations seriously and is were filed against the Group in both state and federal courts in the continuing to cooperate fully with the Chinese authorities in this USA, including purported class actions, alleging that the zinc in investigation.
Super Poligrip causes copper depletion and permanent neurologic The Group has informed the US Department of Justice, the US injury.
The federal cases were consolidated in the Denture Cream Securities and Exchange Commission and the UK Serious Fraud Adhesive multi-district litigation MDL in the United States District Office regarding the investigation.
It is not possible at this time to Court for the Southern District of Florida which was established in make a reliable estimate of the financial effect, if any, that could result June 2009.
Both the Group and Procter & Gamble were defendants from these matters.
Included in the MDL were four purported class actions asserting economic loss claims under state consumer Colorado investigation protection laws and claims for medical monitoring.
These original four On 2 July 2012, the Group announced that it had reached an putative class actions have now been dismissed.
In 2013, a putative agreement with the United States Government, multiple states and class action was filed in Puerto Rico, which was removed to federal the District of Columbia to conclude the Groups most significant court and transferred to the MDL where it remains pending as of ongoing United States federal government investigations, specifically, February 2014.
With two current exceptions one state court case i the United States Department of Justices investigation into the in Pennsylvania, and one state court case in small claims court in Groups sales and marketing practices relating to nine of its largest Tennessee, all of the state court cases were consolidated in the selling products, begun in February 2004: ii the Department of Philadelphia state court Mass Tort Program MTP.
Justices investigation of possible inappropriate use of the nominal price exception under the Medicaid Rebate Program: and iii the Department of Justices investigation of the development and marketing of Avandia, for a settlement payment of $3 billion.
The settlement resolved criminal and civil liabilities related to these investigations.
The payment was covered by the Groups existing provisions and funded through existing cash resources.
To date, 44 states and the District of Columbia have agreed to join the federal settlement agreement and receive all or a portion of their share of the settlement payment under the agreement.
GSK Annual Report 2013 207 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements The Group has been notified by a consortium of state attorneys Cidra third-party payer litigation general that they are investigating the conduct underlying the On 25 July 2013, a number of major US healthcare insurers filed suit non-Avandia federal and state sales and marketing settlements to against the Group in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania County Court of determine if the company violated state unfair and deceptive trade Common Pleas seeking compensation for reimbursements they made practices statutes.
There are 45 states known to be participating in for medicines manufactured at the Groups former Cidra plant in the investigation.
These insurers claim that the Group knowingly and illegally marketed and sold adulterated drugs manufactured under Avandia-related matters conditions non-compliant with cGMP and that they, as third-party As noted above, on 2 July 2012, the Group reached agreement with insurers, were unlawfully induced to pay for them.
the US Government, a number of states, and the District of Columbia The suit alleges both US federal and various state law causes of to resolve the federal governments Avandia investigation.
On 12 August 2013, the Group removed the case to the settlement resolved claims under federal state Medicaid programs.
United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania On 15 November 2012, the Group agreed to pay $90 million to settle and has moved to dismiss the complaint.
Oral argument on the motion claims by 37 states and the District of Columbia under state to dismiss was held on 4 February 2013, and the motion is currently consumer protection laws regarding the marketing and promotion under consideration by the District Court.
The manufacturing issues of Avandia.
at the Groups plant at Cidra were the subject of federal and state In 2013, the Group agreed to pay $229 million to resolve the individual claims that the Group resolved with the US federal Government in lawsuits filed by the Attorneys General Offices of Kentucky, Louisiana, 2010 and for which the Group has compliance obligations under a Maryland, Mississippi, New Mexico, South Carolina, Utah, and West Corporate Integrity Agreement with the US Government.
Virginia asserting various statutory and common law claims relating to the development and marketing of Avandia and, with regard to the Paxil Seroxat state of Louisiana, other of the Groups products.
These states had In 2004, the Group settled a lawsuit filed by the New York State not participated in the federal government settlement.
Attorney Generals office alleging that the Group failed to disclose data on the use of Paxil in children and adolescents.
In 2007 and The Group is also defending an action by the County of Santa Clara, 2008, the Group made class settlements of lawsuits brought by California, which was brought under Californias consumer protection consumers and third-party payers, respectively, for economic laws seeking civil penalties and restitution.
Pre-trial activities are damages allegedly resulting from prescriptions of Paxil to children scheduled to occur through Q2 2014.
If the case proceeds to trial, and adolescents.
The Group denied liability in these settlements.
In the MDL Court will send the case back to California federal court for 2010, plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed a similar purported class action a bench trial.
filed on behalf of governmental entities that paid for prescriptions of Two Native American groups the Cherokee Nation in Oklahoma and Paxil to minors.
There remains a similar purported class action in the Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians have filed lawsuits in their Canada seeking economic damages on behalf of individuals who respective tribal courts, alleging common law claims, including fraud, purchased Paxil for use by patients under the age of 18.
The negligence, breach of warranty, and unjust enrichment.
The Cherokee certification application as part of this purported class action was Nation matter relates to the sale and marketing of Avandia, whereas adjourned in 2012, to permit the filing of further evidence, and is likely the Choctaw complaint relates to Avandia and other Group products.
Average wholesale price SEC DOJ FCPA enquiry A number of states through their respective Attorneys General, and The US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC and the US most of the counties in New York State, filed civil lawsuits in state Department of Justice DOJ initiated an industry-wide enquiry in and federal courts against the Group and many other pharmaceutical 2010 into whether pharmaceutical companies may have engaged in companies claiming damages and restitution due to average violations of the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act FCPA relating to wholesale price AWP and or wholesale acquisition cost WAC the sale of pharmaceuticals, including in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, price reporting for pharmaceutical products covered by the states China, Germany, Italy, Poland, Russia and Saudi Arabia.
The Group is Medicaid programmes.
These cases alleged that the Group reported one of the companies that have been asked to respond to this enquiry or caused to be reported false AWP and WAC prices, which, in turn, and is cooperating with the SEC and DOJ.
The Group has informed allegedly caused State Medicaid agencies to reimburse providers the DOJ and SEC about the investigation of its China operations by more money for covered medicines than the agencies intended.
The the Chinese government that was initiated in 2013. states have sought recovery on behalf of the states as payers and, in some cases, on behalf of in-state patients as consumers.
The Group Anti-trust competition has resolved AWP claims by state Medicaid programmes in almost The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate of the expected all of the states through the Groups settlement agreement with the financial effect of the matters discussed in this category and has federal government announced in September 2005 and in multiple included a provision for such matters in the provision for legal and additional settlements since then.
Litigation concerning AWP issues other disputes, except as noted below.
Matters for which the Group is continuing with two states, Illinois and Wisconsin.
has made a provision are also noted in Note 29, Other provisions.
HIV division enquiry On 26 July 2010, the Group received a subpoena from the Eastern District of New Yorks US Attorneys Office regarding sales and marketing practices for three HIV products, as well as educational programmes, grants or payments to physicians regarding any drug used to treat HIV-infected adults.
On 5 September 2012, the Group was advised that the US Government had concluded its investigation and declined to intervene in a qui tam lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York.
The suit has been dismissed and the matter is concluded.
208 GSK Annual Report 2013 EU sector enquiry Flonase In 2008, the European Commission launched an enquiry to Purported direct and indirect purchaser class actions were filed in investigate possible anti-competitive conditions in the pharmaceutical the United States District Court for the Eastern District of sector.
The Final Report of the Pharmaceutical Sector Inquiry was Pennsylvania alleging the Group illegally maintained monopoly power published on 8 July 2009.
As announced in the Final Report, the in the market for Flonase and charged plaintiffs supracompetitive Commission decided to continue monitoring patent settlement prices.
Additionally, a suit was filed by Roxane Laboratories, Inc. agreements between originator and generic companies relating to a generic competitor, seeking lost profits from the Groups alleged EU markets.
As a result, the Group has provided input to the reports actions unlawfully delaying Roxanes entry into the market.
On 3 February 2014 the predicate for all of these allegations was the filing by the Group Group received a questionnaire relating to patent settlements during of allegedly sham citizen petitions and subsequent litigation.
The Group responded to the Commission on 17 February On 20 December 2012, the Group reached agreement to settle the 2014.
No provision has been made for this matter.
litigation with the direct purchasers for a payment of $150 million and an agreement to settle with the indirect purchaser class and other EU enquiry: Tyverb and Combivir indirect purchasers for a payment of $45 million.
On 17 December 2012, the Group and ViiV Healthcare received a The court approved the class action settlements in 2013, and this request for information from the European Commission regarding the matter is concluded.
application of direct to pharmacy distribution of the Groups product, Tyverb, and ViiV Healthcares product, Combivir.
The Group and ViiV Lamictal Healthcare have provided the requested information.
No provision Purported direct and indirect purchaser class actions were filed in has been made for this matter.
the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging UK Office of Fair Trading Competition Act investigation that the Group and Teva Pharmaceuticals unlawfully conspired to On 12 August 2011, the UK Office of Fair Trading OFT launched delay generic competition for Lamictal, resulting in their being a formal investigation of the Group and other pharmaceutical overcharged.
A separate count accuses the Group of monopolising companies for potential infringement of the Competition Act.
The District Court recently denied the motion of the investigation focuses on whether: i litigation settlements between purported direct purchaser class for reconsideration of the order the Group and potential suppliers of generic paroxetine formulations, granting GSKs motion to dismiss in December 2012.
The plaintiffs entered between 2001 and 2003, had as their object or effect the have filed a notice of appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for prevention, restriction, or distortion of competition in the UK, and ii the Third Circuit.
The Group also plans to move to have the purported the Group has infringed its dominant position by making payments indirect purchaser class dismissed following the outcome of the to potential suppliers of generic paroxetine with the aim of restricting direct purchaser case.
the development of full generic competition in the UK.
The Group Nevada vaccines antitrust litigation terminated the agreements at issue in 2004.
The OFT investigation The Vaccine Center, a for-profit vaccination centre in Las Vegas, covers issues that were also investigated by the European Nevada, alleges that the Group, along with a vendor, engaged in Commission in 2005 2006 in respect of paroxetine in the European price discrimination by providing lower-priced vaccine products to Union, and also in 2008, as part of the European Commission the Southern Nevada Health District a 340B entity which is entitled Pharmaceutical Sector enquiry.
On 2 March 2012, the Commission to lower-priced pharmaceutical products under a US federal announced that it had formally concluded its enquiry with no further healthcare program, allegedly creating a competitive disadvantage action.
In March 2012, the OFT decided to focus its investigation and resulting in antitrust injury to The Vaccine Center.
The complaint on potential anti-competitive aspects of the paroxetine settlement alleges violation of the Sherman Act, Robinson-Patman Act, and a agreements and dropped the investigation in relation to potential claim under Nevada state law.
The Group has responded to the abuse of dominance.
However, in February 2013, the OFT decided complaint.
No trial date has yet been set.
to re-open the dominance aspects of the matter.
The Group has cooperated with the OFT in its investigations since Wellbutrin SR the outset.
On 19 April 2013, the OFT issued its Statement of In December 2004, January 2005 and February 2005, lawsuits, Objections SO setting out the decision that the OFT would propose several of which purported to be class actions, were filed in the to make and allowing the affected parties to make representations on United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania the proposed decision.
The OFTs core theory of harm is that the against the Group on behalf of direct and indirect purchasers of transfer of value, from an originator company to a potential competitor, Wellbutrin SR.
The complaints alleged violations of US anti-trust laws made in return for restrictions on the potential competitor entering the through sham litigation and fraud on the patent office by the Group in market, necessarily restricts competition because it delays true obtaining and enforcing patents covering Wellbutrin SR.
The generic competition and the accompanying price reduction.
This complaints followed the introduction of generic competition to includes the situation where value is transferred in the context of Wellbutrin SR in April 2004, after district and appellate court rulings settling patent litigation.
In the SO, the OFT states that it would that a generic manufacturer did not infringe the Groups patents.
propose a fine on GSK, but no details were provided on how any fine On 21 November 2011, the District Court approved the Groups might be calculated.
On 7 August 2013, GSK submitted its response settlement with the certified class of direct purchasers and the to the SO, rebutting the OFTs arguments, and, on 18 October 2013, settlement has been concluded.
On 11 January 2012, the Group GSK presented its case to the OFT at an oral hearing.
After the reached agreement in principle to settle the claims of all the indirect hearing, GSK also responded in writing to some follow-up questions.
The District Court approved the The OFT has indicated that it will decide how to proceed with this settlements in 2013, and this matter is concluded.
case in Q1 2014, with a final decision likely to be issued by October 2014.
The OFTs decision may be appealed to the Competition Appeal Tribunal.
GSK Annual Report 2013 209 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements In addition to the private litigant suits, on 12 December 2011, the US Wellbutrin XL SEC filed a formal complaint against Stiefel and Charles Stiefel in the Actions have been filed against Biovail Corporation Biovail and the United States District Court for the District of Florida alleging that Group in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Stiefel and its principals violated federal securities laws by inducing Pennsylvania by purported classes of direct and indirect purchasers Stiefel employees to sell their shares in the employee stock plan back who allege unlawful monopolisation and other anti-trust violations to the company at a greatly undervalued price and without disclosing related to the enforcement of Biovails Wellbutrin XL patents and the to employees that the company was about to be sold.
This matter filing, by Biovail, of citizen petitions.
Both direct and indirect likewise has been stayed pending a ruling on the Finnerty appeal.
purchaser classes have been certified.
The District Court granted the The Group has made a provision for the Stiefel litigation.
Groups motion for partial summary judgment primarily on immunity grounds.
On 7 November 2012, the District Court also granted the Benlysta securities litigation Groups motion for a stay of all proceedings except for a limited On 10 November 2011, a class action suit was filed in the United amount of ongoing discovery in light of the US Supreme Courts States District Court for the District of Maryland alleging that Human grant of a petition in the FTC v. Watson reverse payment patent Genome Sciences, Inc. HGS, certain of its individual officers and litigation case.
directors and the Group made statements about the clinical trials for On 19 December 2013, the District Court held a hearing in Benlysta that failed to disclose suicides among trial participants, and connection with the remaining issue in the case, the possible that, by withholding this information, the defendants caused HGS antitrust liability arising from the settlement of the underlying patent stock to be artificially inflated, harming anyone who purchased HGS infringement litigation.
The court recently ordered the parties to stock at the inflated price.
submit a plan for additional discovery and proceedings on this In November 2011, a second action was filed in the same federal remaining issue.
The two cases have been combined.
In May 2012, the Group and HGS filed motions to dismiss the suits.
Oral argument was heard Commercial and corporate in September 2012.
On 26 March 2013, the court ruled in favour of Where the Group is able to make a reliable estimate of the expected GSK and HGS on the motions.
This matter is now concluded.
financial effect, if any, for the matters discussed in this category, it has included a provision in respect of such matters in the provision Environmental matters for legal and other disputes as set out in Note 29, Other provisions.
The Group has been notified of its potential responsibility relating to No provision has been made for any of the following matters except past operations and its past waste disposal practices at certain sites, as indicated below.
Some of these matters are the subject of litigation, including proceedings initiated by the US federal or state Securities ERISA class actions governments for waste disposal, site remediation costs and tort Stiefel actions brought by private parties.
On 6 July 2009, a class action suit brought on behalf of current and The Group has been advised that it may be a responsible party at former employees of Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. Stiefel was filed in the approximately 23 sites, of which 12 appear on the National Priority United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida.
The List created by the Comprehensive Environmental Response complaint alleges that Stiefel and its officers and directors violated Compensation and Liability Act Superfund.
These proceedings US Employee Retirement Income Security Act ERISA and federal seek to require the operators of hazardous waste facilities, and state securities laws by inducing Stiefel employees to sell their transporters of waste to the sites and generators of hazardous shares in the employee stock plan back to Stiefel at a greatly waste disposed of at the sites to clean up the sites or to reimburse undervalued price and without disclosing to employees that Stiefel the US Government for cleanup costs.
In most instances, the was about to be sold to the Group.
On 21 July 2011, the District Group is involved as an alleged generator of hazardous waste.
Court denied plaintiffs motion for class certification.
In October 2011, the District Court granted the defendants motions for summary Although Superfund provides that the defendants are jointly and judgment, dismissing all but one of the remaining plaintiffs in the severally liable for clean up costs, these proceedings are frequently litigation.
Trial of claims of that one plaintiff, Timothy Finnerty, took resolved on the basis of the nature and quantity of waste disposed place in May 2012 and resulted in a $1.5 million jury verdict in favour of by the generator at the site.
The Groups proportionate liability for of Mr. Finnerty on his securities claims.
The Group has appealed the cleanup costs has been substantially determined for about 19 of the verdict, and oral argument on the appeal is scheduled for 27 February sites referred to above.
Separately, the Group has settled Mr. Finnertys ERISA claims.
The Groups potential liability varies greatly from site to site.
While the Additionally, Stiefel won a complete defence verdict in the Fried case, cost of investigation, study and remediation at such sites could, over tried in federal court in Florida in October 2013.
The remaining case time, be significant, the Group routinely accrues amounts related to in Florida Martinolich has been stayed pending the outcome of the its share of the liability for such matters.
In addition to Finnerty, two other matters are on appeal to the Eleventh Circuit: Bacon in which summary judgment was granted in plaintiffs favour and MacKay in which summary judgment was granted in Stiefels favour.
Discovery continues in the Georgia and New York suits.
All of these lawsuits involve claims similar to those brought in Finnerty.
