Crisis and continuity management Strategic priorities: Deliver more products of value.
Risk definition Mitigating activities Inability to recover and sustain critical operations following a disruption The Group has in place crisis management and business continuity or to respond to a crisis incident in a timely manner regardless of cause.
plans over all critical business operations.
These plans include authorised response and recovery strategies, key areas of responsibility and clear communication plans.
We have established a CCM Risk impact governance board with representatives from across the Group to Failure to manage crisis and continuity management CCM effectively provide vital information to the CCM programme team regarding new can lead to prolonged business disruption, greater damage to the threats, acquisitions or significant business or organisational changes.
Groups assets, and risk of a medicines supply disruption to patients and could materially and adversely affect our financial results.
Delays A dedicated team of CCM experts supports the business.
Their to R&D activities and delivery of our products to consumers and responsibilities include: Coordinating crisis management and business patients who rely on them could also expose us to litigation or regulatory continuity training: facilitating exercises and monitoring to provide for action, materially and adversely affect our financial results and lead to global consistency and alignment: and centrally storing and monitoring reputational damage.
plan updates for crisis management plans and business continuity plans supporting our critical business processes to help ensure an Context appropriate level of readiness and response capability is maintained.
We also develop and maintain partnerships with external bodies like Patients, consumers and healthcare professionals rely on our products the Business Continuity Institute and the UN International Strategy for being readily available when needed even in the event of a crisis.
Disaster Risk Reduction which helps improve our business continuity Our international operations, and those of our partners, maintain a initiatives in disaster prone areas.
vast global footprint exposing our people, facilities, operations and information technology to potential disruption resulting from a natural We continually improve training programmes and tools based on event eg storm or earthquake, a man-made event eg civil unrest, learning from plan activations.
For example, in-depth video case studies terrorism, or a global emergency eg global public health emergency.
were created to share lessons learned from how we responded to the 2011 Japan Earthquake and the 2012 US super-storm Sandy.
We regularly evaluate and introduce new tools to improve our CCM practices.
