Directors conflicts of interest US law and regulation All Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to the a situation in which they have, or could have, a direct or indirect conflict company because our shares are quoted on the New York Stock of interest or possible conflict with the company.
The duty applies, in Exchange NYSE in the form of ADS.
particular, to the exploitation of any property, information or opportunity whether or not the company could take advantage of it.
Our Articles NYSE rules provide a general power for the Board to authorise such conflicts.
In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK The Nominations Committee has been authorised by the Board to corporate governance practices instead of those applied in the USA, grant and periodically, but in any event annually, to review any provided that we explain any significant variations.
This explanation is potential or actual conflict authorisations.
Directors are not counted contained in our Form 20-F filing, which can be accessed from the in the quorum for the authorisation of their own actual or potential Securities and Exchange Commissions SEC EDGAR database or conflicts.
Authorisations granted are recorded by the Company via our website.
NYSE rules that came into effect in 2005 require us Secretary in a register and are noted by the Board at its next meeting.
to file annual and interim written affirmations concerning the Audit & Risk Committee and our statement on significant differences in On an ongoing basis, the Directors are responsible for informing the corporate governance.
Company Secretary of any new actual or potential conflicts that may arise or if there are any changes in circumstances that may affect an Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 authorisation previously given.
Even when provided with Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in the authorisation, a Director is not absolved from his or her statutory duty USA, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Sarbanesto promote the success of the company.
If an actual conflict arises Oxley is a wide-ranging piece of legislation concerned largely with post-authorisation, the Board may choose to exclude the Director financial reporting and corporate governance.
from receipt of the relevant information and participation in the debate, or suspend the Director from the Board, or, as a last resort, As recommended by the SEC, the company has established a require the Director to resign.
The Committee reports to the CEO, the CFO and to the Audit & Risk Committee.
It is chaired by the Company The Nominations Committee reviewed the register of potential Secretary and the members consist of senior managers from finance, conflict authorisations in October 2013 and reported to the Board legal, corporate communications and investor relations.
that the conflicts had been appropriately authorised and that the process for authorisation continues to operate effectively.
Except as External legal counsel, the external auditors and internal experts are described in Note 35 to the financial statements, Related party invited to attend its meetings periodically.
It has responsibility for transactions, during or at the end of the financial year no Director or considering the materiality of information and, on a timely basis, connected person had any material interest in any contract of determining the disclosure of that information.
It has responsibility for significance with a Group company.
the timely filing of reports with the SEC and the formal review of the Annual Report and Form 20-F.
In 2013, the Committee met 10 times.
Independent advice Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the Annual Report contains a The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or statement as to whether a member of our Audit & Risk Committee more of the Directors feel it is necessary to take independent legal ARC is an audit committee financial expert as defined by Sarbanesand or financial advice at the companys expense.
Such a statement for each of the relevant members of the ARC procedure, which is set out on our website, to enable them to do so.
Stacey Cartwright, Judy Lewent and Tom fide Swaan is included in the Audit & Risk Committee report on page 89.
Additional disclosure Indemnification of Directors requirements arise under section 302 and section 404 of SarbanesQualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined in the Oxley in respect of disclosure controls and procedures and internal Companies Act 2006 are in force for the benefit of Directors and control over financial reporting.
former Directors who held office during 2013 and up to the signing of the Annual Report.
Change of control and essential contracts We do not have contracts or other arrangements which individually are fundamental to the ability of the business to operate effectively, nor is the company party to any material agreements that would take effect, be altered, or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
We do not have agreements with any Director that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the companys share plans may cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest on a takeover.
Details of the termination provisions in the companys framework for contracts for Executive Directors are given on pages 122 and 123.
GSK Annual Report 2013 247 Investor information Shareholder information Section 302: Corporate responsibility for financial reports Section 404: Managements annual report on internal control over financial reporting Sarbanes-Oxley also introduced a requirement for the CEO and the CFO to complete formal certifications, confirming that: In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of SarbanesOxley, the following report is provided by management in respect of they have each reviewed the Annual Report and Form 20-F the companys internal control over financial reporting as defined in based on their knowledge, the Annual Report and Form 20-F Rules 13a-15 f and 15d-15 f under the US Securities Exchange contains no material misstatements or omissions Act of 1934 : based on their knowledge, the financial statements and other management is responsible for establishing and maintaining financial information fairly present, in all material respects, the adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Group.
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as of the Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide dates, and for the periods, presented in the Annual Report and reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting Form 20-F and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with IFRS they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures that ensure that material information is management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal made known to them, and have evaluated the effectiveness of control over financial reporting based on the framework, Internal these controls and procedures as at the year-end, the results of Control Integrated Framework 1992 issued by the Committee of such evaluation being contained in the Annual Report and Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission Form 20-F there have been no changes in the Groups internal control over financial reporting during 2013 that have materially affected, or are they are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal reasonably likely to affect materially, the Groups internal control control over financial reporting that provides reasonable assurance over financial reporting regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with management has assessed the effectiveness of internal control generally accepted accounting principles over financial reporting as at 31 December 2013 and its conclusion will be filed as part of the Groups Form 20-F, and they have disclosed in the Annual Report and Form 20-F any changes in internal controls over financial reporting during the  LLP, which has audited the consolidated period covered by the Annual Report and Form 20-F that have financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the 2013, has also assessed the effectiveness of the Groups internal companys internal control over financial reporting, and they have control over financial reporting under Auditing Standard No.
5 of disclosed, based on their most recent evaluation of internal control the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
over financial reporting, to the external auditors and the ARC, all Their audit report will be filed with the Groups Form 20-F. significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls over financial reporting which are Section 13 r of the US Securities Exchange Act reasonably likely to affect adversely the companys ability to record, Section 13 r of US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, process, summarise and report financial information, and any fraud requires issuers to make specific disclosure in their Annual Reports of regardless of materiality involving persons that have a significant certain types of dealings with Iran, including transactions or dealings role in the companys internal control over financial reporting.
with government-owned entities, as well as dealings with entities sanctioned for activities related to terrorism or proliferation of weapons The Group has carried out an evaluation under the supervision of mass destruction, even when those activities are not prohibited by and with the participation of its management, including the CEO US law and do not involve US persons.
The Group does not have a and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation legal entity based in Iran, but it does export certain pharmaceutical and of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at vaccine products from its Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses to 31 December 2013.
Iran, via sales by non-US entities, to two privately held Iranian There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system distributors and a distributor in the UAE.
The Group also does of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility business, via non-US entities, in other jurisdictions targeted by of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls sanctions laws, including Cuba, Syria, and Sudan.
We do not believe and procedures.
Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls that any of the Groups direct dealings with Iran require specific and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving disclosure under these requirements, and the Groups policies limit their control objectives.
sales to Iran to products of high medical public health need The CEO and CFO expect to complete these certifications and determined in part using criteria set by the World Health Organization.
report their conclusions on the effectiveness of disclosure controls The Group has no direct knowledge of the identity of its distributors and procedures in February 2014, following which the certificates downstream customers, and it is possible that these customers include will be filed with the SEC as part of the Groups Form 20-F. entities, such as government-owned hospitals and pharmacies, that are owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the Iranian government or by persons or entities sanctioned in connection with terrorism or proliferation activities.
Because the Group has no direct knowledge of its distributors customers, it cannot establish the proportion of gross revenue or sales potentially attributable to entities affiliated with the Iranian government or parties sanctioned for disclosable activities.
As a result, the Group is reporting the entire gross revenues 11.3 million and net profits 4.2 million from the Groups sales to Iran in 2013.
