Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc prepared under UK GAAP Disclosure of information to auditors Directors statement of responsibilities The Directors in office at the date of this Report have each confirmed in relation to the companys financial statements that: The Directors are responsible for preparing the parent company, so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information GlaxoSmithKline plc, financial statements and the Remuneration of which the companys auditors are unaware: and Report in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken UK Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in of that information.
accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards and This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance applicable law United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the parent company financial statements unless they are satisfied that Going concern basis they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company for After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that period.
that the company has adequate resources to continue in operational In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to select suitable accounting policies and then apply them adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
consistently: The UK Corporate Governance Code make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles and prudent: and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code maintained state with regard to the parent company financial statements that by the Financial Reporting Council, as described in the Corporate applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject Governance section on pages 82 to 95, and has complied with its to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent provisions.
The Board further considers that the Annual Report, taken company financial statements.
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting performance, business and strategy.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the As required by the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules, the financial position of the company and to enable them to ensure that auditors have considered the Directors statement of compliance in the parent company financial statements and Remuneration Report relation to those points of the UK Corporate Governance Code which comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible are specified for their review.
for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The parent company financial statements for the year ended 31 Sir Christopher Gent December 2013, comprising the balance sheet for the year ended Chairman 31 December 2013 and supporting notes, are set out on pages 26 February 2014 213 to 216 of this report.
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the parent company financial statements are set out in the Independent Auditors report on page 212.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 are included in the Annual Report, which is published in printed form and made available on our website.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report on our website in accordance with UK legislation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
Access to the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable legislation may be different.
The Strategic Report and risk sections of the Annual Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
