US shareholders Stamp duty This summary only applies to a shareholder who is a citizen or UK stamp duty or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions, be resident of the USA or a domestic corporation or a person that is payable on any transfer of shares to the ADR custodian or depository otherwise subject to US federal income tax on a net income basis at a rate of 1.5% of the amount of any consideration provided if in respect of the shares or ADR that holds shares or ADR as capital transferred on sale, or their value if transferred for no consideration.
assets, is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes and does not No SDRT would be payable on the transfer of, or agreement to hold shares for the purposes of a trade, profession or vocation that transfer an ADR.
No UK stamp duty should be payable on the is carried on in the UK through a branch or agency.
transfer of an ADR provided that any instrument of transfer is The summary also does not address the tax treatment of holders that executed and remains at all times outside the UK.
Any stamp duty are subject to special tax rules, such as banks, tax-exempt entities, on the transfer of an ADR would be payable at a rate of 0.5% of the insurance companies, dealers in securities or currencies, persons consideration for the transfer.
Any sale of the underlying shares that hold shares or ADR as part of an integrated investment would, subject to certain exceptions, result in liability to UK stamp including a straddle comprised of a share or ADR and one or more duty or, as the case may be, SDRT at a rate of 0.5%.
other positions, and persons that own directly or indirectly 10% or more of the voting stock of the company.
Annual General Meeting 2014 2.30pm UK on Wednesday, 7 May 2014 Taxation of dividends The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, The gross amount of dividends received is treated as foreign source Westminster, London SW1P 3EE dividend income for US tax purposes.
It is not eligible for the dividend received deduction allowed to US corporations.
Dividends on ADR The AGM is the companys principal forum for communication are payable in US dollars: dividends on shares are payable in pounds with private shareholders.
In addition to the formal business, there will Sterling.
Dividends paid in pounds Sterling will be included in income be a presentation by the CEO on the performance of the Group and in the US dollar amount calculated by reference to the exchange rate its future development.
There will be an opportunity for questions to on the day the dividends are received by the holder.
Subject to be asked to the Board.
Chairmen of the Boards Committees will take certain exceptions for short-term or hedged positions, an individual questions relating to those Committees.
eligible US holder will be subject to US taxation at a maximum rate Investors holding shares through a nominee service should arrange of 23.8% in respect of qualified dividends.
with that nominee service to be appointed as a proxy in respect of Taxation of capital gains their shareholding in order to attend and vote at the meeting.
Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax, but ADR holders wishing to attend the meeting must obtain a proxy from will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale or other BNY Mellon.
This will enable them to attend and vote on the business disposal of shares or ADR.
Such gains will be long-term capital gains to be transacted.
ADR holders may instruct BNY Mellon as to the subject to reduced rates of taxation for individual holders if the way in which the shares represented by their ADR should be voted by shares or ADR were held for more than one year.
completing and returning the voting card provided by the bank.
Information reporting and backup withholding Documents on display Dividends and payments of the proceeds on a sale of shares or The Articles of Association of the company and other documents ADR, paid within the USA or through certain US-related financial referred to in this Annual Report are available for inspection at the intermediaries are subject to information reporting and may be companys registered office and on our website and will be made subject to backup withholding unless the US holder is a corporation available for inspection at the AGM.
or other exempt recipient or provides a taxpayer identification number and certifies that no loss of exemption has occurred.
Non-US holders generally are not subject to information reporting or backup withholding, but may be required to provide a certification of their non-US status in connection with payments received.
Any amounts withheld will be allowed as a refund or credit against a holders US federal income tax liability provided the required information is furnished to the Internal Revenue Service.
Estate and gift taxes Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is not generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
