Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 2 Accounting principles and policies continued 3 Key accounting judgements and estimates In preparing the financial statements, management is required Taxation to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid applying assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported in the financial tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the statements.
Actual amounts and results could differ from those balance sheet date.
The following are considered to be the key accounting judgements and estimates made.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and Turnover liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable Revenue is recognised when title and risk of loss is passed to the that future taxable profits will be available against which the customer, reliable estimates can be made of relevant deductions temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on and all relevant obligations have been fulfilled, such that the temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, earnings process is regarded as being complete.
associates and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal Gross turnover is reduced by rebates, discounts, allowances of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that and product returns given or expected to be given, which vary by the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
product arrangements and buying groups.
These arrangements with Deferred tax is provided using rates of tax that have been enacted purchasing organisations are dependent upon the submission of or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
claims some time after the initial recognition of the sale.
Accruals are made at the time of sale for the estimated rebates, discounts Derivative financial instruments and hedging or allowances payable or returns to be made, based on available Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to market information and historical experience.
The principal derivative instruments used by GSK are Because the amounts are estimated they may not fully reflect the foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps and forward foreign final outcome, and the amounts are subject to change dependent exchange contracts.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative upon, amongst other things, the types of buying group and product financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are classified as held-for-trading The level of accrual is reviewed and adjusted regularly in the light of and are carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
Derivatives contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, past experience designated as hedging instruments are classified on inception and projected market conditions.
Market conditions are evaluated as cash flow hedges, net investment hedges or fair value hedges.
using wholesaler and other third-party analyses, market research Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow data and internally generated information.
Future events could hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent cause the assumptions on which the accruals are based to change, that the hedges are effective.
Ineffective portions are recognised in which could affect the future results of the Group.
Amounts deferred in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement when the hedged Taxation item affects profit or loss.
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid, and Net investment hedges are accounted for in a similar way to cash deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the tax flow hedges.
bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts, at the rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value balance sheet date.
hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with the changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do temporary differences can be utilised, based on managements not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in assumptions relating to the amounts and timing of future taxable the income statement.
Factors affecting the tax charge in future years are set out in Note 14, Taxation.
A 1% change in the Groups effective tax rate Discounting in 2013 would have changed the total tax charge for the year by Where the time effect of money is material, balances are discounted approximately 66 million.
to current values using appropriate rates of interest.
The unwinding of the discounts is recorded in finance income and finance expense.
The Group has open tax issues with a number of revenue authorities.
Where an outflow of funds is believed to be probable and a reliable estimate of the outcome of the dispute can be made, management provides for its best estimate of the liability.
These estimates take into account the specific circumstances of each dispute and relevant external advice, are inherently judgemental and could change substantially over time as new facts emerge and each dispute progresses.
Details relating to significant unresolved disputes are set out in Note 14, Taxation.
GSK continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from open assessments.
Where open issues exist the ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of negotiations with the relevant tax authorities or, if necessary, litigation proceedings.
140 GSK Annual Report 2013 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 3 K ey accounting judgements and estimates The costs of providing pensions and other post-employment continued benefits are charged to the income statement in accordance with IAS 19 Employee benefits over the period during which benefit Legal and other disputes is derived from the employees services.
The costs are assessed The Group provides for anticipated settlement costs where an on the basis of assumptions selected by management.
These outflow of resources is considered probable and a reliable estimate assumptions include future earnings and pension increases, may be made of the likely outcome of the dispute and legal and discount rates, expected long-term rates of return on assets and other expenses arising from claims against the Group.
These mortality rates, and are disclosed in Note 28, Pensions and other estimates take into account the specific circumstances of each post-employment benefits.
dispute and relevant external advice, are inherently judgmental and The expected long-term rates of return on bonds are determined could change substantially over time as new facts emerge and each based on the portfolio mix of index-linked, government and dispute progresses.
Details of the status and various uncertainties corporate bonds.
An equity risk premium is added to this for involved in the significant unresolved disputes are set out in Note equities.
Discount rates are derived from AA rated corporate bond yields The companys Directors, having taken legal advice, have except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate established provisions after taking into account the relevant bonds where government bond yields are used.
Sensitivity analysis facts and circumstances of each matter and in accordance with is provided in Note 28, Pensions and other post-employment accounting requirements.
In respect of product liability claims benefits, but a 0.25% reduction in the discount rate would lead to related to certain products there is sufficient history of claims made an increase in the net pension deficit of approximately 554 million and settlements to enable management to make a reliable estimate and an increase in the annual pension cost of approximately 32 of the provision required to cover unasserted claims.
The selection of different assumptions could affect the may become involved in legal proceedings, in respect of which it future results of the Group.
is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect, if any, that will result from ultimate resolution of the proceedings.
In these cases, appropriate disclosure about such cases would be included, but no provision would be made and no contingent liability can be quantified.
At 31 December 2013 provisions for legal and other disputes amounted to 0.6 billion 2012 0.5 billion.
The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
The position could change over time and, therefore, there can be no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any legal proceedings will not exceed the amount of the provisions reported in the Groups financial statements by a material amount.
Goodwill and other intangible asset impairments Goodwill is deemed to have an indefinite life and so is not amortised.
Annual impairment tests of the cash generating units to which goodwill is allocated are performed.
Impairment tests are based on established market multiples or risk-adjusted future cash flows discounted using appropriate interest rates.
The assumptions used in these impairment tests are set out in Note 18, Goodwill.
In each case the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result in an impairment of the related goodwill.
Impairment tests on other intangible assets are undertaken if events occur which call into question the carrying values of the assets.
Where brands are not amortised, they are subject to annual impairment tests.
Valuations for impairment tests are based on established market multiples or risk-adjusted future cash flows over the estimated useful life of the asset, where limited, discounted using appropriate interest rates as set out in Note 19, Other intangible assets.
The assumptions relating to future cash flows, estimated useful lives and discount rates are based on business forecasts and are therefore inherently judgemental.
Future events could cause the assumptions used in these impairment tests to change with a consequent adverse effect on the future results of the Group.
