Investor information Principal risks and uncertainties Commercial practices and scientific engagement Strategic priority: Deliver more products of value.
Risk definition Mitigating activities Failure to engage in commercial and or scientific activities that are We are committed to legitimate Scientific Engagement and the ethical consistent with the letter and spirit of legal, industry, or the Groups and responsible commercialisation of medicines to support our mission requirements relating to marketing and communications about our to improve the quality of human life by enabling people to do more, medicines and associated therapeutic areas: appropriate interactions feel better, and live longer.
To accomplish this mission, we engage with healthcare professionals HCPs and patients: and legitimate and the healthcare community in various ways to advance our scientific transparent transfer of value.
knowledge as well as to provide important information about our medicines.
Risk impact We have an obligation to learn from Scientific Engagement interactions Failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations may result and provide accurate and complete information through appropriate in governmental investigation, regulatory action and legal proceedings channels: in a careful, correct, non-promotional manner.
Researchers, brought against the Group by governmental and private plaintiffs.
HCPs, healthcare organisations HCOs and other external experts that Failure to provide accurate and complete information related to our we engage should be fairly compensated for services and expertise products may result in incomplete awareness of the benefit:risk profile provided.
However, payments must not be excessive and must never of our medicines and possibly suboptimal treatment of patients.
Any of be or be perceived to be an inducement or reward for prescribing our these consequences could materially and adversely affect our financial products.
Any practices that are found to be misaligned with our values Promotion of approved medicines helps ensure that HCPs globally could also result in reputational damage and dilute trust established have access to information they need, that patients have access to the with key stakeholders.
medicines they need and that medicines are prescribed and used in a manner that provides the maximum healthcare benefit to patients.
We Context are committed to communicating information related to our approved The Group disseminates information about its products through both products in a responsible, legal, and ethical manner.
promotion and non-promotional Scientific Engagement.
The latter is We have taken action at all levels of the Group to enhance and improve the interaction and exchange of information between the Group and standards and procedures for Scientific Engagement and promotional partners and external communities in order to advance scientific and interactions, based on our values of transparency, respect, integrity and medical understanding including the appropriate development and patient focus.
We have policies and standards governing promotional use of our products: the management of disease: and patient care.
activities and Scientific Engagement undertaken by the Group or on its It is distinct from promotional activities which may take place only after behalf.
All of these activities we conduct worldwide must conform to authorisation of a new product or indication, and must be conducted high ethical, medical, and scientific standards.
Where local standards strictly in accordance with promotional laws, codes and the Groups differ from global standards, the more stringent of the two applies.
All promotional materials and activities must be reviewed and approved There are legal, regulatory, financial and reputational risks for the Group according to the Groups standards, and conducted in accordance if these activities are, or are perceived to be, exceeding their proper with local laws and regulations, to help ensure that these materials boundaries or inappropriately influencing HCPs.
In 2012, we paid and activities fairly represent the products or services of the Group.
$3 billion to resolve government investigations in the USA focused When necessary, we have disciplined up to and including termination in large part on promotional practices.
employees who have engaged in misconduct and have broadened our ability to claw back remuneration from senior management in the event of misconduct.
In recent years, we have taken several steps that we feel are industry leading in various areas of commercial practices and Scientific Engagement.
Examples where the Group stance has been recognised as industry-leading include removing prescription-volume incentives from compensation of sales representatives in the US and global standards for Scientific Engagement.
