Strategic priority: Deliver more products of value.
Intellectual property We depend on certain key products for a significant portion of our sales.
Risk definition The timing and impact of entry in the USA and major markets in Europe Failure to appropriately secure and protect intellectual property rights.
for a follow-on product to Seretide Advair is uncertain.
The US patent for compositions containing the combination of active substances Risk impact in Seretide Advair expired during 2010 although the US patent on a Any loss of patent protection, including reducing the scope of patent rights component of the Advair Diskus device continues until August 2016. or compulsory licensing in which a government forces a manufacturer to We are not able to predict when a generic competitor to Seretide Advair license its patents for specific products to a competitor, could materially may enter the US market.
and adversely affect our financial results in those markets.
Absence of Generic drug manufacturers have also exhibited a readiness to market adequate patent or data exclusivity protection could limit the opportunity to rely on such markets for future sales growth for our products, which could generic versions of many of our most important products prior to the expiration of our patents.
Their efforts may involve challenges to the validity also materially and adversely affect our financial results.
or enforceability of a patent or assertions that their generic product does not infringe our patents.
As a result, we are and may continue to be involved Context in legal proceedings involving patent challenges, which may materially and As an innovative Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare adversely affect our financial results.
Moreover, in the USA, it has become Products company, we seek to obtain appropriate intellectual property increasingly common for patent infringement actions to prompt claims that protection for our products.
Our ability to obtain and enforce patents anti-trust laws have been violated during the prosecution of the patent or and other proprietary rights with regard to our products is critical to our during litigation involving the defence of that patent.
Such claims by direct business strategy and success.
Pharmaceutical and Vaccine products are and indirect purchasers and other payers are typically filed as class actions.
usually only protected from being copied by generic manufacturers during The relief sought may include treble damages and restitution claims.
the period of exclusivity provided by an issued patent or related intellectual Similarly, anti-trust claims may be brought by government entities or property rights such as Regulatory Data Protection or Orphan Drug private parties following settlement of patent litigation, alleging that status.
Following expiration of certain intellectual property rights, a generic such settlements are anti-competitive and in violation of anti-trust laws.
manufacturer may lawfully produce a generic version of the product but A successful anti-trust claim by a private party or government entity may face technological or regulatory barriers to marketing.
could materially and adversely affect our financial results.
We operate in markets where intellectual property laws and patent offices The expiration dates for patents for our major products which may affect the are still developing and where governments may be unwilling to grant or dates on which generic versions of our products may be introduced are set enforce intellectual property rights in a fashion similar to more developed out on pages 229-231.
Legal proceedings involving patent challenges are regions such as the EU, Japan and the USA.
Some developing countries set out in Note 44 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings.
have reduced, or threatened to reduce, effective patent protection for Pharmaceutical products generally, or in particular therapeutic areas, to Mitigating activities facilitate early competition within their markets from generic manufacturers.
Our Global Patents group focuses on securing and protecting our patent We face competition from manufacturers of proprietary and generic rights.
This global group maintains internal processes designed to help pharmaceutical products in all of our major markets.
Introduction of generic ensure successful procurement, enforcement and defence of our patents products, particularly in the USA where we have our highest turnover with the goal of maintaining exclusive rights in markets for our products.
and margins, typically leads to a dramatic loss of sales and reduces our The Global Patents group monitors new developments in international revenues and margins for our proprietary products.
In 2013, we had 10 patent law to help ensure appropriate protection of our assets.
Sometimes Pharmaceutical and Vaccine products with over 500 million in annual acting through trade associations, we work with local governments to seek global sales.
For certain of these products, there is generic competition to secure effective and balanced intellectual property protection designed in the USA and some markets in Europe.
We may also experience an to meet the needs of patients and payers while supporting long-term impact on sales of one of our products due to the expiry or loss of patent investment in innovation.
protection for a product marketed by a competitor in a similar product class or for treatment of a similar disease condition.
