Research practices Strategic priorities: Deliver more products of value.
We are also committed to reporting the results of human subject Risk definition research used to evaluate our products, regardless of whether the Failure to protect and inform patients involved in human clinical trial outcomes are perceived to be positive or negative.
We believe this research: conduct objective, ethical preclinical and clinical trials using is fundamental to the advancement of medical science and helps to sound scientific principles: guarantee the integrity of discovery, preclinical, inform prescribers and patients about our products.
Further, we are and clinical development data: manage human biological samples committed to making the data publicly available to enable valid scientific according to established ethical standards and regulatory expectations: research.
With respect to human biological samples, we are committed treat animals ethically and practice good animal welfare: appropriately to managing these samples in a manner that respects the rights of disclose human subject research for medicinal products: and ensure the research and clinical participants as well as meeting all applicable legal, integrity of our regulatory filings and of the data that we publish.
Risk impact We implement controls to help ensure trials are conducted in The impacts of the risk include harm to patients, reputational damage, accordance with the Good Clinical Practice GCP guidelines developed by the International Conference on Harmonisation, and failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for our products, governmental investigation, legal proceedings product liability suits based on the principles contained in the World Medical Association Declaration of Helsinki on the Ethical Principles for Medical Research and claims for damages, and regulatory action such as fines, penalties or loss of product authorisation, which could materially and adversely Involving Human Subjects 2013. affect our financial results.
We established an Office of Animal Welfare, Ethics and Strategy OAWES, led by the Chief Animal Welfare, Ethics and Strategy, to help Context ensure the humane and responsible care of animals and increase the Research relating to animals and humans can raise ethical concerns.
knowledge and application of non-animal alternatives for the Group.
While we attempt to proactively address this, animal studies remain a OAWES embeds a framework of animal welfare governance, explores vital part of our research.
In many cases, they are the only method that opportunities for cross-industry data sharing, creates consistency and can be used to investigate the effects of a potential new medicine in a metrics for the 3Rs replacement, refinement, and reduction of animals living body before it is tested in humans, which is generally mandated in research, and conducts quality assessments.
by regulators and ethically imperative.
Animal research can also provide We report the results of our human subject research for our medicines critical information about the causes of diseases and how they develop.
and vaccines on our publicly accessible clinical study register website, Some countries require additional animal testing even when medicines on government-required repositories, and we submit human research have been approved for use elsewhere.
results as manuscripts for publication in peer reviewed scientific Clinical trials in healthy volunteers and patients are used to assess and journals.
We have committed to expanding the register to include demonstrate an investigational products efficacy and safety or further clinical study reports.
During 2013, a system was introduced to allow evaluate the product once it has been approved for marketing.
We also researchers to request access to anonymised patient-level data from work with human biological samples.
These samples are fundamental the Groups clinical trials, subject to review for scientific validity by an to the discovery, development and safety monitoring of our products.
independent panel and certain other conditions.
The integrity of our data is essential to success in all stages of the We have a Global Human Biological Samples Management HBSM research data lifecycle: design, generation, recording and management, governance framework in place to oversee the ethical and lawful analysis, reporting and storage and retrieval.
Our research data is acquisition and management of human biological samples.
Our governed by legislation and regulatory requirements.
global HBSM network champions HBSM activities and provides an experienced group to support internal Sample Custodians on best Research data and supporting documents are core components at practice.
various stages of pipeline progression decision-making and also form the content of regulatory submissions.
Poor data integrity can Continuing to enhance our data integrity controls remains an important compromise our research efforts.
During 2013, scientific data misrepresentation was discovered in relation to a 2010 Nature Medicine publication.
We took immediate There are innate complexities and interdependencies required for action to retract the publication.
A full analysis of the incident of regulatory filings, particularly given our global research and scientific data misrepresentation discovered in 2013 was undertaken development footprint.
Currently, rapid changes in submission and based on this analysis, improved controls are being implemented requirements in developing countries are increasing the complexity across R&D.
The Chief Regulatory Officer oversees the activities of the Regulatory Mitigating activities Governance Board which includes promoting compliance with regulatory requirements and Group-wide standards, making regulatory We proactively address ethical concerns raised by research relating services more efficient and agile, and further aligning regulatory to animals and humans by being transparent about our practices and capabilities with our international business needs at the enterprise regularly engaging with academics, scientists, regulators, policymakers, and local levels.
industry colleagues and other stakeholders to request advice or help ensure best practice.
We are committed to acting ethically, providing for the animals health and well-being, reducing the number of animals and finding alternatives to the use of animals.
