Investor information Principal risks and uncertainties Strategic priority: Deliver more products of value.
Product quality We have adopted a single Quality Management System QMS that Risk definition defines our quality standards and systems for our businesses associated Failure to ensure product quality throughout manufacturing and with Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare Products and distribution processes resulting in non-compliance with good R&D investigational materials.
The QMS has a broad scope, covering the manufacturing practice GMP and regulations.
end-to-end supply chain from starting materials to distributed product, and is applicable throughout the complete lifecycle of products from Risk impact R&D to mature commercial supply.
A failure to ensure product quality could have far reaching implications in terms of the health of patients and customers, product recalls, The QMS is periodically updated based on experience, evolving regulatory agency expectations and requirements and improved scientific potential damage to our reputation, as well as regulatory, legal, and financial consequences, which could materially and adversely affect our understanding to help ensure that operations comply with GMP requirements globally, and support the delivery of consistent and reliable financial results.
A large network of quality and compliance professionals is aligned with each business unit to provide oversight and assist the Context delivery of quality performance and operational compliance.
Management Patients, consumers and healthcare professionals trust the quality of oversight of those activities is accomplished through a hierarchy of quality our products at the point of use.
A failure to ensure product quality is an council meetings.
Staff are trained to help ensure that standards, as well enterprise risk which is applicable across all of our business activities.
as expected behaviours based on our values, are followed.
Product quality may be influenced by many factors including product and process understanding, consistency of manufacturing components, We have implemented a risk-based approach to assessing and managing compliance with GMP, accuracy of labelling, reliability and security of our third-party suppliers that provide materials used in finished products.
the supply chain, and the embodiment of an overarching quality culture.
Contract manufacturers making our products are expected to comply The internal and external environment continues to evolve as new with standards identified by the Group and are audited to help provide products, new markets and new legislation are introduced, particularly assurance that expected standards are met.
around security of supply, good distribution practice and product The Chief Product Quality Officer oversees the activities of the GSK standards.
Quality Council which serves as a forum to escalate emerging risks, share experiences of handling quality issues from all of our businesses Mitigating activities and help ensure that lessons learned are assessed and deployed globally.
In medicines development, scientists adopt the principles of quality by The preparation for and implementation of new legislation is regularly design for new products and devise control strategies to be deployed reviewed by the GSK Quality Council and advocacy and communication throughout the product lifecycle to help ensure consistency and reliability programmes are used to maintain awareness of the external environment in their performance and supply.
and convey consistent messages across the Group.
There is emphasis on quality performance metrics and a culture of right first time.
