About GSK Notice regarding limitations on Director Liability GlaxoSmithKline plc was incorporated as an under English Law Under the UK Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits the English public limited company on 6 December liability of Directors in respect of statements in and omissions from the Directors Report for which see page 95, the 1999.
We were formed by a merger between Strategic Report pages 2 to 74 and the Remuneration Report pages 96 to 126.
Under English law the Directors would be Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham liable to the company, but not to any third party, if one or more of these reports contained errors as a result of recklessness or plc.
GSK acquired these two English companies knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a material fact, but would not otherwise be liable.
on 27 December 2000 as part of the merger Website arrangements.
com gives additional information on the Group.
Notwithstanding the references we make in this Annual Report to GlaxoSmithKlines website, none of the information made available on the website Our shares are listed on the London Stock constitutes part of this Annual Report or shall be deemed to be incorporated by reference herein.
Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements The Groups reports filed with or furnished to the US Read more at www.
com Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, including this document and written information released, or oral statements made, to the public in the future by or on behalf of the Group, may contain forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements give the Groups current expectations or forecasts of future events.
An investor can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
They use words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, intend, will, project, plan, believe and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance.
In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, and financial results.
The Group undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties.
The Group cautions investors that a number of important factors, including those in this document, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.
Such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed under Risk factors on pages 232-241 of this Annual Report.
A number of adjusted measures are used to report the performance of our business.
These measures are defined on page 58.
Brand names Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report are trademarks which in 2013 were either owned by and or licensed to GlaxoSmithKline or associated companies, with the exception of NicoDerm, a trademark of Johnson & Johnson, Novartis, Sanofi or GlaxoSmithKline, Potiga, a trademark of Valeant, Prolia and Xgeva, trademarks of Amgen, Axentri, a trademark of Emcure Pharmaceuticals, Volibris, a trademark of Gilead, Xyzal, a trademark of UCB or GlaxoSmithKline and Zyrtec, a trademark of UCB or GlaxoSmithKline all of which are used in certain countries under licence by the Group.
Printing Printed at Pureprint Group, ISO 14001.
Paper This Annual Report is printed on Amadeus 100 silk, a 100% recycled paper with full FSC certification.
All pulps used are made from 100% fide-inked, post-consumer waste and are elemental chlorine free.
The manufacturing mill holds the ISO 14001 and EU Eco-label certificates for environmental management.
com Here you will find downloadable PDFs of: Annual Report 2013 Annual Summary 2013 Form 20-F Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Head Office and Registered Office GlaxoSmithKline plc 980 Great West Road Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS You can also search for us here United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 20 8047 5000 Registered number: 3888792
