Investor information Principal risks and uncertainties Tax and treasury Strategic priority: Simplify the operating model.
Liquidity risk is managed by diversifying our liquidity sources using a Risk definition range of facilities and by maintaining broad access to funding markets Failure to comply with tax law or significant losses due to treasury in order to meet anticipated future funding requirements.
significant amounts of cash and investments which are invested in line with strict investment guidelines.
Risk impact Changes in tax laws or in their application with respect to matters Interest rate risk is managed by limiting the amount of floating rate interest payments to a prescribed percentage of operating profit, and such as transfer pricing, foreign dividends, controlled companies, R&D tax credits, taxation of intellectual property or a restriction in tax relief the mix of debt at fixed and floating interest rates is monitored regularly by the TMG.
allowed on the interest on intra-group debt, could impact our effective tax rate.
Significant losses may arise from Treasury activities through Foreign currency transaction risk arising on internal and external trade inconsistent application of Treasury policies, dealing or settlement flows is not generally hedged.
Our internal trading transactions are errors, or counterparty defaults.
Any such changes in tax laws or their matched centrally, and we manage inter-company payment terms application, failure to comply with tax law or significant losses due to to reduce foreign currency risk.
Foreign currency cash flows can treasury activities could materially and adversely affect our financial be hedged selectively under the management of Treasury and the results.
Where possible, we manage the cash surpluses or borrowing requirements of subsidiary companies centrally.
In order to reduce Context foreign currency translation exposure, we seek to denominate The Groups Treasury group deals in high value transactions, mostly borrowings in the currencies of our principal assets and cash flows.
foreign exchange and cash management transactions, on a daily basis.
The TMG reviews the ratio of borrowings to assets for the major currencies monthly.
The Groups effective tax rate is driven by rates of tax in jurisdictions that are both higher and lower than the UK.
In addition, many Counterparty risk is managed by setting global counterparty limits jurisdictions currently offer regimes that encourage innovation and for each of our banking and investment counterparties based on longinvestment in science by providing tax incentives, such as R&D term credit ratings from Moodys and Standard and Poors.
Treasurys tax credits and lower tax rates on income derived from patents.
usage of these limits is monitored daily by a Corporate Compliance Furthermore, as an international business, we face risks associated Officer CCO who operates independently of Corporate Treasury.
The CCO also monitors the credit rating of these counterparties and, when changes in ratings occur, notifies Treasury so that changes can The tax charge included in our financial statements is our best estimate be made to investment levels or to authority limits as appropriate.
of tax liability pending audits by tax authorities.
We submit tax returns according to statutory time limits and engage tax authorities to help We monitor government debate on tax policy in our key jurisdictions ensure our tax affairs are current.
In exceptional cases where matters to deal proactively with any potential future changes in tax law.
Tax cannot be settled by agreement with tax authorities, we may have to risk is managed by a set of policies and procedures to help ensure resolve disputes through formal appeals or other proceedings.
As an consistency and compliance with tax legislation.
We engage advisors international business, we are also subject to a range of other duties and legal counsel to review tax legislation and applicability to our and taxes carrying similar types of risk.
There is an increased focus on the tax position of multinational We attempt to mitigate the risk of more aggressive tax authority audits businesses, as a consequence of the challenging economic by being as up to date as possible with our tax affairs and working environment and the priority placed by the G20 on addressing proactively with tax authorities where possible.
We have also moved to allegations of tax avoidance.
We have seen some increase in audits as a more centralised and simplified intellectual property ownership and governments seek to raise revenues, both from corporate taxes and trading model.
The model centralises our Pharmaceutical intellectual above the line taxes such as customs duties.
property into the UK, reducing the complexity of our inter-company arrangements enabling us to drive more bilateral Advance Pricing Mitigating activities Agreements APAs between the UK and other jurisdictions where we operate.
APAs give greater certainty to the application of transfer Treasury does not operate as a profit centre and does not enter pricing and our direct tax affairs and hence reduce risks.
Internal into financial derivative transactions for speculative purposes.
All structures have been enhanced through a centralised team of transactions in financial instruments are undertaken to manage the dedicated specialists responsible for managing transactional tax risks arising from underlying business activities.
Treasury activities reporting and compliance.
are governed by policies approved by the Board of Directors and compliance is regularly reviewed by the Treasury Management Group TMG, which is chaired by the CFO.
