Financial statements Directors statement of responsibilities Directors statement of responsibilities in relation to the Group financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Disclosure of information to auditors the Remuneration Report and the Group financial statements in The Directors in office at the date of this Report have each accordance with applicable law and regulations.
confirmed that: UK Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are of which the companys auditors are unaware: and required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit by the European Union.
In preparing the Group financial statements, information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware the Directors have also elected to comply with IFRS, as issued by the of that information.
International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the Group financial statements This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Going concern basis Pages 58 to 74 contain information on the performance of the Group, In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: its financial position, cash flows, net debt position and borrowing select suitable accounting policies and then apply them facilities.
Further information, including Treasury risk management consistently: policies, exposures to market and credit risk and hedging activities, is given in Note 41 to the financial statements, Financial instruments make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and related disclosures.
After making enquiries, the Directors have and prudent: a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS as continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this adopted by the European Union and IFRS as issued by the IASB, reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
Internal control The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys The Board, through the Audit & Risk Committee, has reviewed the transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the in GSK and has considered the effectiveness of the system of internal Group financial statements and the Remuneration Report comply control in operation in the Group for the year covered by this report with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
and up to the date of its approval by the Board of Directors.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group The UK Corporate Governance Code and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code maintained The Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December by the Financial Reporting Council, as described in the Corporate 2013, comprising principal statements and supporting notes, are Governance section on pages 82 to 95, and has complied with its set out in Financial statements on pages 132 to 210 of this report.
The Board further considers that the Annual Report, taken The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the Group financial as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the statements are set out in the Independent Auditors report on pages information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups 129 to 131. performance, business model and strategy.
The Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December As required by the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules, the 2013 are included in the Annual Report, which is published in auditors have considered the Directors statement of compliance in printed form and made available on our website.
The Directors are relation to those points of the UK Corporate Governance Code which responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report are specified for their review.
on our website in accordance with UK legislation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
Access to Annual Report the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable The Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2013, legislation may be different.
comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration Report, Each of the current Directors, whose names and functions are listed the Financial statements and additional information for investors, has in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report 2013 been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS as issued Sir Christopher Gent by the IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, Chairman financial position and profit of the Group: and 26 February 2014 the Strategic Report and risk sections of the Annual Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
