Financial statements Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements Implementation of new accounting standards 1 Presentation of the financial statements An amendment to IAS 19 Employee benefits was issued in June 2011 and was implemented by GSK from 1 January 2013.
Description of business The amendment eliminates the ability to defer the recognition of GlaxoSmithKline is a major global healthcare group which is gains and losses the corridor method, requires remeasurements engaged in the creation and discovery, development, manufacture to be presented in other comprehensive income, requires past and marketing of pharmaceutical products including vaccines, service cost to be recognised in the income statement in the year over-the-counter OTC medicines and health-related consumer of the plan amendment rather than deferring the portion related to products.
GSKs principal pharmaceutical products include unvested benefits, requires the return on plan assets recognised in medicines in the following therapeutic areas: respiratory, anti-virals, the income statement to be calculated using the same rate as the central nervous system, cardiovascular and urogenital, metabolic, discount rate applied to the pension obligation and makes several anti-bacterials, oncology and emesis, dermatology, rare diseases, other minor accounting and disclosure changes.
The revised Standard increased the pension charge in 2013 by Compliance with applicable law and IFRS approximately 160 million.
Comparative periods have been The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with restated and as a result the pension charge for 2012 has increased the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and by 92 million and for 2011 by 73 million.
International Accounting Standards IAS and International Financial In addition, the following new or amended accounting standards Reporting Standards IFRS and related interpretations, as adopted have been implemented in 2013.
These had no material impact on by the European Union.
the current period: The financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements by the International Accounting Standards Board.
IFRS 11 Joint arrangements Composition of financial statements IFRS 12 Disclosures of interests in other entities The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in Sterling, the IFRS 13 Fair value measurement functional currency of GlaxoSmithKline plc, and in accordance with IFRS accounting presentation.
The financial statements comprise: IAS 1 Presentation of items of other comprehensive income Consolidated income statement IAS 28 Investments in associates and joint ventures Consolidated statement of comprehensive income IFRS 7 Disclosures Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities.
Consolidated balance sheet The Group has also adopted early an amendment to IAS 36 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Impairment of Assets in relation to recoverable amount disclosures Consolidated cash flow statement for non-financial assets, with effect from 1 January 2013.
Notes to the financial statements.
Financial period Composition of the Group These financial statements cover the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2013, with comparative figures for the financial years A list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings which, in the from 1 January to 31 December 2012 and, where appropriate, from opinion of the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit or 1 January to 31 December 2011. the net assets of the Group is given in Note 43, Principal Group companies.
Parent company financial statements Accounting principles and policies The financial statements of the parent company, GlaxoSmithKline plc, have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP and with UK The financial statements have been prepared using the historical accounting presentation.
The company balance sheet is presented cost convention modified by the revaluation of certain items, as on page 213 and the accounting policies are given on page 214. stated in the accounting policies, and on a going concern basis.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 2 Accounting principles and policies the Groups accounting policies approved by the Board and described in Note 2, Accounting principles and policies.
Information Consolidation on the application of these accounting policies, including areas of The consolidated financial statements include: estimation and judgement is given in Note 3, Key accounting judgements and estimates.
the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flows, of the company and its subsidiaries, including ESOP Trusts The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management the Groups share of the results and net assets of associates and to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts joint ventures of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and the Groups share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported joint operations.
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up to Actual results could differ from those estimates.
