Financial statements Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements Implementation of new accounting standards 1 Presentation of the financial statements An amendment to IAS 19 Employee benefits was issued in June 2011 and was implemented by GSK from 1 January 2013.
Description of business The amendment eliminates the ability to defer the recognition of GlaxoSmithKline is a major global healthcare group which is gains and losses the corridor method, requires remeasurements engaged in the creation and discovery, development, manufacture to be presented in other comprehensive income, requires past and marketing of pharmaceutical products including vaccines, service cost to be recognised in the income statement in the year over-the-counter OTC medicines and health-related consumer of the plan amendment rather than deferring the portion related to products.
GSKs principal pharmaceutical products include unvested benefits, requires the return on plan assets recognised in medicines in the following therapeutic areas: respiratory, anti-virals, the income statement to be calculated using the same rate as the central nervous system, cardiovascular and urogenital, metabolic, discount rate applied to the pension obligation and makes several anti-bacterials, oncology and emesis, dermatology, rare diseases, other minor accounting and disclosure changes.
The revised Standard increased the pension charge in 2013 by Compliance with applicable law and IFRS approximately 160 million.
Comparative periods have been The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with restated and as a result the pension charge for 2012 has increased the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and by 92 million and for 2011 by 73 million.
International Accounting Standards IAS and International Financial In addition, the following new or amended accounting standards Reporting Standards IFRS and related interpretations, as adopted have been implemented in 2013.
These had no material impact on by the European Union.
the current period: The financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements by the International Accounting Standards Board.
IFRS 11 Joint arrangements Composition of financial statements IFRS 12 Disclosures of interests in other entities The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in Sterling, the IFRS 13 Fair value measurement functional currency of GlaxoSmithKline plc, and in accordance with IFRS accounting presentation.
The financial statements comprise: IAS 1 Presentation of items of other comprehensive income Consolidated income statement IAS 28 Investments in associates and joint ventures Consolidated statement of comprehensive income IFRS 7 Disclosures Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities.
Consolidated balance sheet The Group has also adopted early an amendment to IAS 36 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Impairment of Assets in relation to recoverable amount disclosures Consolidated cash flow statement for non-financial assets, with effect from 1 January 2013.
Notes to the financial statements.
Financial period Composition of the Group These financial statements cover the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2013, with comparative figures for the financial years A list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings which, in the from 1 January to 31 December 2012 and, where appropriate, from opinion of the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit or 1 January to 31 December 2011. the net assets of the Group is given in Note 43, Principal Group companies.
Parent company financial statements Accounting principles and policies The financial statements of the parent company, GlaxoSmithKline plc, have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP and with UK The financial statements have been prepared using the historical accounting presentation.
The company balance sheet is presented cost convention modified by the revaluation of certain items, as on page 213 and the accounting policies are given on page 214. stated in the accounting policies, and on a going concern basis.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 2 Accounting principles and policies the Groups accounting policies approved by the Board and described in Note 2, Accounting principles and policies.
Information Consolidation on the application of these accounting policies, including areas of The consolidated financial statements include: estimation and judgement is given in Note 3, Key accounting judgements and estimates.
the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flows, of the company and its subsidiaries, including ESOP Trusts The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management the Groups share of the results and net assets of associates and to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts joint ventures of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and the Groups share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported joint operations.
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up to Actual results could differ from those estimates.
136 GSK Annual Report 2013 On consolidation, assets and liabilities, including related goodwill, of 2 Accounting principles and policies continued overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, are translated Entities over which the Group has the power to direct the relevant into Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The activities so as to affect the returns to the Group, generally through results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint control over the financial and operating policies, are accounted for ventures are translated into Sterling using average rates of exchange.
Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets and the control over, and rights to the net assets of, entities, the entities are profits for the year retained by overseas subsidiaries, associates and accounted for as joint ventures.
Where the Group has the ability to joint ventures are translated into Sterling, less exchange differences exercise joint control over an arrangement, but has rights to specified arising on related foreign currency borrowings which hedge the assets and obligations for specified liabilities of the arrangement, Groups net investment in these operations, are taken to a separate the arrangement is accounted for as a joint operation.
Where the component of equity.
Group has the ability to exercise significant influence over entities, they are accounted for as associates.
The results and assets and When translating into Sterling the assets, liabilities, results and cash liabilities of associates and joint ventures are incorporated into the flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures which consolidated financial statements using the equity method of are reported in currencies of hyper-inflationary economies, accounting.
The Groups rights to assets, liabilities, revenue and adjustments are made where material to reflect current price levels.
expenses of joint operations are included in the consolidated Any loss on net monetary assets is charged to the consolidated financial statements in accordance with those rights and obligations.
Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the date the Revenue Group acquires control and interests sold are fide-consolidated from Revenue is recognised in the income statement when goods or the date control ceases.
services are supplied or made available to external customers against Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated orders received, title and risk of loss is passed to the customer, and no profit before tax is taken on sales between subsidiaries reliable estimates can be made of relevant deductions and all relevant until the products are sold to customers outside the Group.
obligations have been fulfilled, such that the earnings process is The relevant proportion of profits on transactions with joint ventures, regarded as being complete.
joint operations and associates is also deferred until the products Turnover represents net invoice value after the deduction of discounts are sold to third parties.
Transactions with non-controlling interests and allowances given and accruals for estimated future rebates and are recorded directly in equity.
Deferred tax relief on unrealised returns.
The methodology and assumptions used to estimate rebates intra-Group profit is accounted for only to the extent that it is and returns are monitored and adjusted regularly in the light of considered recoverable.
contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, past experience Goodwill is capitalised as a separate item in the case of subsidiaries and projected market conditions.
Market conditions are evaluated and as part of the cost of investment in the case of joint ventures and using wholesaler and other third-party analyses, market research data associates.
Goodwill is denominated in the currency of the operation and internally generated information.
Value added tax and other sales acquired.
taxes are excluded from revenue.
Where the cost of acquisition is below the fair value of the net assets Where the Group co-promotes a product and the counterparty acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income records the sale, the Group records its share of revenue as costatement.
The nature of co-promotion activities is such that the Group records no costs of sales.
Business combinations Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion revenue of 37 Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition million 2012 234 million: 2011 221 million.
In addition, initial accounting method.
Identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent or event-based milestone income excluding royalty income arising liabilities acquired are measured at fair value at acquisition date.
on development or marketing collaborations of the Groups The consideration transferred is measured at fair value and includes compounds or products with other parties is recognised in turnover.
the fair value of any contingent consideration.
Where the Milestone income of 78 million is included in turnover in 2013. consideration transferred, together with the non-controlling interest, Royalty income is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance exceeds the fair value of the net assets, liabilities and contingent with the terms of the relevant licensing agreements.
liabilities acquired, the excess is recorded as goodwill.
The costs of acquisition are charged to the income statement in the period Expenditure in which they are incurred.
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received Where not all of the equity of a subsidiary is acquired the nonwhen supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
Provision is controlling interest is recognised either at fair value or at the nonmade when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a controlling interests share of the net assets of the subsidiary, on a past event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably case-by-case basis.
Changes in the Groups ownership percentage estimated.
Manufacturing start-up costs between validation and the of subsidiaries are accounted for within equity.
achievement of normal production are expensed as incurred.
Advertising and promotion expenditure is charged to the income Foreign currency translation statement as incurred.
Shipment costs on inter-company transfers Foreign currency transactions are booked in the functional currency are charged to cost of sales: distribution costs on sales to customers of the Group company at the exchange rate ruling on the date of are included in selling, general and administrative expenditure.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are Restructuring costs are recognised and provided for, where retranslated into the functional currency at rates of exchange ruling appropriate, in respect of the direct expenditure of a business at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences are included in the reorganisation where the plans are sufficiently detailed and well income statement.
advanced, and where appropriate communication to those affected has been undertaken.
GSK Annual Report 2013 137 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements Employee share plans 2 Accounting principles and policies continued Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under share option and share award schemes.
Research and development Research and development expenditure is charged to the income The fair values of these options and awards are calculated at their statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Development grant dates using a Black-Scholes option pricing model and charged expenditure is capitalised when the criteria for recognising an asset to the income statement over the relevant vesting periods.
are met, usually when a regulatory filing has been made in a major The Group provides finance to ESOP Trusts to purchase company market and approval is considered highly probable.
Property, plant shares on the open market to meet the obligation to provide shares and equipment used for research and development is capitalised when employees exercise their options or awards.
Costs of running and depreciated in accordance with the Groups policy.
the ESOP Trusts are charged to the income statement.
Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves.
A transfer is Environmental expenditure made between other reserves and retained earnings over the vesting Environmental expenditure related to existing conditions resulting periods of the related share options or awards to reflect the ultimate from past or current operations and from which no current or future proceeds receivable from employees on exercise.
benefit is discernible is charged to the income statement.
The Group recognises its liability on a site-by-site basis when it can be reliably Property, plant and equipment estimated.
This liability includes the Groups portion of the total costs Property, plant and equipment PP&E is stated at the cost of and also a portion of other potentially responsible parties costs when purchase or construction less provisions for depreciation and it is probable that they will not be able to satisfy their respective impairment.
Financing costs are capitalised within the cost of shares of the clean-up obligation.
Recoveries of reimbursements qualifying assets in construction.
are recorded as assets when virtually certain.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost less residual value Legal and other disputes of PP&E, excluding freehold land, using the straight-line basis over the expected useful life.
Residual values and lives are reviewed, and Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs of legal or where appropriate adjusted, annually.
The normal expected useful other disputes against the Group where an outflow of resources is lives of the major categories of PP&E are: considered probable and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome.
In addition, provision is made for legal or other expenses Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years arising from claims received or other disputes.
In respect of product Leasehold land and buildings Lease term or 20 to 50 years liability claims related to certain products, there is sufficient history Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years of claims made and settlements to enable management to make a Equipment and vehicles 3 to 10 years reliable estimate of the provision required to cover unasserted claims.
In certain cases, an incurred but not reported IBNR actuarial On disposal of PP&E, the cost and related accumulated depreciation technique is used to determine this estimate.
and impairments are removed from the financial statements and the net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to the income statement.
The Group may become involved in legal proceedings, in respect of which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the expected Leases financial effect, if any, that could result from ultimate resolution of the proceedings.
In these cases, appropriate disclosure about such Leasing agreements which transfer to the Group substantially all cases would be included but no provision would be made.
Costs the benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are treated as finance associated with claims made by the Group against third parties leases, as if the asset had been purchased outright.
The assets are are charged to the income statement as they are incurred.
included in PP&E or computer software and the capital elements of the leasing commitments are shown as obligations under finance Pensions and other post-employment benefits leases.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated on a basis The costs of providing pensions under defined benefit schemes are consistent with similar owned assets or the lease term if shorter.
The interest element of the lease rental is included in the income calculated using the projected unit credit method and spread over statement.
All other leases are operating leases and the rental costs the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from the are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over employees services, consistent with the advice of qualified actuaries.
Pension obligations are measured as the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at rates reflecting the yields of high Goodwill quality corporate bonds.
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value at the balance sheet date.
Goodwill is stated at cost less impairments.
Goodwill is deemed to have an indefinite useful life and is tested for impairment at least The costs of other post-employment liabilities are calculated in a annually.
similar way to defined benefit pension schemes and spread over the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from the Where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entitys assets, employees services, in accordance with the advice of qualified liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the consideration paid, actuaries.
this excess is recognised immediately as a gain in the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses and the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the year in which they arise.
The Groups contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to the income statement as incurred.
138 GSK Annual Report 2013 Available-for-sale investments 2 Accounting principles and policies continued Liquid investments and other investments are classified as availablefor-sale investments and are initially recorded at fair value plus Other intangible assets transaction costs and then remeasured at subsequent reporting Intangible assets are stated at cost less provisions for amortisation dates to fair value.
Unrealised gains and losses on available-for-sale and impairments.
investments are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights separately Impairments arising from the significant or prolonged decline in fair acquired or acquired as part of a business combination are amortised value of an equity investment reduce the carrying amount of the asset over their estimated useful lives, generally not exceeding 20 years, directly and are charged to the income statement.
using the straight-line basis, from the time they are available for use.
On disposal or impairment of the investments, any gains and losses The estimated useful lives for determining the amortisation charge that have been deferred in other comprehensive income are take into account patent lives, where applicable, as well as the value reclassified to the income statement.
Dividends on equity investments obtained from periods of non-exclusivity.
Asset lives are reviewed, are recognised in the income statement when the Groups right to and where appropriate adjusted, annually.
Contingent milestone receive payment is established.
Equity investments are recorded in payments are recognised at the point that the contingent event non-current assets unless they are expected to be sold within one becomes certain.
Any development costs incurred by the Group and year.
associated with acquired licences, patents, know-how or marketing rights are written off to the income statement when incurred, unless Purchases and sales of equity investments are accounted for on the criteria for recognition of an internally generated intangible asset the trade date and purchases and sales of other available-for-sale are met, usually when a regulatory filing has been made in a major investments are accounted for on settlement date.
market and approval is considered highly probable.
Inventories Acquired brands are valued independently as part of the fair value Inventories are included in the financial statements at the lower of of businesses acquired from third parties where the brand has a cost including raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and value which is substantial and long-term and where the brands related production overheads and net realisable value.
Cost is either are contractual or legal in nature or can be sold separately generally determined on a first in, first out basis.
Pre-launch inventory from the rest of the businesses acquired.
Brands are amortised is held as an asset when there is a high probability of regulatory over their estimated useful lives of up to 20 years, except where approval for the product.
Before that point a provision is made against it is considered that the useful economic life is indefinite.
the carrying value to its recoverable amount: the provision is then The costs of acquiring and developing computer software for internal reversed at the point when a high probability of regulatory approval is use and internet sites for external use are capitalised as intangible determined.
fixed assets where the software or site supports a significant business system and the expenditure leads to the creation of a Trade receivables durable asset.
ERP systems software is amortised over seven to Trade receivables are carried at original invoice amount less any ten years and other computer software over three to five years.
Provisions are made where there is evidence of a risk of non-payment, taking into account ageing, Impairment of non-current assets previous experience and general economic conditions.
When a trade The carrying values of all non-current assets are reviewed for receivable is determined to be uncollectable it is written off, firstly impairment, either on a stand-alone basis or as part of a larger cash against any provision available and then to the income statement.
generating unit, when there is an indication that the assets might Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for are be impaired.
Additionally, goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite credited to the income statement.
Long-term receivables are useful lives and intangible assets which are not yet available for use discounted where the effect is material.
are tested for impairment annually.
Any provision for impairment is charged to the income statement in the year concerned.
Trade payables Impairments of goodwill are not reversed.
Impairment losses on Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and then held at other non-current assets are only reversed if there has been a amortised cost which equates to nominal value.
Long-term payables change in estimates used to determine recoverable amounts and are discounted where the effect is material.
only to the extent that the revised recoverable amounts do not exceed the carrying values that would have existed, net of depreciation or Cash and cash equivalents amortisation, had no impairments been recognised.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, current balances with banks and similar institutions and highly liquid investments with Investments in associates, joint ventures and joint operations maturities of three months or less.
They are readily convertible into Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the known amounts of cash and have an insignificant risk of changes in consolidated balance sheet at the Groups share of their net assets value.
at date of acquisition and of their post-acquisition retained profits or losses together with any goodwill arising on the acquisition.
Borrowings The Group recognises its rights to assets, liabilities, revenue and All borrowings are initially recorded at the amount of proceeds expenses of joint operations.
received, net of transaction costs.
Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost, with the difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the amount due on redemption being recognised as a charge to the income statement over the period of the relevant borrowing.
