Notes to the financial statements Glencore has identified the following areas as being critical to 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES understanding Glencores financial position as they require Corporate information management to make complex and or subjective judgements, Glencore Xstrata plc, formerly Glencore International plc, the estimates and assumptions about matters that are inherently Company or the Parent, is a publicly traded limited company uncertain: incorporated in Jersey and domiciled in Switzerland.
Its ordinary shares are traded on the London, Hong Kong and Johannesburg Key judgements stock exchanges and it is the ultimate parent entity of the Glencore In the process of applying Glencores accounting policies, Xstrata Group Glencore.
management has made the following judgements based on the relevant facts and circumstances including macro-economic Glencore is a leading integrated producer and marketer of natural circumstances and, where applicable, interpretation of underlying resources, with worldwide activities in the production, refinement, agreements, which have the most significant effect on the amounts processing, storage, transport and marketing of metals and recognised in the consolidated financial statements.
minerals, energy products and agricultural products.
Glencore operates on a global scale, marketing and distributing physical Allocation of acquisition goodwill to cash generating units CGUs commodities sourced from third party producers and own Notes 9 and 25 production to industrial consumers, such as those in the The allocation of goodwill created as a result of a business automotive, steel, power generation, oil and food processing combination is a significant judgement which is, in part, impacted industries.
Glencore also provides financing, logistics and other by the identification of synergies expected to be realised as a result services to producers and consumers of commodities.
In this of a business combination and allocating those synergies to the cash regard, Glencore seeks to capture value throughout the commodity generating units which are expected to benefit from the synergies.
Glencores long experience as a commodity producer The allocation of goodwill impacts the carrying value of CGUs and and merchant has allowed it to develop and build upon its the associated assessment of impairment in connection with those expertise in the commodities which it markets and cultivate CGUs.
In 2013, the most significant judgements in respect of long-term relationships with a broad supplier and customer base goodwill allocation related to the acquisition of Xstrata.
across diverse industries and in multiple geographic regions.
Determination of control of subsidiaries and joint arrangements Note 35 On 2 May 2013, Glencore completed its acquisition of the remaining 66% which it did not previously own of the issued and Judgement is required to determine when Glencore has control or outstanding equity of Xstrata plc Xstrata, a leading global joint control, which requires an assessment of the relevant activities diversified mining group, for consideration of $29.5 billion.
those relating to the operating and capital decisions of the See note 25. arrangement, such as: the approval of the capital expenditure programme for each year, and appointing, remunerating and These consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue terminating the key management personnel or service providers of in accordance with a Directors resolution on 17 March 2014. the operations and when the decisions in relation to those activities are under the control of Glencore or require unanimous consent.
"Statement of compliance Judgement is also required in determining the classification of a The accounting policies adopted are in accordance with: joint arrangement between a joint venture or a joint operation International Financial Reporting Standards ""IFRS"" and through an evaluation of the rights and obligations arising from interpretations as adopted by the European Union ""EU"" the arrangement."
"effective as of 31 December 2013: and Differing conclusions around these judgements, may materially IFRS and interpretations as issued by the International Accounting impact how these businesses are presented in the consolidated Standards Board ""IASB"" effective as of 31 December 2013. financial statements under the full consolidation method, equity method or proportionate consolidation method."
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires Exploration and evaluation expenditure Notes 7 and 30 management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that The application of Glencores accounting policy for exploration and affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as well as the evaluation expenditure requires judgement to determine whether disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the future economic benefits are likely, from either future exploitation financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and or sale, or whether activities have not reached a stage that permits expenses during the reporting period.
Estimates and assumptions a reasonable assessment of the existence of reserves.
are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are Performance and credit risk Note 26 believed to be reasonable and relevant under the circumstances, independent estimates, quoted market prices and common, The Groups global marketing operations expose it to performance industry standard modelling techniques.
Actual outcomes could and credit risks: these arise particularly in markets demonstrating result in a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets significant price volatility with limited liquidity and terminal or liabilities affected in future periods.
markets and when global and or regional macroeconomic conditions are weak.
128 Continuously, but particularly during such times judgement is Depreciation and amortisation of mineral and petroleum rights, project required to determine whether receivables, loans and advances are development costs, plant and equipment and intangible assets Notes 7 recoverable and if contracted product deliveries will be received.
and 8 Judgements about recoverability and contractual performance may Mineral and petroleum rights, project development costs, certain materially impact both non-current and current assets as recognised plant and equipment and certain intangible assets are on the statement of financial position.
depreciated amortised using the Units of Production basis UOP.
The calculation of the UOP rate of Recognition of deferred tax assets Note 6 depreciation amortisation, and therefore the annual charge to Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent it is considered operations, can fluctuate from initial estimates.
This could generally probable that those assets will be recoverable.
This involves an result when there are significant changes in any of the factors or assessment of when those deferred tax assets are likely to reverse, assumptions used in estimating mineral or petroleum reserves and and a judgement as to whether there will be sufficient taxable resources, notably changes in the geology of the reserves and income available to offset the tax assets when they do reverse.
resources and assumptions used in determining the economic These judgements are subject to risk and uncertainty and therefore, feasibility of the reserves.
Such changes in reserves and resources to the extent assumptions regarding future profitability change, could similarly impact the useful lives of assets depreciated on a there can be a material increase or decrease in the amounts straight-line basis, where those lives are limited to the life of the recognised in the consolidated statement of income in the period in project, which in turn is limited to the life of the underlying which the change occurs.
The recoverability of deferred tax assets reserves and resources.
Estimates of proven and probable reserves including the estimates and assumptions contained therein are and resources are prepared by experts in extraction, geology and reviewed regularly by management.
Assessments of UOP rates against the estimated reserve and resource base and the operating and Key estimates and assumptions development plan are performed regularly.
In the process of applying Glencores accounting policies, Impairments Notes 5, 7, 8, 9 and 10 management has made key estimates and assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty.
The key Investments in associates and joint ventures, other investments, assumptions and estimates at the reporting date that have a advances and loans, property, plant and equipment and intangible significant impact on the financial position and the results of assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in operations, are described below.
Actual results may differ from circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be fully these estimates under different assumptions and conditions and recoverable or at least annually for goodwill and other indefinite may materially affect financial results or the financial position life intangible assets.
If an assets recoverable amount is less than reported in future periods.
the assets carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated statement of income.
Future cash flow estimates which Valuation of derivative instruments Note 28 are used to calculate the assets fair value are discounted using asset specific discount rates and are based on expectations about future Derivative instruments are carried at fair value and Glencore operations, primarily comprising estimates about production and evaluates the quality and reliability of the assumptions and data sales volumes, commodity prices, reserves and resources, used to measure fair value in the three hierarchy levels, Level 1, 2 operating, rehabilitation and restoration costs and capital and 3, as prescribed by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
Changes in such estimates could impact recoverable are determined in the following ways: externally verified via values of these assets.
Estimates are reviewed regularly by comparison to quoted market prices in active markets Level 1 : by management.
using models with externally verifiable inputs Level 2 : or by using alternative procedures such as comparison to comparable Provisions Note 22 instruments and or using models with unobservable market inputs requiring Glencore to make market based assumptions Level 3.
The amount recognised as a provision, including tax, legal, Level 3 inputs therefore include the highest level of estimation contractual and other exposures or obligations, is the best estimate uncertainty.
of the consideration required to settle the related liability, including any related interest charges, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
The Group assesses its liabilities and contingencies based upon the best information available, relevant tax laws and other appropriate requirements.
These provisions may require settlement in future periods and as such may be materially impacted by the time value of money, the determination of the appropriate risk adjusted discount rate to reflect time value of money is a source of estimation uncertainty which could impact the carrying value of these provisions at the balance sheet date.
129 Notes to the financial statements The nature and impact of the following new and revised IFRS 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued standards and interpretations is described below.
Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs Note 22 A provision for future restoration, rehabilitation and IFRS 10, IFRS 11, IFRS 12, IAS 27 and IAS 28 the Consolidation decommissioning costs requires estimates and assumptions to be Standards made around the relevant regulatory framework, the magnitude of IFRS 10 provides a single basis for consolidation with a new the possible disturbance, the timing, extent and costs of the definition of control based on having the power to direct the required closure and rehabilitation activities and of the risk relevant activities of the investee.
IFRS 11 impacts the accounting adjusted discount rates used to determine the present value of the for joint arrangements, defined as investments or arrangements future cash outflows.
To the extent that the actual future costs differ which are subject to joint control through contractually agreed from these estimates, adjustments will be recorded and the sharing of control between two or more parties.
A joint arrangement consolidated statement of income could be impacted.
The is classified as either a joint operation or a joint venture, and the provisions including the estimates and assumptions contained option to proportionately consolidate joint ventures has been therein are reviewed regularly by management.
removed requiring them to be accounted for under the equity method whilst joint operations are accounted for using the Fair value measurements Notes 9, 25, 26, 27 and 28 proportionate consolidation method.
This is consistent with In addition to recognising derivative instruments at fair value, as historical Glencore policy under which investments in jointly discussed above, an assessment of the fair value of assets and controlled entities were accounted for using the equity method.
liabilities is also required in accounting for other transactions, most IFRS 12 is a new disclosure standard and is applicable to entities notably, business combinations and marketing inventories and that have interests in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates disclosures related to fair values of financial assets and liabilities.
In and or unconsolidated structured entities.
In general, the such instances, fair value measurements are estimated based on the application of IFRS 12 has resulted in more extensive disclosures in amounts for which the assets and liabilities could be exchanged at the consolidated financial statements see notes 10, 33 and 35. the relevant transaction date or reporting period end, and are therefore not necessarily reflective of the likely cash flow upon There were no changes in the accounting previously applied to the actual settlements.
Where fair value measurements cannot be Glencore subsidiaries, investments and joint arrangements as a derived from publicly available information, they are estimated result of the adoption of the Consolidation Standards.
The adoption using models and other valuation methods.
To the extent possible, of the Consolidation Standards required retrospective application.
the assumptions and inputs used take into account externally verifiable inputs.
However, such information is by nature subject to IFRS 13 uncertainty, particularly where comparable market-based IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance for fair value transactions rarely exist.
The scope of IFRS 13 is broad: the fair value measurement requirements of IFRS 13 apply to both Adoption of new and revised Standards financial instrument items and non-financial instrument items for In the current year, Glencore has applied a number of new and which other IFRSs require or permit fair value measurements and revised IFRS standards and interpretations which were adopted as disclosures about fair value measurements, except for those items of 1 January 2013: excluded from IFRS 13 as described in the Basis of preparation.
IFRS 13 does not change when an entity is required to use fair value IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 10 but rather provides guidance on how to measure fair value under IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 11 IFRS when fair value is required or permitted.
IFRS 13 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities IFRS 12 transfer a liability in an orderly transaction in the principal most IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements 2011 IAS 27 advantageous market at the measurement date under current market conditions.
Fair value under IFRS 13 is an exit price IAS 28 Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures IAS 28 regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IFRS 13 using another valuation technique.
The application of IFRS 13 has not materially impacted the fair value measurements of Glencore.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits IAS 19 Additional disclosures where required, are provided in the Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items in Other individual notes relating to the assets and liabilities whose fair Comprehensive Income Amendments to IAS 1 values were determined.
The fair value hierarchy is provided in note 28.
Amendments to IFRS 7 Disclosure Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IFRS 7 Amendments to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets Amendments to IAS 36 IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine IFRIC 20 IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine IFRIC 20 130 IAS 19 2011 New and revised Standards not yet effective IAS 19 requires all actuarial gains and losses to be recognised At the date of authorisation of these consolidated financial immediately in other comprehensive income which differs from statements, the following new and revised standards and Glencores previous policy which applied the corridor method and interpretations applicable to Glencore were issued but not yet requires the expected return on plan assets recognised in the effective: consolidated statement of income to be calculated based on the rate IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: IFRS 9 modifies the classification used to discount the defined benefit obligations.
and measurement of certain classes of financial assets and liabilities.
The most significant change is to rationalise from four Glencore applied the standard retrospectively in accordance with to two primary categories of financial assets.
the transitional provisions and as a result recognised $164 million of previously unrecognised actuarial losses as at 1 January 2012 $176 Amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and million at 1 January 2013, increasing the post-retirement benefits Liabilities: The amendments to IAS 32 clarify the requirements provision with a corresponding adjustment to shareholders equity relating to the offset of financial assets and liabilities.
Specifically, and an associated deferred tax impact see note 23.
IAS 19 required the amendments clarify the meaning of currently has a legally retrospective application.
enforceable right to set-off and simultaneous realisation and settlement.
Amendments to IAS 1 Amendments to IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and The amendments to IAS 1 do not impact Glencores financial Continuation of Hedge Accounting: The amendments to IAS 39 statement balances however they impact the presentation within clarify the criteria required to be met such that there would be no the Statement of Comprehensive Income as Glencore is now need to discontinue hedge accounting if a hedging derivative required to classify components of other comprehensive income was novated.
based on whether they are or may eventually be recycled into income e. g. currency translation and cash flow hedging The Directors are currently evaluating the impact these new adjustments versus those items that will never be recycled into standards may have on the financial statements of Glencore.
income e. g. actuarial gains and losses on pension plans.
The amendments to IAS 1 required retrospective application.
Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost Amendments to IFRS 7 convention except for the revaluation of certain financial assets, The amendments to IFRS 7 require disclosure of information about liabilities and marketing inventories that are measured at revalued rights of offset and related arrangements such as collateral posting amounts or fair values at the end of each reporting period as requirements for financial instruments under an enforceable explained in the accounting policies below.
Historical cost is master netting or similar agreement.
Other than the additional generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in disclosure, the application of amendments to IFRS 7 did not impact exchange for goods and services.
The principal accounting policies the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements adopted are set out below.
The amendments to IFRS 7 required retrospective application.
The Directors have assessed that the financial statements be prepared on a going concern basis after their consideration of the Amendments to IAS 36 Groups budgeted cash flows and related assumptions, including appropriate stress testing thereof, key risks and uncertainties, The amendments to IAS 36 clarify the circumstances in which the undrawn debt facilities, debt maturity review and in accordance recoverable amount of assets or cash-generating units are required with the Going Concern and Liquidity Guidance for Directors of to be disclosed, clarify the disclosures required, and introduce an UK Companies 2009 published by the Financial Reporting Council.
explicit requirement to disclose the discount rate used in Further information on Glencores objectives, policies and processes determining impairment or reversals where recoverable amount for managing its capital and financial risks are detailed in note 26. based on fair value less costs of disposal is determined using a present value technique.
Other than the additional disclosure, the All amounts are expressed in millions of United States Dollars, application of amendments to IAS 36 did not impact the amounts unless otherwise stated, consistent with the predominant functional recognised in the consolidated financial statements see note 5. currency of Glencores operations.
The amendments to IAS 36 required retrospective application.
Under Article 105 11 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 the IFRIC 20 directors of a holding company need not prepare separate accounts IFRIC 20 provides a model for accounting for waste removal i. e. company only accounts if consolidated accounts for the stripping costs incurred during the production phase of a surface company are prepared, unless required to do so by the members of open pit mine.
The model and related guidance requires the the company by ordinary resolution.
The members of the Company apportionment of the costs between those incurred to obtain a have not passed a resolution requiring separate accounts and, in the current versus a future benefit and the capitalisation of the latter Directors opinion, the Company meets the definition of a holding with the depreciation method to apply to capitalised stripping company.
As permitted by the law, the Directors have elected not to costs.
The Group operates open pit mines at a number of its existing operations.
Upon adoption of IFRIC 20, there were no significant changes in the balances previously recognised.
131 Notes to the financial statements Changes in Glencores interests in subsidiaries that do not result in 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions with any Principles of consolidation difference between the amount by which the non-controlling The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or statements of the Company and entities including structured received being recognised directly in equity and attributed to equity entities controlled by the Company and its subsidiaries.
Control is achieved when Glencore is exposed, or has rights, to When Glencore loses control of a subsidiary, a gain or loss is variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the recognised in the consolidated statement of income and is ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
calculated as the difference between i the aggregate of the fair Specifically, Glencore controls an investee if, and only if, Glencore value of the consideration received and the fair value of any has all of the following: retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the assets including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and any nonpower over the investee i. e. existing rights that give it the controlling interests.
All amounts previously recognised in other current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee : comprehensive income in relation to that subsidiary are accounted exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with for as if Glencore had directly disposed of the related assets or the investee: and liabilities of the subsidiary i. e. reclassified to profit or loss or transferred to another category of equity as specified permitted by the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
The fair value of any investment retained in the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost is regarded as the When Glencore has less than a majority of the voting rights of an fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under investee or similar rights of an investee, it considers all relevant IAS 39, when applicable, or the cost on initial recognition of an facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over the investment in an associate or a joint venture.
investee including: the size of Glencores holding of voting rights relative to the size Investments in associates and joint ventures and dispersion of holdings of the other vote holders: Associates and jointly ventures together Associates in which potential voting rights held by Glencore, other vote holders or Glencore exercises significant influence or joint control are other parties: accounted for using the equity method.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions rights arising from other contractual arrangements: and of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that Significant influence is presumed if Glencore holds between 20% Glencore has, or does not have, the current ability to direct the and 50% of the voting rights, unless evidence exists to the contrary.
relevant activities at the time that decisions need to be made, A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have including voting patterns at previous shareholders' meetings.
joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint arrangement.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if of control over an arrangement, which exists only when decisions facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or about relevant strategic and or key operating decisions require more of the three elements of control listed above.
Consolidation of unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
a subsidiary begins when Glencore obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when Glencore loses control of the subsidiary.
Equity accounting involves Glencore recording its share of the Specifically, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or Associates net income and equity.
Glencores interest in an disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated Associate is initially recorded at cost and is subsequently adjusted statement of income and other comprehensive income from the date for Glencores share of changes in net assets of the Associate, less Glencore gains control until the date when Glencore ceases to any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Glencore transacts with an Associate, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of Glencores interest in that Associate.
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income are attributed to the owners of the Company and to the nonChanges in Glencores interests in Associates are accounted for as a controlling interests.
Total comprehensive income of subsidiaries is gain or loss on disposal with any difference between the amount by attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling which the carrying value of the Associate is adjusted and the fair interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a value of the consideration received being recognised directly in the deficit balance.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the Group's accounting policies.
All intragroup assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
132 Joint operations After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets, and acquisition date, allocated to the CGUs that are expected to benefit obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
from the synergies of the combination.
CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more When Glencore undertakes its activities under joint operations, frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be Glencore applies the proportionate consolidation method and impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is recognises: less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first its assets, including its share of any assets held jointly: to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata based on the its liabilities, including its share of any liabilities incurred jointly: carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any impairment loss for its revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from goodwill is recognised directly in profit or loss.
An impairment the joint operation: loss recognised for goodwill is not able to be reversed in subsequent periods.
its share of the revenue from the sale of the output by the joint operation: and On disposal of the relevant CGU, the attributable amount of its expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly.
goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
The Group accounts for the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to its interest in a joint operation in accordance If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by with the IFRSs applicable to the particular assets, liabilities, the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, revenues and expenses.
Glencore reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted Where Glencore transacts with a joint operation, unrealised profits for additional information obtained during the measurement and losses are eliminated to the extent of Glencores interest in that period which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date joint operation.
about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised at Business combinations and goodwill that date.
Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using Non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests and the acquisition method of accounting.
The cost of the acquisition is entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entity's net measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum of the assets in the event of liquidation may be initially measured either at acquisition date fair values of the assets transferred, liabilities fair value or at the non-controlling interests' proportionate share of incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity the recognised amounts of the acquiree's identifiable net assets.
The interests issued in exchange for control of the acquiree.
The choice of measurement basis is made on a  assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities identifiable transaction basis.
Other types of non-controlling interests are net assets are recognised at their fair value at the date of measured at fair value or, when applicable, on the basis specified in acquisition.
Acquisition related costs are recognised in the another IFRS.
consolidated statement of income as incurred.
Similar procedures are applied in accounting for the purchases of Where a business combination is achieved in stages, Glencores interests in Associates.
Any goodwill arising from such purchases is previously held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to included within the carrying amount of the investment in fair value at the acquisition date i. e. the date Glencore attains Associates, but not amortised thereafter.
Any excess of Glencores control and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in the share of the net fair value of the Associates identifiable net assets consolidated statement of income.
over the cost of the investment is included in the consolidated statement of income in the period of the purchase.
Where the fair value of consideration transferred for a business combination exceeds the fair values attributable to Glencores share The main operating and finance subsidiaries and investments of of the identifiable net assets, the difference is treated as purchased Glencore are listed in note 35. goodwill.
Non-current assets held for sale and disposal groups Non-current assets and assets and liabilities included in disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use, they are available for immediate disposal and the sale is highly probable.
Non-current assets held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell.
133 Notes to the financial statements Borrowing costs 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Borrowing costs are expensed as incurred except where they relate Revenue recognition to the financing of construction or development of qualifying assets Revenue is recognised when Glencore has transferred to the buyer in which case they are capitalised up to the date when the all significant risks and rewards of ownership of the assets sold.
qualifying asset is ready for its intended use.
Revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes and is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable to the Retirement benefits extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to Glencore operates various pension schemes in accordance with Glencore and the revenues and costs can be reliably measured.
In local requirements and practices of the respective countries.
The most instances sales revenue is recognised when the product is annual costs for defined contribution plans that are funded by delivered to the destination specified by the customer, which is payments to separate trustee administered funds or insurance typically the vessel on which it is shipped, the destination port or companies equal the contributions that are required under the plans the customers premises.
and accounted for as an expense.
For certain commodities, the sales price is determined on a Glencore uses the Projected Unit Credit Actuarial method to provisional basis at the date of sale as the final selling price is determine the present value of its defined benefit obligations and subject to movements in market prices up to the date of final the related current service cost and, where applicable, past service pricing, normally ranging from 30 to 90 days after initial booking.
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate at the Revenue on provisionally priced sales is recognised based on the beginning of the period to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
estimated fair value of the total consideration receivable.
The revenue adjustment mechanism embedded within provisionally The cost of providing pensions is charged to the consolidated priced sales arrangements has the character of a commodity statement of income so as to recognise current and past service derivative.
Accordingly, the fair value of the final sales price costs, interest cost on defined benefit obligations, and the effect of adjustment is re-estimated continuously and changes in fair value any curtailments or settlements, net of expected returns on plan are recognised as an adjustment to revenue.
In all cases, fair value is assets.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in other estimated by reference to forward market prices.
comprehensive income and will not be reclassified to the consolidated statement of income.
The retirement benefit obligation Royalty, interest and dividend income is recognised when the right recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position to receive payment has been established, it is probable that the represents the actual deficit or surplus in Glencores defined benefit economic benefits will flow to Glencore and the amount of income plans.
Any surplus resulting from this calculation is limited to the can be measured reliably.
Royalty revenue is recognised on an present value of any economic benefits available in the form of accrual basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant refunds from the plans or reductions in future contributions to the agreement.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference plans.
to the principal outstanding and the applicable effective interest rate.
Glencore also provides post-retirement healthcare benefits to certain employees in Canada, South Africa and the United States.
These are Foreign currency translation accounted for in a similar manner to the defined benefit pension Glencores reporting currency and the functional currency of the plans, however are unfunded.
majority of its operations is the US dollar as this is assessed to be the principal currency of the economic environment in which Share-based payments it operates.
Equity-settled share-based payments Foreign currency transactions Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at the fair value of the awards based on the market value of the shares at the grant Transactions in foreign currencies are converted into the functional date.
Fair value excludes the effect of non-market based vesting currency of each entity using the exchange rate prevailing at the conditions.
The fair value is charged to the consolidated statement transaction date.
Monetary assets and liabilities outstanding at year of income and credited to retained earnings on a straight-line basis end are converted at year end rates.
The resulting exchange over the period the estimated awards are expected to vest.
differences are recorded in the consolidated statement of income.
At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimate of the Translation of financial statements number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the For the purposes of consolidation, assets and liabilities of group effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
The impact of the companies whose functional currency is in a currency other than revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the the U. S. Dollar are translated into U. S. Dollars using year end consolidated statement of income such that the cumulative expense exchange rates, while their statements of income are translated reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to using average rates of exchange for the year.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition of Cash-settled share-based payments a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is initially operation and are translated at the closing rate.
Translation recognised at fair value based on the estimated number of awards adjustments are included as a separate component of shareholders that are expected to vest, adjusting for market and non-market equity and have no consolidated statement of income impact to the based performance conditions.
Subsequently, at each reporting extent that no disposal of the foreign operation has occurred.
period until the liability is settled, it is remeasured to fair value with any changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated statement of income.
134 Income taxes Exploration and evaluation expenditure Income taxes consist of current and deferred income taxes.
Current Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs incurred in taxes represent income taxes expected to be payable based on the exploration and evaluation of potential mineral and petroleum enacted or substantively enacted tax rates at the period end on resources and includes costs such as researching and analysing expected current taxable income, and any adjustment to tax payable historical exploration data, exploratory drilling, trenching, in respect of previous years.
Deferred taxes are recognised for sampling and the costs of pre-feasibility studies.
Exploration and temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and evaluation expenditure for each area of interest, other than that liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax acquired from another entity, is charged to the consolidated bases used in the computation of taxable income, using enacted or statement of income as incurred except when the expenditure is substantively enacted income tax rates which are expected to be expected to be recouped from future exploitation or sale of the area effective at the time of reversal of the underlying temporary of interest and it is planned to continue with active and significant difference.
Deferred tax assets and unused tax losses are only operations in relation to the area, or at the reporting period end, the recognised to the extent that their recoverability is probable.
activity has not reached a stage which permits a reasonable Deferred tax assets are reviewed at reporting period end and assessment of the existence of commercially recoverable reserves, in amended to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related which case the expenditure is capitalised.
Purchased exploration benefit will be realised.
To the extent that a deferred tax asset not and evaluation assets are recognised at their fair value at previously recognised but which subsequently fulfils the criteria for acquisition.
recognition, an asset is then recognised.
Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is recorded as a Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to component of mineral and petroleum rights in property, plant and income taxes levied by the same authority and Glencore has both equipment.
the right and the intention to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net or simultaneous basis.
The tax effect of certain As the capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure asset is temporary differences is not recognised principally with respect to not available for use, it is not depreciated.
All capitalised the initial recognition of an asset or liability other than those exploration and evaluation expenditure is monitored for indications arising in a business combination or in a manner that initially of impairment.
Where a potential impairment is indicated, an impacted accounting or taxable profit and temporary differences assessment is performed for each area of interest or at the CGU relating to investments in subsidiaries and Associates to the extent level.
To the extent that capitalised expenditure is not expected to be that Glencore can control the timing of the reversal of the recovered it is charged to the consolidated statement of income.
temporary difference and it is probable the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is provided Administration costs that are not directly attributable to a specific in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions.
These exploration area are charged to the consolidated income statement.
adjustments may relate to assets such as extraction rights that, in Licence costs paid in connection with a right to explore in an general, are not eligible for income tax allowances.
existing exploration area are capitalised and amortised over the term of the permit.
Current and deferred tax are recognised as an expense or income in the consolidated statement of income, except when they relate to Development expenditure items that are recognised outside the consolidated statement of When commercially recoverable reserves are determined and such income whether in other comprehensive income or directly in development receives the appropriate approvals, capitalised equity or where they arise from the initial accounting for a exploration and evaluation expenditure is transferred to business combination.
All subsequent development expenditure is capitalised and classified as construction in progress, provided Royalties, extraction taxes and other levies taxes are treated as commercial viability conditions continue to be satisfied.
Proceeds taxation arrangements when they have the characteristics of an from the sale of ore extracted during the development phase are income tax including being imposed and determined in accordance netted against development expenditure.
Upon completion of with regulations established by the respective governments development and commencement of production, capitalised taxation authority and the amount payable is based on taxable development costs are transferred as required to either mineral and income rather than physical quantities produced or as a petroleum rights or deferred mining costs and depreciated using percentage of revenues after adjustment for temporary the unit of production method UOP.
For such arrangements, current and deferred tax is provided on the same basis as described above for other forms of Property, plant and equipment taxation.
Obligations arising from royalty arrangements that do not Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, being the fair satisfy these criteria are recognised as current provisions and value of the consideration given to acquire or construct the asset, included in cost of goods sold.
including directly attributable costs required to bring the asset to the location or to a condition necessary for operation and the direct cost of dismantling and removing the asset, less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Property, plant and equipment are depreciated to their estimated residual value over the estimated useful life of the specific asset concerned, or the estimated remaining life of the associated mine LOM, field or lease.
135 Notes to the financial statements Mineral and petroleum rights 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Mineral and petroleum reserves, resources and rights together Property, plant and equipment continued Mineral Rights which can be reasonably valued, are recognised in Depreciation commences when the asset is available for use.
The the assessment of fair values on acquisition.
Mineral Rights for major categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated which values cannot be reasonably determined are not recognised.
amortised on a UOP and or straight-line basis as follows: Exploitable Mineral Rights are amortised using the UOP basis over the commercially recoverable reserves and, in certain Buildings 1045 years circumstances, other mineral resources.
Mineral resources are included in amortisation calculations where there is a high degree Freehold land not depreciated of confidence that they will be extracted in an economic manner.
Plant and equipment 330 years UOP Mineral rights and petroleum rights UOP Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs arising from Deferred mining costs UOP the installation of plant and other site preparation work, discounted using a risk adjusted discount rate to their net present value, are Assets under finance leases, where substantially all the risks and provided for and capitalised at the time such an obligation arises.
rewards of ownership transfer to the Group as lessee, are The costs are charged to the consolidated statement of income over capitalised and amortised over their expected useful lives on the the life of the operation through depreciation of the asset and the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of the unwinding of the discount on the provision.
All other leases are classified as operating leases, the expenditures for which are charged against income over the Costs for restoration of subsequent site disturbance, which is accounting periods covered by the lease term.
created on an ongoing basis during production, are provided for at their net present values and charged to the consolidated statement Biological assets of income as extraction progresses.
Biological assets are carried at their fair value less estimated selling costs.
Any changes in fair value less estimated selling costs are Changes in the estimated timing of the rehabilitation or changes to included in the consolidated statement of income in the period in the estimated future costs are accounted for prospectively by which they arise.
recognising an adjustment to the rehabilitation liability and a corresponding adjustment to the asset to which it relates, provided Deferred stripping costs the reduction in the provision is not greater than the depreciated Stripping costs incurred in the development of a mine or pit capitalised cost of the related asset, in which case the capitalised before production commences are capitalised as part of the cost of cost is reduced to nil and the remaining adjustment recognised in constructing the mine or pit and subsequently amortised over the the consolidated statement of income.
In the case of closed sites, life of the mine or pit on a UOP basis.
changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately in the consolidated statement of income.
Production stripping costs related to accessing an identifiable component of the ore body to realise benefits in the form of Intangible assets improved access to ore to be mined in the future stripping activity Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial asset, are capitalised within mineral properties provided all the recognition at cost.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a following conditions are met: business combination is their fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition intangible assets are carried at cost less a it is probable that the future economic benefit associated with any accumulated amortisation calculated on a straight-line basis the stripping activity will be realised: over their useful lives and accumulated impairment losses, if any.
b the component of the ore body for which access has been Internally generated intangibles are not capitalised.
Instead, the improved can be identified: and related expenditure is recognised in the consolidated statement of income and other comprehensive income in the period in which the c the costs relating to the stripping activity associated with the expenditure is incurred.
improved access can be reliably measured.
Identifiable intangible assets with a finite life are amortised on a If all of the criteria are not met, the production stripping costs are straight-line basis over their expected useful life.
The amortisation charged to the consolidated statement of income as they are method and period are reviewed annually and impairment testing incurred.
is undertaken when circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Other than goodwill which is not The stripping activity asset is subsequently depreciated on a UOP depreciated, Glencore has no identifiable intangible assets with an basis over the life of the identified component of the ore body that indefinite life.
became more accessible as a result of the stripping activity and is then stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
136 The major categories of intangibles are amortised on a straight-line Onerous contracts basis as follows: An onerous contract is considered to exist where Glencore has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the Port allocation rights 30-40 years obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received from the contract.
Present obligations Future warehousing fees 5-10 years arising under onerous contracts are recognised and measured as Licences, trademarks and software 3-20 years provisions.
Royalty arrangements 30-40 years Unfavourable contracts Acquired offtake arrangements 5-10 years An unfavourable contract is considered to exist when Glencore, in a business combination, acquires a contract under which the terms of Other investments the contract require Glencore to sell products or purchase services Equity investments, other than investments in Associates, are on terms which are economically unfavourable compared to current recorded at fair value unless such fair value is not reliably market terms at the time of the business combination.
Unfavourable determinable in which case they are carried at cost.
Changes in fair contracts are recognised at the present value of the economic loss value are recorded in the consolidated statement of income unless and amortised into income over the term of the contract.
they are classified as available for sale, in which case fair value movements are recognised in other comprehensive income and are Inventories subsequently recognised in the consolidated statement of income The vast majority of marketing inventories are valued at fair value when realised by sale or redemption, or when a reduction in fair less costs to sell with the remainder valued at the lower of cost or value is judged to be a significant or prolonged decline.
Unrealised gains and losses from changes in fair value are reported in cost of goods sold.
Impairment Glencore conducts, at least annually, an internal review of asset Production inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net values which is used as a source of information to assess for any realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first-in-first-out indications of impairment.
Formal impairment tests are carried out, FIFO or the weighted average method and comprises material at least annually, for cash generating units containing goodwill and costs, labour costs and allocated production related overhead costs.
for all other non-current assets when events or changes in Financing and storage costs related to inventory are expensed as circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
A formal impairment test involves determining whether the Cash and cash equivalents carrying amounts are in excess of their recoverable amounts.
An Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held at bank, cash in hand assets recoverable amount is determined as the higher of its fair and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Such reviews are months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates undertaken on an asset-by-asset basis, except where assets do not their fair value.
generate cash flows independent of other assets, in which case the review is undertaken at the CGU level.
Financial instruments Financial assets are classified as either financial assets at fair value If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity an impairment loss is recorded in the consolidated statement of investments or available for sale financial assets depending upon income to reflect the asset at the lower amount.
the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value on the trade date, An impairment loss is reversed in the consolidated statement of including, in the case of instruments not recorded at fair value income if there is a change in the estimates used to determine the through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
recoverable amount since the prior impairment loss was recognised.
Subsequently, financial assets are carried at fair value other The carrying amount is increased to the recoverable amount but not investments, derivatives and marketable securities or amortised beyond the carrying amount net of depreciation or amortisation cost less impairment accounts receivable and advances and loans.
which would have arisen if the prior impairment loss had not been Financial liabilities other than derivatives are initially recognised at recognised.
Goodwill impairments and impairments of available for fair value of consideration received net of transaction costs as sale equity investments cannot be subsequently reversed.
appropriate and subsequently carried at amortised cost.
Provisions Convertible bonds Provisions are recognised when Glencore has a present obligation At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component is legal or constructive, as a result of past events, and it is probable determined by discounting the contractual future cash flows using that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits that can a market rate for a similar non-convertible instrument.
The liability be reliably estimated will be required to settle the liability.
component is recorded as a liability on an amortised cost basis using the effective interest method.
The equity component is The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the recognised as the difference between the fair value of the proceeds consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance as a whole and the fair value of the liability component and it is not sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties subsequently remeasured.
On conversion, the liability is reclassified surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using to equity and no gain or loss is recognised in the consolidated the cash flow estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying statement of income and upon expiry of the conversion rights, any amount is the present value of those cash flows when the effect of remaining equity portion will be transferred to retained earnings.
the time value of money is material.
137 Notes to the financial statements 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Own shares The cost of purchases of own shares are deducted from equity.
Where they are purchased, issued to employees or sold, no gain or loss is recognised in the consolidated statement of income.
Such gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
Any proceeds received on disposal of the shares or transfers to employees are recognised in equity.
Derivatives and hedging activities Derivative instruments, which include physical contracts to sell or purchase commodities that do not meet the own use exemption, are initially recognised at fair value when Glencore becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument and are subsequently remeasured to fair value at the end of each reporting period.
Fair values are determined using quoted market prices, dealer price quotations or using models and other valuation techniques, the key inputs for which include current market and contractual prices for the underlying instrument, time to expiry, yield curves, volatility of the underlying instrument and counterparty risk.
Gains and losses on derivative instruments for which hedge accounting is not applied, other than the revenue adjustment mechanism embedded within provisionally priced sales, are recognised in cost of goods sold.
Those derivatives qualifying and designated as hedges are either i a Fair Value Hedge of the change in fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment, or ii a Cash Flow Hedge of the change in cash flows to be received or paid relating to a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable transaction.
A change in the fair value of derivatives designated as a Fair Value Hedge is reflected together with the change in the fair value of the hedged item in the consolidated statement of income.
A change in the fair value of derivatives designated as a Cash Flow Hedge is initially recognised as a cash flow hedge-reserve in shareholders equity.
The deferred amount is then released to the consolidated statement of income in the same periods during which the hedged transaction affects the consolidated statement of income.
Hedge ineffectiveness is recorded in the consolidated statement of income when it occurs.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in shareholders equity and is recognised in the consolidated statement of income when the committed or forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the consolidated statement of income.
However, if a forecast or committed transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in equity is immediately transferred to the consolidated statement of income.
A derivative may be embedded in a host contract.
Such combinations are known as hybrid instruments and at the date of issuance, the embedded derivative is separated from the host contract and accounted for as a stand-alone derivative if the criteria for separation are met.
The host contract is accounted for in accordance with its relevant accounting policy.
SEGMENT INFORMATION Glencore is organised and operates on a worldwide basis in three core business segments metals and minerals, energy products and agricultural products, with each business segment responsible for the marketing, sourcing, hedging, logistics and industrial investment activities of their respective products and reflecting the structure used by Glencores management to assess the performance of Glencore.
The business segments contributions to the Group are primarily derived from the net margin or premium earned from physical marketing activities net sale and purchase of physical commodities, provision of marketing and related value-add services and the margin earned from industrial asset activities net resulting from the sale of physical commodities over the cost of production and or cost of sales and comprise the following underlying key commodities: Metals and minerals: Zinc, copper, lead, alumina, aluminium, ferro alloys, nickel, cobalt and iron ore, including smelting, refining, mining, processing and storage related operations of the relevant commodities: Energy products: Crude oil, oil products, steam coal and metallurgical coal supported by investments in coal mining and oil production operations, ports, vessels and storage facilities: Agriculture products: Wheat, corn, canola, barley, rice, oil seeds, meals, edible oils, biofuels, cotton and sugar supported by investments in farming, storage, handling, processing and port facilities.
Corporate and other: consolidated statement of income amounts represent Glencores share of income related to Xstrata prior to the date of acquisition, the technology services division and other unallocated Group related expenses including variable pool bonus charges.
Statement of financial position amounts represent Group related balances.
The financial performance of the segments is principally evaluated with reference to Adjusted EBIT EBITDA which is the net result of revenue less cost of goods sold and selling and administrative expenses plus share of income from associates and joint ventures, dividend income and the attributable share of underlying Adjusted EBIT EBITDA of certain associates and joint ventures.
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those described in note 1 with the exception of certain associates and joint ventures.
Under IFRS 11, Glencores investments in the Antamina copper zinc mine 34% owned and the Cerrejn coal mine 33% owned are considered to be associates as they are not subject to joint control and the Collahuasi copper mine 44% owned is considered to be a joint venture.
Associates and joint ventures are required to be accounted for in Glencores financial statements under the equity method.
For internal reporting and analysis, Glencore evaluates the performance of these investments under the proportionate consolidation method reflecting Glencores proportionate share of the revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities of the investments.
The balances as presented for internal reporting purposes are reconciled to Glencores statutory disclosures as outlined in the following tables.
139 Notes to the financial statements 2.
SEGMENT INFORMATION continued Glencore accounts for intra-segment sales and transfers where applicable as if the sales or transfers were to third parties, i. e. at arms length commercial terms.
2013 Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate US$ million minerals products products and other Total Revenue from third parties 64,080 139,709 30,039 138 233,966 Marketing activities Adjusted EBIT 1,622 629 198 93 2,356 Depreciation and amortisation 21 37 185 243 Adjusted EBITDA 1,643 666 383 93 2,599 Industrial activities Adjusted EBIT 2,742 907 6 29 3,614 1 Depreciation and amortisation 2,554 1,623 67 9 4,253 Adjusted EBITDA 5,296 2,530 61 20 7,867 Total adjusted EBITDA 6,939 3,196 444 113 10,466 Depreciation and amortisation 2,575 1,660 252 9 4,496 Total adjusted EBIT 4,364 1,536 192 122 5,970 2 Significant items 3 Other expense net 10,844 4 Share of associates exceptional items 51 5 Mark to market loss on certain aluminium positions 95 6 Unrealised intergroup profit elimination adjustments 261 Loss on sale of investments 40 7 Interest expense net 1,394 8 Income tax 583 Loss for the year 7,298 1 Includes an adjustment of $447 million 2012: $Nil to depreciation and amortisation expenses related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis.
Metals and minerals segment: $271 million and Energy products segment $176 million, see table below.
2 Significant items of income and expense which, due to their financial impacts, nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, have been separated for internal reporting and analysis of Glencores results.
4 Share of associates exceptional items comprise Glencores share of exceptional charges booked directly by Xstrata relating mainly to various costs incurred by Xstrata in connection with its acquisition by Glencore.
5 Represents an accounting measurement mismatch between spot and forward prices in respect of certain aluminium commercial hedging activities where such amounts will reverse in future periods.
Due to the hedging being done on a portfolio basis, hedge treatment for IFRS accounting purposes where such amounts would not impact the consolidated statement of income is not achievable.
6 Represents the required adjustment to eliminate unrealised profit or losses arising on intergroup transactions.
For Glencore, such adjustments arise on the sale of product, in the ordinary course of business, from its Industrial operations to its Marketing arm and management assesses segment performance prior to any such adjustments, as if the sales were to third parties.
7 Includes an adjustment of $6 million 2012: $Nil to interest expenses related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis.
Metals and minerals segment: interest income of $1 million and Energy products segment interest expense of $7 million, see table below.
8 Includes an adjustment of $329 million 2012: $Nil to income tax expenses related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis.
Metals and minerals segment: $299 million and Energy products segment $30 million, see table below.
140 The reconciliation of certain associates and joint ventures Adjusted EBIT to Share of net income from associates and joint ventures for the year ended 31 December 2013 is as follows: Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate Total US$ million minerals products products and other Revenue from third parties 64,080 139,709 30,039 138 233,966 Impact of presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a 732 540 1,272 proportionate consolidation basis Revenue from third parties reported measure 63,348 139,169 30,039 138 232,694 Associates and joint ventures Adjusted EBITDA 1,249 238 1,487 Depreciation and amortisation 271 176 447 Associates and joint ventures Adjusted EBIT 978 62 1,040 Net finance costs 1 7 6 Income tax expense 299 30 329 Share of income from material associates and joint ventures 680 25 705 Share of income from other associates 37 45 7 126 141 Share of income from associates and joint ventures 643 70 7 126 846 Capital expenditure 6,738 2,552 293 4 9,587 2013 Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate Total US$ million minerals products products and other Current assets 26,737 17,164 6,554 316 50,771 Current liabilities 10,456 15,612 2,708 529 29,305 Allocatable current capital employed 16,2811,552 3,846 213 21,466 Property, plant and equipment 37,170 26,810 3,195 332 67,507 Intangible assets 3,755 4,269 883 146 9,053 Investments in associates and other investments 9,358 3,823 430 19 13,630 Non-current advances and loans 987 2,561 141 406 4,095 Allocatable non-current capital employed 51,270 37,463 4,649 903 94,285 1 Other assets 9,876 9,876 2 Other liabilities 72,478 72,478 Total net assets 67,551 39,015 8,495 61,912 53,149 3 Capital expenditure 7,1142,696293 410,107 1 Other assets include deferred tax assets, marketable securities, cash and cash equivalents and assets held for sale.
2 Other liabilities include borrowings, non-current deferred income, deferred tax liabilities, non-current provisions, non-current financial liabilities and liabilities held for sale.
3 Includes an adjustment of $520 million 2012: $Nil to capital expenditure related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis.
Metals and minerals segment: $376 million and Energy products segment $144 million, see table below.
141 Notes to the financial statements 2.
SEGMENT INFORMATION continued 2012 Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate US$ million minerals products products and other Total Revenue from third parties 56,674 136,937 20,825 214,436 Marketing activities Adjusted EBIT 1,363 435 371 39 2,130 Depreciation and amortisation 16 59 23 98 Adjusted EBITDA 1,379 494 394 39 2,228 Industrial activities Adjusted EBIT 708 594 10 1,048 2,340 Depreciation and amortisation 917 389 69 1,375 Adjusted EBITDA 1,625 983 59 1,048 3,715 Total adjusted EBITDA 3,004 1,477 453 1,009 5,943 Depreciation and amortisation 933 448 92 1,473 Total adjusted EBIT 2,071 1,029 361 1,009 4,470 Significant items Other expense net 1,214 3 Share of associates exceptional items 875 4 Mark to market loss on certain natural gas contracts 123 5 Unrealised intergroup profit elimination adjustments 84 Interest expense net 970 Loss on sale of investments 128 Income tax credit 76 Income for the year 1,152 1 Significant items of income and expense which, due to their financial impacts, nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, have been separated for internal reporting and analysis of Glencores results.
3 Share of associates exceptional items comprise Glencores share of exceptional charges booked directly by Xstrata relating mainly to various impairment charges including that associated with its platinum investments and operations in South Africa and nickel operations in Australia which were impacted by the challenging market environments and costs incurred by Xstrata in connection with the proposed acquisition by Glencore.
4 Represents movements in fair value of certain fixed price forward natural gas purchase contracts entered into to hedge the price risk of this cost exposure in our alumina production activities.
These contracts were initially concluded in 2008 with mark to market movements accounted for in equity cash flow hedge reserves.
Consistent with Glencores current policy not to hedge future operating expenditures there are no such contracts covering periods beyond 2012.
5 Represents the required adjustment to eliminate unrealised profit or losses arising on intergroup transactions.
142 2012 Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate Total 1 US$ million minerals products products and other Restated Current assets 20,024 18,256 9,538 649 48,467 Current liabilities 9,500 13,941 3,785 137 27,363 Allocatable current capital employed 10,524 4,315 5,753 512 21,104 Property, plant and equipment 14,134 5,347 4,142 23,623 Intangible assets 180 1,098 929 2,207 Investments in associates and other investments 2,881 799 458 16,215 20,353 Non-current advances and loans 921 2,688 149 3,758 Allocatable non-current capital employed 18,116 9,932 5,678 16,215 49,941 2 Other assets 7,156 7,156 3 Other liabilities 44,028 44,028 Total net assets 28,640 14,247 11,431 20,145 34,173 Capital expenditure 5,761 3,311 4,262 13,334 1 Certain amounts shown here reflect the adoption of new and revised standards as detailed in note 1 and therefore do not correspond to the consolidated statement of financial position for the year ended 31 December 2012.
2 Other assets include deferred tax assets, marketable securities, cash and cash equivalents and assets held for sale.
3 Other liabilities include borrowings, non-current deferred income, deferred tax liabilities, non-current provisions, Viterra asset acquirer loans and liabilities held for sale.
Geographical information 2012 1 US$ million 2013 Restated 2 Revenue from third parties The Americas 54,675 42,295 Europe 78,782 108,904 Asia 67,858 44,274 Africa 25,665 16,910 Oceania 5,714 2,053 232,694 214,436 3 Non-current assets The Americas 22,809 6,843 Europe 11,438 17,707 Asia 6,400 5,652 Africa 20,972 11,255 Oceania 27,648 3,137 89,267 44,594 1 Comprises adjustments to the fair value calculations in relation to the acquisition of Viterra see note 25.
2 Revenue by geographical destination is based on the country of incorporation of the sales counterparty however this may not necessarily be the country of the counterparts ultimate parent and or final destination of product.
3 Non-current assets are non-current assets excluding other investments, advances and loans and deferred tax assets.
143 Notes to the financial statements 3.
LOSS ON SALE OF INVESTMENTS NET US$ million 2013 2012 Loss on sale in investment in associates 40 133 Other 5 Total 40 128 The net loss on sale of investments in associates in 2013 and 2012 comprised primarily an accounting dilution loss following Xstratas share issuances in April 2013 and March 2012, which saw Glencores ownership reduce.
OTHER EXPENSE NET US$ million Notes 2013 2012 Changes in mark to market valuations on investments held for trading net 308 2 Changes in mark to market valuation of certain coal forward contracts 87 179 Revaluation of previously held interest in newly acquired businesses net 1,160 497 Viterra acquisition related expense income net 36 11 Xstrata acquisition related expenses 294 58 Impairments 5 9,086 1,650 Phantom equity awards granted on listing 19 109 Foreign exchange loss 126 4 Other income expense net 79 82 Total 10,844 1,214 1 This item, if classified by function of expense would be recognised in cost of goods sold.
All other amounts in Other income expense net are classified by function.
2 Includes $15 million gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2012: loss of $7 million and $37 million of income relating to the Agrium and Richardson assets which were acquired and subsequently sold as part of the Viterra acquisition.
These were classified as held for sale as at 31 December 2012 and were disposed of during 2013 see note 15.
Together with foreign exchange movements and mark to market movements on investments held for trading, other expenses net includes other significant items of income and expense which due to their non-operational nature or expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them are reported separately from operating segment results.
Other expenses net includes, but is not limited to, impairment charges, revaluation of previously held interests in business combinations and acquisitions, restructuring and closure costs.
Changes in mark to market valuations on investments held for trading net Primarily relates to movements on interests in other investments classified as held for trading and carried at fair value, with Glencores interest in Volcan Compania Minera S. A.
A. and Nyrstar N. V. accounting for the majority of the movement in 2013 and 2012.
Changes in mark to market valuation of certain coal forward contracts Represents movements in fair value of certain fixed price forward coal sales contracts relating to Prodeco Groups Prodeco future production, into which it plans to physically deliver.
Following the legal reacquisition of Prodeco in March 2010, from an accounting perspective, these forward sales contracts could not technically be classified as own use or as cash flow hedges, which would have deferred the income statement effect until performance of the underlying future sale transactions.
As at year end, all tonnes of such coal have been physically delivered 2012: 4.6 million tonnes remained.
Revaluation of previously held interest in newly acquired businesses net In May 2013, Glencore completed the acquisition of the additional 66% interest in Xstrata it did not previously own see note 25.
At the date of acquisition, the previously owned interest was revalued to its fair value based on the share price at 2 May 2013 the Acquisition Date as prescribed by IFRS 13 and as a result, a $1,160 million loss was recognised.
In March 2012, Glencore purchased an additional 31.8% interest in Optimum Coal Holdings Limited Optimum and in April 2012, acquired an additional 20% interest in Mutanda Group Mutanda.
At the date of the acquisitions, the previously owned interests were revalued to their fair value and as a result, a $20 million loss and $517 million gain, respectively, were recognised.
Viterra acquisition related expense income net 2013 expense of $36 million comprises a $47 million gain relating to final sales adjustments of a previous Viterra acquisition less $83 million of professional advisors fees and restructuring expenses.
2012 income includes the realised gain of $65 million on the settlement of CAD2.7 billion forward foreign currency purchase contracts entered into to partially hedge foreign currency price risk associated with the Viterra transaction see note 25 less $54 million of professional advisors and other expenses.
144 Xstrata acquisition related expenses Expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition of Xstrata see note 25, comprises $59 million of costs incurred with the required cancellation of the Nyrstar offtake agreement, $98 million of professional advisors fees related to the acquisition and $137 million of stamp duty and restructuring costs.
IMPAIRMENTS US$ million Notes 2013 2012 Xstrata acquisition goodwill impairment 7,480 Available for sale instruments 10 446 1,181 Non-current advances and loans 11 300 213 Property, plant and equipment 7 779 210 Non-current inventory and other 81 46 Total impairments 9,086 1,650 1 These items, if classified by function of expense would be recognised in cost of goods sold.
2 Impairments recognised during the year are allocated to Glencores operating segments as follows: Metals and minerals $8,922 million 2012: $1,337 million, Energy products $164 million 2012: $248 million and Agricultural products $Nil 2012: $65 million.
Xstrata acquisition goodwill impairment In accordance with IFRS 3, following a comprehensive process to identify and determine the fair value of all acquired assets and liabilities in connection with the Xstrata acquisition see note 25, Glencore has provisionally recognised goodwill of $12.5 billion of which $5.0 billion was allocated to the metals and coal marketing cash generating units CGUs and $7,480 million was provisionally allocated to the Xstrata mining operations CGUs.
The goodwill allocated to the metals and minerals and coal marketing businesses was based on the value of expected margin synergies to be realised by the Groups existing marketing operations as a result of increased product flows from Xstrata, while the residual balance of $7,480 million was allocated to the Xstrata mining operations.
IAS 36 Impairment of assets requires that CGUs containing goodwill be tested for impairment whenever there are indications that goodwill may be impaired.
As the assets and liabilities of the Xstrata mining operations were then recorded at fair value including reserves and resources and expected operational synergies following the extensive valuation process as at the Acquisition Date, there was an indicator that the goodwill allocated to these operations was impaired.
Accordingly, Glencore completed an impairment test of the Xstrata mining operations based on the results of the provisional purchase price allocation process see note 25 and determined that the allocated goodwill was impaired and therefore recorded an impairment charge at acquisition of $7,480 million.
The key circumstances that led to the impairment are: The IFRS 3 requirement to measure the consideration paid by reference to Glencores share price at the Acquisition Date and the significant time lag between pricing the acquisition in September 2012 and the Acquisition Date: and The negative broader macro-economic environment facing the extractive industry, particularly around the actual and perceived heightened risks associated with greenfield and large scale expansion projects during the first half of 2013.
The recoverable amount of the Xstrata mining operations was measured based on fair value less costs to sell determined in accordance with IFRS 13 and was primarily based on discounted cash flow techniques using, where possible, market-based forecasts and assumptions and discounted using operation specific discount rates ranging from 8 13%.
Available for sale instruments Glencore accounts for its interest in United Company Rusal plc UC Rusal as an available for sale investment at fair value with mark to market movements recognised in other comprehensive income OCI.
As a result of the continuing challenging macro-economic environment impacting the global aluminium market, in December 2012, it was determined that previously recognised negative fair value adjustments were of a prolonged nature and therefore reclassified from OCI to the consolidated statement of income.
As at 31 December 2013, UC Rusals share price was below the 31 December 2012 price and as required under IAS 39 such fair value movements were accounted for in the consolidated statement of income rather than OCI see note 10.
145 Notes to the financial statements 5.
IMPAIRMENTS continued Property, plant and equipment During the regular assessment of whether there is an indication of asset impairment or whether a previously recorded impairment may no longer be required as part of our regular portfolio review, the continuing low nickel price forecasts and suspension of a mine shaft expansion project resulted in impairment charges of $454 million and $137 million being recognised at our Murrin Murrin and Cobar copper operations metals and minerals segment respectively.
The balance of the impairment charges resulted primarily from an evaluation of below expectation exploration programmes none of which were individually material of $124 million and $64 million recognised in our Metals and minerals and Energy products segments respectively.
The recoverable amounts of the property, plant and equipment were measured based on fair value less costs to sell, determined by discounted cash flow techniques using, where possible, market forecasts and assumptions discounted using operation specific discount rates ranging from 7.5 12%.
In 2012, the continuing challenging European biodiesel margin environment, the change in legal status of certain of our operations, particularly in Bolivia, and evaluation of below expectation exploration programmes, resulted in impairment charges none of which were individually material of $110 million, $35 million and $65 million recognised in our Metals and minerals, Energy products and Agricultural products segments respectively.
INCOME TAXES Income taxes consist of the following: US$ million 2013 2012 Current income tax expense 737 295 Deferred income tax credit 483 371 Total tax expense credit 254 76 The effective Group tax rate is different from the statutory Swiss income tax rate applicable to the Company for the following reasons: US$ million 2013 2012 Loss Income before income taxes and attribution 7,044 1,076 Less: Share of income from associates and joint ventures 846 367 Parent Companys and subsidiaries loss income before income tax and attribution 7,890 709 Income tax credit expense calculated at the Swiss income tax rate 1,184 106 Tax effects of: Different tax rates from the standard Swiss income tax rate 605 233 Non-deductible Xstrata related revaluation and goodwill impairment charges 1,122 Tax exempt income, net of non-deductible expenses and other permanent differences 413 50 1 Tax implications of restructuring, including deductions losses triggered 544 Available tax losses not recognised, and other changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets 122 76 Other 2 3 Income tax expense credit 254 76 1 The 2012 credit amounting to $544 million resulted primarily from recognition of crystallised tax benefits resulting in losses carried forward, following an internal reorganisation of our existing ownership interest in Xstrata.
146 Deferred taxes as at 31 December 2013 and 2012 are attributable to the items detailed in the table below: 2012 1 US$ million Notes 2013 Restated 2 Deferred tax assets Tax losses carried forward 1,861 1,345 Mark to market valuations 76 27 Other 168 90 Total 2,105 1,462 Effect of amendments to IAS 19 23 49 Total Restated 2,105 1,511 2 Deferred tax liabilities Depreciation and amortisation 5,699 2,606 Mark to market valuations 11 29 Other 903 320 Total 6,613 2,955 1 Restatement 25 49 Total Restated 6,613 2,906 Deferred tax recognised in other comprehensive loss Deferred tax on cash flow hedges 48 Deferred tax on other reserves 88 Total 40 Effect of amendments to IAS 19 23 49 Total Restated 40 49 Total Deferred tax net 4,468 1,444 Reconciliation of deferred tax net 1 January 1,444 360 Recognised in income for the year 483 371 Recognised in other comprehensive loss 89 Disposal of business 25 40 7 Business combination 25 4,049 1,522 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 310 Other 103 60 31 December 4,468 1,444 1 Comprises effects of amendments to IAS 19 see note 23 as well as adjustments to the fair value calculations in relation to the acquisition of Viterra see note 25.
2 Asset and liability positions in the same category reflect the impact of tax assets and liabilities arising in local tax jurisdictions that cannot be offset against tax assets and liabilities arising in other tax jurisdictions.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward only to the extent that realisation of the related tax benefit is probable.
As at 31 December 2013, $2,520 million 2012: $1,816 million of deferred tax assets related to available loss carry forwards have been brought to account, of which $1,861 million 2012: $1,345 million are disclosed as deferred tax assets with the remaining balance being offset against deferred tax liabilities arising in the same respective entity.
$725 million 2012: $1,373 million of net deferred tax assets arise in entities that have been loss making for tax purposes in 2013 and or 2012.
In evaluating whether it is probable that taxable profits will be earned in future accounting periods, all available evidence was considered, including approved budgets, forecasts and business plans and, in certain cases, analysis of historical operating results.
These forecasts are consistent with those prepared and used internally for business planning and impairment testing purposes.
Following this evaluation, it was determined there would be sufficient taxable income generated to realise the benefit of the deferred tax assets.
147 Notes to the financial statements 6.
INCOME TAXES continued Available gross tax losses carried forward and deductible temporary differences, for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised in the consolidated financial statements are detailed below and will expire as follows: US$ million 2013 2012 1 year 200 114 2 years 215 165 3 years 70 253 Thereafter 1,449 1,786 Unlimited 1,778 590 Total 3,712 2,908 As at 31 December 2013, unremitted earnings of $43,407 million 2012: $19,952 million have been retained by subsidiaries and associates for reinvestment.
No provision is made for income taxes that would be payable upon the distribution of such earnings.
Plant and equipment includes expenditure for construction in progress of $12,236 million 2012: $2,294 million and a net book value of $412 million 2012: $281 million of obligations recognised under finance lease agreements.
Mineral and petroleum rights include expenditures for exploration and evaluation of $798 million 2012: $277 million and biological assets of $94 million 2012: $66 million.
Depreciation expenses included in cost of goods sold are $4,028 million 2012: $1,421 million and in selling and administrative expenses $21 million 2012: $17 million.
During 2013, $310 million 2012: $37 million of interest was capitalised, $231 million within property, plant and equipment and $79 million within assets held for sale.
With the exception of project specific borrowings, the rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation was 3.5% 2012: 4.0%.
149 Notes to the financial statements 8.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS Royalty and Future Licences, acquired Port allocation warehousing trademarks offtake US$ million Goodwill rights fees and software arrangements Total Cost: 1 January 2013 962 1,101 32 151 2,246 1 Business combination 12,510 1,893 271 156 14,830 1 Disposal of subsidiaries 43 43 Additions 59 85 144 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 6 473 3 470 Other movements 22 109 165 34 31 December 2013 13,478 2,499 32 326 406 16,741 Accumulated amortisation and impairment: 1 January 2013 16 11 12 39 2 Amortisation expense 25 8 44 46 123 3 Impairment 7,480 7,480 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 16 13 17 46 31 December 2013 7,480 57 19 69 63 7,688 Net carrying amount 31 December 2013 5,998 2,442 13 257 343 9,053 1 See note 25.
2 Recognised in cost of goods sold.
Future Licences, Royalty and warehousing Port allocation trademarks acquired offtake US$ million Goodwill rights fees and software arrangements Total Cost: 1 January 2012 133 32 49 214 1 Business combination 1,2511,182104 2,537 Additions 2133 54 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 102 102 31 December 2012 1,384 1,101 32 186 2,703 2 Restatement 422 35 457 31 December 2012 Restated 962 1,101 32 151 2,246 Accumulated amortisation and impairment: 1 January 2012 3 1 4 3 Amortisation expense 16811 35 31 December 2012 16 11 12 39 Net carrying amount 31 December 2012 1,384 1,085 21 174 2,664 2 Restatement 422 35 457 Net carrying amount 31 December 2012 Restated 962 1,085 21 139 2,207 1 See note 25.
2 Comprises adjustments to the fair value calculations in relation to the acquisition of Viterra see note 25.
3 Recognised in cost of goods sold.
150 Goodwill The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated to cash generating units CGUs, or groups of CGUs as follows: 2012 1 US$ million 2013 Restated Grain marketing business 829 829 Metals and minerals marketing businesses 3,326 Coal marketing business 1,674 Metals warehousing business 169 133 Total 5,998 962 1 Comprises adjustments to the fair value calculations in relation to the acquisition of Viterra see note 25.
Grain marketing business Goodwill of $829 million has been recognised as part of the acquisition of Viterra, see note 25.
The goodwill is primarily related to the Viterra grain marketing and merchandising business and is substantively attributable to synergies which are expected to arise in conjunction with the grain marketing divisions increased geographic coverage and scale of activities.
Metals and minerals and coal marketing businesses Goodwill of $12,480 million was provisionally recognised in connection with the acquisition of Xstrata see note 25 and allocated to the metals and minerals marketing CGU and coal marketing CGU and the Xstrata mining operations CGUs on a basis consistent with the expected benefits arising from the business combination.
The metals and minerals marketing and the coal marketing synergies were fair valued at $5.0 billion based on the annual synergies expected to accrue to the respective marketing departments as a result of increased volumes, blending opportunities and freight and logistics arbitrage opportunities.
The residual balance of the goodwill $7.5 billion was allocated to the acquired mining operations of Xstrata and subsequently impaired see note 5.
Metals warehousing business Goodwill of $169 million 2012: $133 million relates to the Pacorini metals warehousing business and is attributable to synergies which arise in conjunction with the metals marketing divisions expected increased activities.
During the year, Pacorini acquired a logistics operation and goodwill in respect of this acquisition was recognised which is also attributable to synergies which arise in conjunction with the metals marketing divisions expected increased activities.
Port allocation rights Port allocation rights represent contractual entitlements to export certain amounts of coal on an annual basis from Richard Bay Coal Terminal in South Africa and have been recognised as part of the acquisitions of Optimum, Umcebo and Xstrata.
The rights are being amortised on a straight line basis over the estimated economic life of the port of 40 years see note 25.
Licences, trademarks and software As part of the Xstrata business acquisition, intangibles related to internally developed technology and patents were recognised and are being amortised over the estimated economic life of the technology which ranges between 10 15 years.
Royalty and acquired offtake arrangements As part of the Xstrata business acquisition, the fair value of a royalty income stream related to output from the Antamina copper mine was recognised.
This amount is being amortised on the unit of production basis up to 2027, the expected mine life.
Acquired offtake arrangements represent contractual entitlements acquired from third parties to provide marketing services and receive certain products being produced from a mining or processing operation over a finite period of time.
These rights are being amortised on a straight line basis over the contractual term which currently ranges between 10 15 years.
151 Notes to the financial statements 9.
GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT TESTING For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill has been allocated to the CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination and which represent the level at which management will monitor and manage the goodwill as follows: 2012 1 US$ million 2013 Restated Grain marketing business 829 829 Metals and minerals marketing businesses 3,326 Coal marketing business 1,674 Metals warehousing business 169 133 Total 5,998 962 1 Comprises adjustments to the fair value calculations in relation to the acquisition of Viterra see note 25.
In assessing whether an impairment is required, the carrying value of the CGU is compared with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell FVLCS and its value in use VIU.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit on a pro-rata basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognised directly in the consolidated statement of income.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods.
Given the nature of each CGUs activities, information on its fair value is usually difficult to obtain unless negotiations with potential purchasers or similar transactions are taking place.
Consequently, the recoverable amount for each of the marketing CGUs is determined by reference to the FVLCS which utilises a price to earnings multiple approach based on the 2014 approved financial budget which includes factors such as marketing volumes handled and operating, interest and income tax charges, generally based on past experience.
The price to earnings multiple of 10 times is derived from observable market data for broadly comparable businesses: the recoverable amount of the metals warehousing business is determined by reference to its VIU which utilises pre-tax cash flow projections based on the approved financial budgets for 5 years which includes key assumptions, such as inventory levels, volumes and operating costs key assumptions are based on past experience and, where available, observable market data, discounted to present value at a rate of 10%.
The cash flows beyond the 5 year period have been extrapolated using a declining growth rate of 10% per annum: and Glencore believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the recoverable amount to fall below the carrying value of the CGU.
The determination of FVLCS for each of the marketing CGUs uses Level 3 valuation techniques in both years.
INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES, JOINT VENTURES AND OTHER INVESTMENTS A list of the principal operating, finance and industrial subsidiaries and associates and other investments is included in note 35.
Investments in associates and joint ventures 2012 1 US$ million Notes 2013 Restated 1 January 18,764 18,858 Loss gain on revaluation of previously held interest on acquisition 4 1,160 497 Transfer of previous equity accounted investments to subsidiary Xstrata 25 15,142 2 Transfer of previous equity accounted investments to subsidiary Other 212 1,274 3 Assumed in business combination 25 10,240 74 Additions 76 455 Disposals 40 11 Share of income from associates and joint ventures 846 367 Share of other comprehensive income from associates and joint ventures 26 221 Dividends received 551 461 Other movements 140 38 31 December 12,707 18,764 Of which: Investments in associates 9,226 18,764 Investments in joint ventures 3,481 1 Comprises adjustments to the fair value calculations in relation to the acquisition of Viterra see note 25.
2 In July 2013, Glencore completed the planned merger of Mutanda and Kansuki, previously an associate of the Group.
The transaction did not meet the definition of a business combination under IFRS 3 and therefore has been accounted for as an acquisition of assets.
3 Comprises primarily investments in Cerrejn Coal mine, Antamina Copper Zinc mine, Collahuasi Copper mine and Lonmin plc.
As at 31 December 2013, the fair value of listed associates and joint ventures, which have a carrying value of $1,487 million 2012: $17,103 million, using published price quotations was $1,212 million 2012: $17,876 million.
This predominantly comprises Century Aluminum Century and Lonmin plc Lonmin 2012: Xstrata.
The change in 2013 is primarily due to the acquisition of Xstrata see note 25.
The 2013 carrying value of the Groups investment in Century and Lonmin is $734 million and $604 million respectively.
The 2012 carrying value of the Groups investment in Xstrata was $16,215 million.
Following the recognition of Glencores share of impairments booked by its associates and joint ventures, Glencore completed a detailed assessment of the recoverable amount of investments where indicators of impairment were identified and concluded that the recoverable value supports the carrying value of these investments and that no further impairment is required.
153 Notes to the financial statements 10.
INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES, JOINT VENTURES AND OTHER INVESTMENTS continued Details of material associates and joint ventures Summarised financial information in respect of Glencores associates and joint ventures, reflecting 100% of the underlying associates and joint ventures relevant figures, is set out below.
Total Total material material Total material associates and US$ million Cerrejn Antamina associates Collahuasi joint ventures joint ventures 31 December 2013 Non-current assets 2,787 9,303 12,090 14,159 14,159 26,249 Current assets 793 1,419 2,212 1,334 1,334 3,546 Non-current liabilities 1,489 1,926 3,415 2,627 2,627 6,042 Current liabilities 273 565 838 640 640 1,478 The above amounts of assets and liabilities include the following: Cash and cash equivalents 198 224 422 92 92 514 1 Current financial liabilities 196 196 4 4 200 1 Non-current financial liabilities 100 100 19 19 119 Net assets 1,818 8,231 10,049 12,226 12,226 22,275 Glencores ownership interest 33.33% 33.75% 44.0% Acquisition fair value and other adjustments 2,176 609 2,785 1,898 1,898 887 Carrying value 2,782 3,387 6,169 3,481 3,481 9,650 1 Financial liabilities exclude trade, other payables and provisions.
Summarised profit and loss in respect of Glencores associates and joint ventures, reflecting 100% of the underlying associates and joint ventures relevant figures for the period post the acquisition of Xstrata until 31 December 2013, is set out below.
Total of Total of material material Total of material associates and US$ million Cerrejn Antamina associates Collahuasi joint ventures joint ventures 2013 Revenue 1,798 2,631 4,429 2,466 2,466 6,895 Income for the year 76 936 1,012 827 827 1,839 Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income 76 936 1,012 827 827 1,839 Dividends paid 253 670 923 470 470 1,393 The above profit for the year includes the following: Depreciation and amortisation 529 359 888 341 341 1,229 Interest income 1 1 1 Interest expense 12 7 19 6 6 25 Income tax expense 90 555 645 254 254 899 154 Total of material US$ million Xstrata plc associates 31 December 2012 Non-current assets 70,683 70,683 Current assets 12,431 12,431 Non-current liabilities 29,131 29,131 Current liabilities 7,192 7,192 The above amounts of assets and liabilities include the following: Cash and cash equivalents 1,983 1,983 Current financial liabilities 1,206 1,206 Non-current financial liabilities 24,388 24,388 Net assets 46,791 46,791 Glencores ownership interest 34.2% 34.2% Acquisition fair value and other adjustments 212 212 Carrying value 16,215 16,215 1 Financial liabilities exclude trade, other payables and provisions.
Total of material US$ million Xstrata plc associates 2012 Revenue 31,618 31,618 Income for the year 1,372 1,372 Other comprehensive income 29 29 Total comprehensive income 1,401 1,401 Dividends paid 1,218 1,218 1 In 2012 the Group did not have any material joint ventures.
155 Notes to the financial statements 10.
INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES, JOINT VENTURES AND OTHER INVESTMENTS continued Aggregate information of associates that are not individually material: US$ million 2013 2012 The Groups share of income 141 58 The Groups share of other comprehensive income loss 26 32 The Groups share of total comprehensive income 167 26 Aggregate carrying value of the Groups interests 3,057 2,549 Glencores share of total comprehensive income did not include joint ventures other than the material joint venture discussed above.
The amount of corporate guarantees in favour of joint ventures as at 31 December 2013 was $463 million 2012: $22 million.
Glencores share of joint ventures capital commitments amounts to $648 million 2012: $34 million.
Other investments US$ million 2013 2012 Available for sale United Company Rusal plc 394 840 394 840 Fair value through profit and loss Volcan Compania Minera S. A.
204 410 Nyrstar N. V. 78 Century Aluminum Company cash-settled equity swaps 95 80 Jurong Aromatics Corporation Pte Ltd 55 55 Other 175 126 529 749 Total 923 1,589 1 Disposed in 2013.
ADVANCES AND LOANS US$ million 2013 2012 Loans to associates 909 347 Rehabilitation trust fund 317 248 Other non-current receivables and loans 2,869 3,163 Total 4,095 3,758 1 Loans to associates generally bear interest at applicable floating market rates plus a premium.
Other non-current receivables and loans comprise the following: US$ million 2013 2012 Counterparty Russneft loan 984 2,080 Rosneft trade advance 500 1 Secured marketing related financing arrangements 995 749 Societe Nationale dElectricite SNEL power advances 138 50 Other 252 284 Total 2,869 3,163 1 Various marketing related financing facilities, generally secured against certain assets and or payable from the future sale of production of the counterparty.
The weighted average interest rate of the advances and loans is 10% and on average are to be repaid over a three-year period.
In December 2013, an impairment charge of $300 million was recognised following nonperformance of contractual terms and rescheduling of the timing of product supply and a recoverable value provision was recorded in respect of other advances and loans see note 5.
Russneft loans 2013 In December 2013, OAO Russneft Russneft refinanced part of its debt and repaid Glencore $1.0 billion.
The repayment followed earlier repayments of $88 million and $135 million respectively, amounting to a total of $1,223 million received in 2013.
Following the December repayment, Glencore and Russneft agreed to amend the terms of the outstanding loan balance, requiring Glencore to convert a minimum of $900 million of the outstanding debt into an equity stake in Russneft during 2014, subject to finalization of due diligence and valuation.
Until conversion, interest and repayment terms remain materially unchanged.
Additionally, the outstanding loan balance and or any equity resulting from the conversion to shares in Russneft has been pledged as a guarantee for a $1 billion loan between Russneft and a third party bank.
2012 In November 2012, as part of a comprehensive agreement between Russneft, Glencore and Russnefts other major creditor, Sberbank, Glencore agreed to amend the terms of its $2,080 million, 9% per annum loan.
The revised terms lowered the interest rate to 7.75% interest per annum and extended the expected maturity of the loan from 2020 to 2024.
In exchange for this amendment, Glencore would receive additional annual payments of $50 million until substantial repayments of the loan would commence, once Russnefts debt reduces to certain thresholds and or existing debt is refinanced which occurred in 2013 as discussed above.
The loan is accounted for at amortised cost using the effective rate method with an effective interest rate of 8.4%.
The revision of the terms in November 2012 required that the carrying amount of the loan was required to be recalculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows under the revised terms using the loans original effective interest rate.
In estimating the expected cash flows to be received over the life of the loan, a comprehensive cash flow forecast was prepared utilising Russnefts budget and strategic plan and an economic analysis of Russnefts oil fields prepared by an independent petroleum engineering firm.
The difference between the recalculated carrying value of $2,093 million and the pre-amendment carrying value of $2,306 million resulted in an income statement charge of $213 million see note 5.
Rosneft trade advance In March 2013, Glencore signed a long term crude and oil products supply contract with Russian oil producer OJSC Neftyanaya Companiya Rosneft Rosneft while simultaneously participating with $500 million in a large financing facility to Rosneft.
The pre-payment is to be repaid through future deliveries of oil over 3 years starting March 2015.
SNEL power advances In early 2012, a joint agreement with Socit Nationale dlectricit SNEL, the Democratic Republic of the Congos DRC national electricity utility, was signed whereby Glencores operations will contribute $284 million to a major electricity infrastructure refurbishment programme, including transmission and distribution systems.
This is expected to facilitate a progressive increase in power availability to 450 megawatts by the end of 2015.
Funding commenced in the second quarter of 2012 and will continue until the end of 2015.
The loans will be repaid via discounts on future electricity purchases by Katanga and Mutanda upon completion of the refurbishment programme.
157 Notes to the financial statements 12.
INVENTORIES 2012 1 US$ million 2013 Restated Production inventories 6,108 3,153 Marketing inventories 16,645 17,527 Total 22,753 20,680 1 Comprises adjustments to the fair value calculations in relation to the acquisition of Viterra see note 25.
Production inventories consist of materials, spare parts and work in process.
Marketing inventories are saleable commodities held primarily by the marketing entities as well as finished goods and certain other readily saleable materials held by the industrial assets.
Marketing inventories of $12,997 million 2012: $16,027 million are carried at fair value less costs to sell.
Fair value of inventories is a Level 2 fair value measurement see note 28 valued using observable market prices obtained from exchanges, traded reference indices or market survey services adjusted for relevant location and quality differentials.
There are no significant unobservable inputs in the fair value measurement of marketing inventories.
Glencore has a number of dedicated financing facilities, which finance a portion of its marketing inventories.
In each case, the inventory has not been derecognised as the Group retains the principal risks and rewards of ownership.
The proceeds received are recognised as current borrowings see note 20.
As at 31 December 2013, the total amount of inventory secured under such facilities was $2,246 million 2012: $2,946 million.
The proceeds received and recognised as current borrowings were $1,829 million 2012: $2,248 million.
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE 2012 US$ million 2013 Restated Trade receivables 18,029 18,406 Trade advances and deposits 3,516 3,270 Associated companies 452 1,031 Other receivables 2,539 2,195 Total 24,536 24,902 1 Comprises adjustments to the fair value calculations in relation to the acquisition of Viterra see note 25.
2 Collectively referred to as receivables presented net of allowance for doubtful debts.
The average credit period on sales of goods is 29 days 2012: 29 days.
As at 31 December 2013, 8% 2012: 8% of receivables were between 1 to 60 days overdue, and 5% 2012: 5% were greater than 60 days overdue.
Such receivables, although contractually past their due dates, are not considered impaired as there has not been a significant change in credit quality of the relevant counterparty, and the amounts are still considered recoverable taking into account customary payment patterns and in many cases, offsetting accounts payable balances.
The movement in allowance for doubtful accounts is detailed in the table below: US$ million 2013 2012 1 January 212 129 Released during the year 46 7 Charged during the year 125 112 Utilised during the year 39 22 31 December 252 212 Glencore has a number of dedicated financing facilities, which finance a portion of its receivables.
In each case, the receivables have not been derecognised, as the Group retains the principal risks and rewards of ownership.
As at 31 December 2013, the total amount of trade receivables secured was $4,034 million 2012: $4,398 million and proceeds received and classified as current borrowings amounted to $3,200 million 2012: $3,146 million.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS US$ million 2013 2012 Bank and cash on hand 2,341 2,496 Deposits and treasury bills 508 286 Total 2,849 2,782 As at 31 December 2013, $18 million 2012: $4 million was restricted.
As at 31 December 2012, $47 million was placed in escrow for the acquisition of Rosh Pinah see note 25.
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES HELD FOR SALE 2013 In accordance with the Merger Remedy Commitments made to the Ministry of Commerce of the Peoples Republic of China MOFCOM for the Xstrata acquisition, Glencore has commenced a process to sell its entire interest in the Las Bambas copper mine project in Peru.
As a result, assets of $3,616 million and liabilities of $314 million acquired in the Xstrata acquisition see note 25 have been classified as held for sale within the metals and minerals segment.
Subsequent to the acquisition date further capital expenditure has been incurred and liabilities settled as they fell due, such that the assets held for sale increased to $4,886 million and liabilities held for sale decreased to $276 million.
2012 As part of Glencores acquisition of Viterra, Glencore entered into agreements with Agrium Inc Agrium and Richardson International Limited Richardson which provided for the back-to-back sale of certain operations of Viterra.
Upon acquisition of Viterra, in December 2012, Agrium and Richardson advanced the agreed consideration for these operations amounting to CAD1,775 million $1,781 million and CAD796 million $799 million respectively the Asset Acquirer Loans.
Following these agreed disposals, assets of $2,712 million and liabilities of $416 million see note 25 as at 31 December 2012 have been classified as held for sale within the agricultural products segment.
The sales of these businesses to Agrium and Richardson were completed during 2013.
159 Notes to the financial statements 16.
SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES Number of shares Share capital Share premium thousand US$ million US$ million Authorised: 31 December 2013 and 2012 Ordinary shares with a par value of $0.01 each 50,000,000 Issued and fully paid up: 1 January 2012 Ordinary shares 6,922,714 69 26,797 11 October 2012 Ordinary shares issued on acquisition of an 18.91% interest in Kazzinc 176,742 2 957 Dividends paid see note 18 1,066 31 December 2012 Ordinary shares 7,099,456 71 26,688 2 May 2013 Ordinary shares issued on acquisition of Xstrata 6,163,949 62 30,073 27 December 2013 Ordinary shares issued to satisfy employee share awards see note 19 15,000 78 Dividends paid 2,062 31 December 2013 Ordinary shares 13,278,405 133 54,777 Ordinary shares issued on acquisition of Xstrata On 2 May 2013, Glencore completed its acquisition of the remaining 66% of the issued and outstanding equity of Xstrata see note 25 that the Group did not previously own, through the issuance of 6,163,949,435 new ordinary shares of the Company, of which 212,743,594 shares were issued to the Orbis Trust to satisfy the potential future settlement of certain stock and option awards held by Xstrata employees.
Ordinary shares issued on acquisition of an 18.91% interest in Kazzinc In October 2012, Glencore completed the acquisition of an additional 18.91% interest in Kazzinc from Verny Investments, for a cash consideration of $400 million and the issue of 176,742,520 new ordinary shares of the Company closing transaction date value of $959 million, thereby increasing its ultimate ownership in Kazzinc to 69.61%.
Acquiring an additional interest in a subsidiary is considered to be a transaction between owners rather than an acquisition of a business.
Therefore, this was accounted for as an equity transaction with the resulting difference of $506 million between the change in the Kazzinc non-controlling interest and the consideration paid charged to equity as a reserve.
Number of shares Share premium thousand US$ million Own shares: 1 January 2013 Own shares assumed on acquisition of Xstrata 212,744 1,041 Own shares purchased during the year 3,087 13 Own shares disposed during the year 59,041 287 31 December 2013 156,790 767 Own shares Own shares comprise shares of Glencore Xstrata plc held by Orbis Trust the Trust to satisfy the potential future settlement of the Groups employee stock plans, primarily assumed as part of the Xstrata acquisition see note 19.
The Trust also coordinates the funding and manages the delivery of ordinary shares and free share awards under certain of Glencores share plans.
The shares are acquired by either stock market purchases or share issues from the Company.
The Trustee is permitted to sell the shares and may hold up to 5% of the issued share capital of the Company at any one time.
As at 31 December 2013, 156,789,593 shares, equivalent to 1.2% of the issued share capital were held at a cost of $767 million and market value of $813 million.
The Trust has waived the right to receive dividends from the shares that it holds.
Costs relating to the administration of the Trust are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
160 Other reserves Net ownership Translation Equity portion of Cash flow hedge Net unrealised changes in US$ million adjustment Convertible bonds reserve gain loss subsidiaries Other reserves Total 1 January 2012 52 89 274 1,181 232 10 1,640 Exchange loss on translation of foreign operations 116 116 Loss on cash flow hedges, net of tax 93 93 Cash flow hedges transferred to the statement of income, net of tax 297 297 Change in ownership interest in subsidiaries 474 474 Loss on available for sale financial instruments transferred to the statement of income, net of tax 1,181 1,181 Effect of foreign currency differences transferred to the statement of income 23 23 31 December 2012 191 89 70 706 10 868 1 January 2013 191 89 70 706 10 868 Exchange loss on translation of foreign operations 1,126 1,126 Loss on cash flow hedges, net of tax 287 287 Cash flow hedges transferred to the statement of income, net of tax 1 1 Change in ownership interest in subsidiaries 138 138 31 December 2013 1,317 89 356 844 10 2,418 17.
EARNINGS PER SHARE US$ million Notes 2013 2012 Loss profit attributable to equity holders for basic earnings per share 7,402 1,004 Interest in respect of Convertible bonds Loss profit attributable to equity holders for diluted earnings per share 7,402 1,004 Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share thousand 11,093,184 6,961,936 Effect of dilution: Equity-settled share-based payments thousand 19 26,847 Convertible bonds thousand 20 Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share thousand 11,093,184 6,988,783 Basic loss earnings per share US$ 0.67 0.14 Diluted loss earnings per share US$ 0.67 0.14 1 In 2012 and 2013, the convertible bonds have been anti-dilutive and therefore have been excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation.
161 Notes to the financial statements 17.
EARNINGS PER SHARE continued Headline earnings is a Johannesburg Stock Exchange JSE Limited defined performance measure.
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share, based on headline earnings as determined by the requirements of the Circular 2 2013 as issued by the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants SAICA, is reconciled using the following data: Headline earnings: US$ million Notes 2013 2012 Loss profit attributable to equity holders for basic earnings per share 7,402 1,004 Loss profit on acquisitions no tax and non-controlling interest impact 10 1,160 497 Net loss on disposals no non-controlling interest impact 25 135 Net loss on disposals tax 6 34 Impairments 5 9,086 1,650 Impairments non-controlling interest 17 43 Impairments tax 245 85 Headline earnings for the year 2,601 2,130 Headline earnings per share US$ 0.23 0.30 Diluted headline earnings per share US$ 0.23 0.30 18.
DIVIDENDS US$ million 2013 2012 Paid during the year: Final dividend for 2012 $0.1035 per ordinary share 2011: $0.10 per ordinary share 1,355 692 Interim dividend for 2013 $0.054 per ordinary share 2012: $0.054 per ordinary share 707 374 Total 2,062 1,066 The proposed final dividend of $11.1 cents per ordinary share amounting to $1,457 million, excluding any distribution on own shares, is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
Dividends declared in respect of the year ended 31 December 2013 will be paid on 30 May 2014.
The 2013 interim dividend was paid on 12 September 2013.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS Number of awards Number of awards Number of awards Fair value at grant outstanding outstanding Expense recognised Expense recognised granted date 2013 2012 2013 2012 thousand US$ million thousand thousand US$ million US$ million Phantom Equity Awards 2011 Series 24,025 206 20,142 109 Deferred Bonus Plan 2012 Series 3,442 20 1,680 3,442 20 2013 Series 4,958 24 4,958 24 Performance Share Plan 2012 Series 3,262 18 2,235 3,262 10 2 2013 Series 5,295 29 5,295 3 Total 14,168 26,846 37 131 Phantom Equity Awards In April and May 2011 in connection with its initial public offering, Glencore issued phantom equity awards to certain employees in lieu of interests in Glencores existing equity ownership schemes.
At grant date, each phantom equity award is equivalent to one ordinary share of Glencore.
The phantom equity awards vested on or before 31 December 2013, subject to the continued employment of the award holder.
Phantom equity awards may be satisfied, at Glencores option, in shares by the issue of new ordinary shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market or in cash with a value equal to the market value of the award at vesting, including dividends paid between Listing and vesting.
As at 31 December 2013, awards have vested and been settled.
162 Deferred Bonus Plan Under the Glencore Deferred Bonus Plan DBP, the payment of a portion of a participants annual bonus is deferred for a period of one to two years as an award of either ordinary shares a Bonus Share Award or cash a Bonus Cash Award.
The awards are vested at grant date with no further service conditions however they are subject to forfeiture for malus events.
The Bonus Share Awards may be satisfied, at Glencores option, in shares by the issue of new ordinary shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market or in cash, with a value equal to the market value of the award at settling, including dividends paid between award and settling.
Glencore currently intends to settle these awards in shares.
The associated expense is recorded in the statement of income as part of the regular expense for performance bonuses.
Performance share plan Under the Glencore Performance Share Plan PSP, participants are awarded PSP awards which vest in annual tranches over a specified period, subject to continued employment and forfeiture for malus events.
At grant date, each PSP award is equivalent to one ordinary share of Glencore.
The awards vest in three equal tranches on 30 June of the years following the year of grant.
The fair value of the awards is determined by reference to the market price of Glencores ordinary shares at grant date.
The PSP awards may be satisfied, at Glencores option, in shares by the issue of new ordinary shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market or in cash, with a value equal to the market value of the award at vesting, including dividends paid between award and vesting.
Share based awards assumed upon acquisition of Xstrata Total options outstanding Weighted average thousands exercise price GBP 1 January 2013 Assumed in business combination 212,744 2.83 Forfeited 3,807 3.76 Exercised 53,776 0.13 31 December 2013 155,161 1 The weighted average share price at date of exercise of the share based awards was GBP3.34.
The completion of the acquisition of Xstrata by Glencore triggered the change in control vesting criteria for all options and free shares of the former Xstrata award plans, comprising a total of 212,743,594 underlying shares, which, in accordance with the acquisition agreement, were replaced with equivalent Glencore instruments.
These instruments had a fair value of $383 million and were included in the consideration paid for the acquisition see note 25.
The options were valued at a weighted average of $1.53 per option determined using a Black-Scholes option pricing model using the following assumptions on a weighted average basis: share price of $4.89, exercise price of $5.72, option life of 6.9 years, dividend yield of 4%, risk free interest rate of 1.65% and an expected volatility of 32% based on the historical volatility of Glencore and Xstrata shares prior to the acquisition.
Free share units were valued at $4.89 per unit based on Glencores share price at the date of acquisition.
As at December 31, 2013, a total of 155,161,370 options were outstanding and exercisable, having a range of exercise prices from zero to GBP3.914 and a weighted average exercise price of GBP3.7412.
These outstanding awards have expiry dates ranging from March 2014 to March 2022 and a weighted average contractual life of 6.2 years.
The awards may be satisfied at Glencores option, by the issue of new ordinary shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market.
Glencore currently intends to settle these awards by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury.
163 Notes to the financial statements 20.
BORROWINGS US$ million Notes 2013 2012 Non-current borrowings Convertible bonds 2 172 Capital market notes 30,900 9,418 Ordinary profit participation certificates 110 332 Committed syndicated revolving credit facilities 5,702 5,881 Finance lease obligations 30 344 233 Other bank loans 1,668 992 Total non-current borrowings 38,724 19,028 Current borrowings Committed secured inventory receivables facilities 12 13 1,353 3,702 Uncommitted secured inventory receivables facilities 12 13 3,676 1,692 Other committed secured facilities 590 Convertible bonds 2,236 U. S. commercial paper 1,645 726 Xstrata secured bank loans 2,696 Capital market notes 1,750 1,061 Viterra acquisition financing facility 1,503 Ordinary profit participation certificates 223 418 Finance lease obligations 30 49 48 1 Other bank loans 4,939 4,652 Total current borrowings 16,461 16,498 1 Comprises various uncommitted bilateral bank credit facilities and other financings.
Xstrata secured bank loans In April 2013, the Xstrata secured bank loans were repaid.
Ordinary profit participation certificates Profit participation certificates bear interest at 6 month U. S. $ LIBOR, are repayable over 5 years with final payments due in 2016 and in the event of certain triggering events, which include any breach of a financial covenant, would be subordinated to unsecured lenders.
Committed syndicated revolving credit facility In June 2013 Glencore signed new committed revolving credit facilities totalling $17,340 million, which extended and increased previous revolving credit facilities.
The facilities comprise a $5,920 million 12 month revolving credit facility with a borrowers 12 month term-out option and a 12 month extension option, a $7,070 million three year facility with two 12 month extension options and a $4,350 million five year facility.
Funds drawn under the facilities bear interest at U. S. $ LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 80 to 90 basis points per annum.
U. S. commercial paper Glencore has in place a standalone U. S. commercial paper programme for $4,000 million rated A2 and P2 respectively by S&Ps and Moodys rating agencies.
The notes issued under this programme carry interest at floating market rates and mature not more than 397 days from the date of issue.
Funds drawn under the facilities bear interest at U. S. $ LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 35 to 70 basis points per annum.
Convertible bonds $2,300 million 5% coupon convertible bonds due December 2014.
The bonds are convertible at the option of the investors into 430,924,474 ordinary shares of Glencore Xstrata plc.
The bonds consist of a liability component and an equity component.
The fair values of the liability component $2,211 million and the equity component $89 million were determined, using the residual method, at issuance of the bonds.
The liability component is measured at amortised cost at an effective interest rate of 5.90% per annum.
165 Notes to the financial statements 20.
BORROWINGS continued Bond issuance in 2013 US$ bonds In May 2013, Glencore issued in five tranches US$5 billion of interest bearing notes as follows: 3 year $1,000 million 1.7% fixed coupon bonds: 5 year $1,500 million 2.5% fixed coupon bonds: 10 year $1,500 million 4.125% fixed coupon bonds: 3 year $500 million LIBOR plus 1.16% coupon notes: and 5 year $500 million LIBOR plus 1.36% coupon notes.
Euro bonds In September 2013, Glencore issued EUR750 million 3.375% interest bearing bonds due September 2020.
In October 2013, Glencore issued EUR400 million 3.7% interest bearing bonds due October 2023.
Swiss Franc bonds In October 2013, Glencore issued CHF175 million 2.125% interest bearing bonds due December 2019.
Committed secured facilities US$ million Maturity Borrowing base Interest 2013 2012 U. S. $ LIBOR Syndicated metals inventory receivables facility Oct 2013 2,220 120 bps 2,220 U. S. $ LIBOR Syndicated agricultural products inventory receivables facility Nov 2013 300 130 bps 232 U.
S $ LIBOR Oil receivables facility May Aug 2014 1,250 120 bps 1,250 1,250 U. S. $ LIBOR 1 Secured facilities on various equity stakes July 2015 750 80 bps 540 U. S. $ LIBOR Equipment financing April 2016 150 2.25% margin 50 U. S. $ JPY LIBOR Metals receivables facilities Jan 2014 197 80 200 bps 103 Total 4,867 1,943 3,702 1 As at 31 December 2013, shares representing $551 million 2012: $Nil of the carrying value of Glencores investment in Rusal and Lonmin were pledged as security.
DEFERRED INCOME Unfavourable US$ million Notes contracts Prepayment Total 1 January 2012 182 182 Assumed in business combination 25 688 688 Utilised in the year 72 19 91 Effect of foreign currency exchange difference 62 62 31 December 2012 554 163 717 1 January 2013 554 163 717 Assumed in business combination 25 1,039 7 1,046 Utilised in the year 156 8 164 Effect of foreign currency exchange difference 177 177 31 December 2013 1,260 162 1,422 1 Includes the current portion of $121 million 2012: $92 million in respect of the unfavourable contracts and $24 million 2012: $24 million in respect of the prepayments.
Unfavourable contracts Upon acquisition of Xstrata see note 25, Glencore recognised a liability of $1,039 million related to various assumed contractual agreements to deliver tonnes of coal and zinc concentrates over periods ending between 2017 and 2045 at fixed prices lower than the prevailing market prices.
Upon acquisition of Optimum in March 2012 see note 25, Glencore recognised a liability of $688 million related to an assumed contractual agreement to deliver 44 million tonnes of coal over a period ending 31 December 2018 at fixed prices lower than the prevailing market price for coal of equivalent quality.
These amounts are released to revenue as the underlying commodities are delivered to the buyers over the life of the contracts at rates consistent with the implied forward price curves of coal and zinc concentrate at the time of the acquisitions.
Prepayment During 2006, Glencore entered into an agreement to deliver, dependant on mine production, up to 4.75 million ounces per year of silver, a by-product from its mining operations, for a period of 15 years at a fixed price for which Glencore received an upfront payment of $285 million.
The outstanding balance represents the remaining portion of the upfront payment.
The upfront payment is released to revenue at a rate consistent with the implied forward price curve at the time of the transaction and the actual quantities delivered.
As at 31 December 2013, 19.3 million ounces 2012: 17.9 million ounces have been delivered.
167 Notes to the financial statements 22.
PROVISIONS Post retirement benefits Employee Rehabilitation Onerous US$ million Notes Note 23 entitlements costs contracts Other Total 1 January 2012 61 116 574 4 296 1,051 Effect of amendments to IAS 19 23 164 164 1 January 2012 Restated 225 116 574 4 296 1,215 Provision utilised in the year 1 2 41 4 140 188 Accretion in the year 33 33 Assumed in business combination 25 19 19 325 49 412 Additional provision in the year 14 14 83 170 281 Effect of foreign currency exchange difference 23 23 Effect of amendments to IAS 19 23 12 12 Restatement 2515 25 40 31 December 2012 Restated 284 147 951 400 1,782 Current 69 69 Non-current 284147951 331 1,713 1 January 2013 284 147 951 400 1,782 Provision utilised in the year 528 108 116 94 286 1,132 Accretion in the year 2 37 14 53 Assumed in business combination 25 1,271 266 3,062 1,937 1,005 7,541 Additional provision in the year 60 156 3 57 276 Effect of foreign currency exchange difference 47 4 130 8 173 31 December 2013 980 363 3,960 1,860 1,184 8,347 Current 66 198 264 Non-current 980 363 3,960 1,794 986 8,083 1 Other comprises provisions for possible demurrage, mine concession, tax and construction related claims.
Employee entitlements The employee entitlement provision represents the value of governed employee entitlements due to employees upon their termination of employment.
The associated expenditure will occur in a pattern consistent with when employees choose to exercise their entitlements.
Rehabilitation costs Rehabilitation provision represents the accrued cost required to provide adequate restoration and rehabilitation upon the completion of production activities.
These amounts will be settled when rehabilitation is undertaken, generally at the end of a projects life, which ranges from two to in excess of 50 years with the majority of the costs expected to be incurred in the final years of the underlying mining operations.
Onerous contracts Upon acquisition of Xstrata see note 25, Glencore recognised a liability of $1,937 million related to assumed contractual take or pay commitments for securing coal logistics capacity at fixed prices and quantities higher than the acquisition date forecasted usage and prevailing market price.
The provision will be released to costs of goods sold as the underlying commitments are incurred.
PERSONNEL COSTS AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Total personnel costs, which include salaries, wages, social security, other personnel costs and share-based payments, incurred for the years ended 31 December 2013 and 2012, were $5,012 million and $2,013 million, respectively.
Personnel costs related to consolidated industrial subsidiaries of $4,157 million 2012: $1,368 million are included in cost of goods sold.
Other personnel costs, including the deferred bonus and performance share plans, are included in selling and administrative expenses and the phantom equity awards are included in other expense.
The Company and certain subsidiaries sponsor various pension schemes in accordance with local regulations and practices.
Eligibility for participation in the various plans is either based on completion of a specified period of continuous service, or date of hire.
The plans provide for certain employee and employer contributions, ranging from 5% to 16% of annual salaries, depending on the employees years of service.
Among these schemes are defined contribution plans as well as defined benefit plans.
Defined contribution plans Glencores contributions under these plans amounted to $145 million in 2013 2012: $28 million.
Defined benefit plans The Company operates defined benefit plans in various countries, the main locations being Canada, Switzerland, UK and the US.
Approximately 80% of the present value of obligations accrued to date relates to the defined benefit plans in Canada, which are pension plans that provide benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life.
Glencore also operates post-employment medical benefit plans, principally in Canada, which provide coverage for prescription drugs, medical, dental, hospital and life insurance to eligible retirees.
The majority of benefit payments are from trustee-administered funds: however, there are also a number of unfunded plans where Glencore meets the benefit payments as they come due.
Plan assets held in trusts are governed by local regulations and practices in each country.
Responsibility for governance of the plans overseeing all aspects of the plans including investment decisions and contribution schedules lies with Glencore.
Glencore has set up committees to assist in the management of the plans and has also appointed experienced, independent professional experts such as investment managers, actuaries, custodians, and trustees.
On 1 January 2013, Glencore applied the amendments to IAS 19, retrospectively from 1 January 2012.
The amendments require all actuarial gains and losses to be recognised immediately in other comprehensive income and the expected return on plan assets recognised in the consolidated statement of income to be calculated based on the rate used to discount the defined benefit obligations.
As a result, Glencore recognised $164 million of unrecognised actuarial losses as at 1 January 2012, increasing the post-retirement benefits provision with a corresponding adjustment to shareholders equity and an associated deferred tax impact.
In 2012, the impact of these restatements is an additional income of $20 million before tax $14 million after tax, offset by a corresponding adjustment of the actuarial losses recognised in comprehensive income.
The adoption had an immaterial impact on the statement of cash flows and basic and diluted earnings per share.
Impact on consolidated statement of financial position due to change of IAS 19: Post-retirement Deferred tax Retained 1 US$ million benefit liability earnings Balance as reported at 1 January 2012 61 1,399 4,039 Effect of amendments to IAS 19 164 47 117 Restated balance at 1 January 2012 225 1,352 3,922 Balance as reported at 31 December 2012 93 2,955 5,375 Effect of amendments to IAS 19 176 49 127 2 Restatement 15 Restated balance at 31 December 2012 284 2,906 5,248 1 See note 22.
169 Notes to the financial statements 23.
PERSONNEL COSTS AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued The movement in the defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets of pension plans over the year is as follows: Present value of defined benefit Fair value of Post retirement US$ million Note obligation plan assets benefits 1 January 2013 Restated 631 347 284 Current service cost 75 75 Past service cost plan amendments 1 1 Past service cost curtailment 4 4 Interest expense income 142 101 41 Total expense income recognised in consolidated statement of income 212 101 111 Gain on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense net 100 100 Loss from change in demographic assumptions 20 20 Gain from change in financial assumptions 441 441 Loss from actuarial experience 10 10 Change in asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in interest expenses 48 48 Actuarial gains recognised in consolidated statement of comprehensive income 363 100 463 Employer contributions 176 176 Employee contributions 2 2 Benefits paid directly by the company 26 26 Benefits paid from plan assets 176 176 Net cash outflow inflow 200 24 176 Assumed in business combinations 22 4,562 3,291 1,271 Exchange differences 199 152 47 Other 4,363 3,139 1,224 31 December 2013 4,643 3,663 980 170 Present value of defined benefit Fair value of plan Post retirement US$ million Note obligation assets benefits 1 January 2012 Restated 509 284 225 Current service cost 24 24 Past service cost plan amendments 1 1 Settlement 7 7 Interest expense income 21 12 9 Total expense income recognised in consolidated statement of income 37 5 32 Gain on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense 20 20 Loss from change in demographic assumptions 31 31 Loss from actuarial experience 11 11 Change in asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in interest expenses 3 3 Actuarial losses gains recognised in consolidated statement of comprehensive income 45 20 25 Employer contributions 38 38 Employee contributions 1 1 Benefits paid from plan assets 13 13 Net cash outflow 12 26 38 Assumed in business combinations 22 34 34 Exchange differences 18 12 6 Other 52 12 40 31 December 2012 Restated 631 347 284 1 Comprises adjustments to the fair value calculations in relation to the acquisition of Viterra see note 25.
The Group expects to make a contribution of $228 million 2012: $38 million to the defined benefit plans during the next financial year.
The present value of defined benefit obligations accrued to date in Canada represents the majority for the Company.
The breakdown below provides details of the Canadian plans for both the balance sheet and the weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation as at 31 December 2013.
The defined benefit obligation of any other of the Groups defined benefit plans as at 31 December 2013 does not exceed $189 million.
US$ million Canada Other Total Present value of defined benefit obligation 3,749 894 4,643 of which: amounts owing to active members 1,028 500 1,528 of which: amounts owing to not active members 100 186 286 of which: amounts owing to pensioners 2,621 208 2,829 Fair value of plan assets 3,034 629 3,663 Net defined benefit liability at 31 December 2013 715 265 980 Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligation years 12 18 13 The actual return on plan assets amounted to a gain of $50 million 2012: gain of $40 million.
171 Notes to the financial statements 23.
PERSONNEL COSTS AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued The plan assets consist of the following: US$ million 2013 2012 Securities quoted in an active market Cash and short-term investments 91 4 Fixed income 1,900 161 Equities 1,496 132 Other 176 50 Total 3,663 347 1 Includes securities in non-active markets in the amount of $50 million 2012: $21 million.
The fair value of plan assets includes no amounts relating to any of Glencores own financial instruments or any of the property occupied by or other assets used by Glencore.
For many of the plans, representing a large portion of the global plan assets, asset-liability matching strategies are in place.
Here the fixed-income assets are being invested broadly in alignment with the duration of the plan liabilities, and the proportion allocated to fixed-income assets is raised when the plan funding level increases.
Through its defined benefit plans, Glencore is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: Asset volatility: The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields: if plan assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit.
The funded plans hold a significant proportion of equities, which are expected to outperform bonds in the long term while contributing volatility and risk in the short-term.
Glencore believes that due to the long-term nature of the plan liabilities, a level of continuing equity investment is an appropriate element of Glencores long-term strategy to manage the plans efficiently.
Change in bond yields: A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans bond holdings.
Inflation risk: Some of the plans benefit obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities, although, in most cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect the plan against extreme inflation.
Life expectancy: The majority of the plans obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the plans liability.
Salary increases: Some of the plans benefit obligations related to active members are linked to their salaries.
Higher salary increases will therefore tend to lead to higher plan liabilities.
The principal weighted-average actuarial assumptions used were as follows: 2013 2012 Discount rate 4.6% 3.6% Future salary increases 3.1% 3.0% Future pension increases 0.4% 1.0% Mortality assumptions are based on the latest available standard mortality tables for the individual countries concerned.
As at 31 December 2013, these tables imply expected future lifetimes, in years, for employees aged 65, 16 to 24 years for males 2012: 18 to 24 and 20 to 26 years for females 2012: 20 to 25.
The assumptions for each country are reviewed each year and are adjusted where necessary to reflect changes in fund experience and actuarial recommendations.
172 The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in principal assumptions as at 31 December 2013 is set out below.
The effects on each plan of a change in an assumption are weighted proportionately to the total plan obligations to determine the total impact for each assumption presented.
Increase decrease Increase decrease Increase decrease in pension obligation in pension obligation in pension obligation US$ million Canada Other Total Discount rate Increase by 100 basis points 396 138 534 Decrease by 100 basis points 457 179 636 Rate of future salary increase Increase by 100 basis points 20 43 63 Decrease by 100 basis points 19 38 57 Rate of future pension benefit increase Increase by 100 basis points 751 58 Decrease by 100 basis points 6 39 45 Life expectancy Increase in longevity by 1 year 98 14 112 24.
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE 2012 1 US$ million 2013 Restated Trade payables 21,815 19,922 Trade advances from buyers 640 546 Associated companies 648 1,552 Other payables and accrued liabilities 2,938 1,513 Total 26,041 23,533 1 Comprises adjustments to the fair value calculations in relation to the acquisition of Viterra see note 25.
173 Notes to the financial statements 25.
ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARIES 2013 Acquisitions In 2013 Glencore acquired controlling interests in Xstrata and other immaterial entities.
The net cash used in the acquisition of subsidiaries and the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition are detailed below: Xstrata Fair value provisional adjustments fair values as to the Total reported at provisional Xstrata Other Total US$ million 30 June 2013 allocation fair values fair values fair values Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 44,030 2,649 41,381 194 41,575 Intangible assets 2,214 100 2,314 6 2,320 Investments in associates and joint ventures 10,108 132 10,240 10,240 Advances and loans 1,987 824 1,163 1,163 Deferred tax asset 864 611 253 253 59,203 3,852 55,351 200 55,551 Current assets Inventories 6,047 21 6,068 47 6,115 Accounts receivable 3,632 61 3,693 38 3,731 Other financial assets 483 35 518 518 Cash and cash equivalents 1,690 6 1,684 1 1,685 Assets held for sale 3,616 3,616 3,616 11,852 3,727 15,579 86 15,665 Non-controlling interest 1,118 194 924 9 933 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 17,260 327 17,587 4 17,591 Deferred income 898 75 973 973 Deferred tax liabilities 4,373 103 4,270 32 4,302 Other financial liabilities 610 285 325 9 334 Provisions 7,480 168 7,312 14 7,326 30,621 154 30,467 59 30,526 Current liabilities Borrowings 1,884 158 1,726 17 1,743 Accounts payable 5,157 176 4,981 30 5,011 Deferred income 52 21 73 73 Provisions 169 46 215 215 Other financial liabilities 93 2 91 91 Liabilities held for sale 314 314 314 7,355 45 7,400 47 7,447 Total fair value of net assets acquired 31,961 178 32,139 171 32,310 Goodwill arising on acquisition 12,658 178 12,480 30 12,510 Less: amounts previously recognised through investments and loans 15,142 15,142 15,142 Less: Fair value of ordinary shares issued 29,094 29,094 29,094 Less: Fair value of share based awards 383 383 383 Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired 1,690 6 1,684 1 1,685 Acquisition related costs 38 237 275 275 Net cash received from used in acquisition of subsidiaries 1,652 243 1,409 200 1,209 1 There is no material difference between the gross contractual amounts for loans and advances and accounts receivable and their fair value.
2 Non-controlling interest measured at its percentage of net assets acquired.
3 The goodwill arising on acquisition is not deductible for tax purposes.
174 Xstrata On 2 May 2013, Glencore completed its acquisition of the remaining 66% which it did not previously own of the issued and outstanding equity of Xstrata, a leading global diversified mining group, for consideration of $29.5 billion.
The acquisition was completed through an all share exchange which gave Xstrata shareholders 3.05 Glencore shares for every Xstrata share, valuing Xstratas equity at approximately $44.6 billion.
The acquisition of Xstrata creates a unique global natural resources group, well positioned to seize opportunities in a world where trends continue to evolve towards a new global map, reflecting the degree to which changes are unfolding relating to where natural resources are consumed and supplied, especially as a result of demand from and emerging supply growth in developing economies.
The fair value adjustments to the previously reported provisional values primarily related to valuation of fixed assets, deferred tax assets, rehabilitation and other provisions and the classification of Las Bambas as an operation held for sale at acquisition see note 15.
The fair values are provisional due to the complexity of the valuation process.
The finalisation of the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities will be completed in the first half of 2014.
It is expected that further adjustments may be made to the allocation of value between fixed asset classes, deferred taxes, rehabilitation and other provisions and goodwill.
If the acquisition had been effective 1 January 2013, the operations would have contributed additional revenue of $9,443 million and an increase in attributable income of $259 million.
From the date of acquisition, the operations contributed $16,769 million and $1,485 million of revenue and attributable income, respectively.
Other Other acquisitions primarily consist of the acquisition on 26 February 2013 of an 89.5% controlling interest in Orion Minerals LLC, an entity holding two operations in northern Kazakhstan, for cash consideration of $175 million.
If the other acquisitions had taken place effective 1 January 2013, the operations would have contributed additional revenue of $4 million and additional attributable income of $1 million.
From the date of acquisition, the other acquisitions contributed $51 million and $7 million to Glencores revenue and attributable income, respectively.
2013 Disposals In 2013 Glencore disposed of controlling interests in various businesses that were acquired as part of the Viterra business combination in December 2012.
The carrying value of the assets and liabilities over which control was lost and net cash received from these disposals are detailed below: Dakota Growers Joe White US$ million Pasta Company Maltings Total Property, plant and equipment 320 355 675 Intangible assets 42 1 43 Inventories 35 23 58 Accounts receivable 24 38 62 Cash and cash equivalents 3 3 Deferred tax liabilities 40 40 Accounts payable 21 33 54 Financial liabilities 3 3 Total carrying value of net assets disposed 363 381 744 Cash and cash equivalents received 366 381 747 Less: cash and cash equivalent disposed 3 3 Total consideration received 363 381 744 Gain loss on disposal 175 Notes to the financial statements 25.
ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARIES continued 2012 Acquisitions Rosh European US$ million Viterra Mutanda Optimum PinahManganese Other Total Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 2,890 3,496 1,311 231 58 259 8,245 Intangible assets 67 1,096 1,163 Investments in associates 73 1 74 Advances and loans 6 11 175 192 Deferred tax asset 15 6 3,037 3,507 2,582 232 63 259 9,680 Current assets Inventories 1,5702235013127 44 2,027 Accounts receivable 1,083 99 57 8 85 11 1,343 Cash and cash equivalents 1,097 38 25 8 16 11 1,195 Assets held for sale 2,712 2,712 6,462 360 132 29 228 66 7,277 4 Non-controlling interest 807 460 28 28 1,323 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 592 5 99 1 1 698 Deferred income 591 591 Deferred tax liabilities 230 882 335 56 25 1,528 Other liabilities 6 9 15 Provisions 147 7 235 10 40 439 969 900 1,269 67 66 3,271 Current liabilities Borrowings 1,222 6 2 1,230 Accounts payable 1,528 152 100 16 113 43 1,952 Deferred income 97 97 Provisions 13 13 Liabilities held for sale 416 416 3,179 152 203 16 115 43 3,708 Total fair value of net assets acquired 5,351 2,008 782 150 176 188 8,655 5 Goodwill arising on acquisition 829 829 Less: amounts previously recognised through investments and loans 1,528 381 51 1,960 Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired 1,097 38 25 8 16 11 1,195 6 Acquisition related costs 120 Net cash used in acquisition of subsidiaries 5,083 442 376 142 160 126 6,449 Less: asset acquirer loans 2,580 2,580 Net cash outflow 2,503 442 376 142 160 126 3,869 1 During the year 2013 the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as reported in 31 December 2012 have been revised as outlined in the respective tables below.
2 During the year 2013 the acquisition accounting has been finalised with no material adjustments made to the provisional acquisition accounting as reported at 31 December 2012.
3 There is no material difference between the gross contractual amounts for loans and advances and accounts receivable and their fair value.
4 Non-controlling interest measured at its percentage of net assets acquired.
5 The goodwill arising on acquisition is not deductible for tax purposes.
6 Includes $58 million related to the Viterra acquisition.
176 Viterra On 17 December 2012, Glencore completed the acquisition of a 100% interest in Viterra Inc. a leading global agricultural commodity business for a net cash consideration of $6.2 billion $3.6 billion net of assets acquirer loans.
As part of the acquisition, Glencore entered into agreements with Agrium and Richardson which provided for the on-sale of certain assets of Viterra which were completed in 2013.
Agrium acquired assets which comprised the majority of Viterras retail agri-products business including its 34% interest in Canadian Fertilizer Limited CFL for $1,505 million in cash, which includes negative $242 million of operating adjustments.
Richardson acquired 23% of Viterras Canadian grain handling assets, certain agri-centres and certain processing assets in North America for $926 million in cash, which includes $126 million of operating adjustments.
Agrium and Richardson advanced the agreed consideration to Glencore upon closing of the Viterra acquisition classified as Asset acquirer loans.
The businesses acquired have been presented in single line items as assets and liabilities held for sale see note 15.
Upon closing of the divestitures in 2013, the relevant net assets were transferred to Agrium and Richardson and set off against the asset acquirer loans.
The acquisition of Viterra brings Glencore critical mass in the key grain markets of North America through Viterras substantial Canadian operations and greatly expands Glencores existing operations in Australia.
This acquisition is consistent with Glencores strategy to enhance its position as a leading participant in the global grain and oil seeds markets.
It has been accounted for as a business combination.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2012, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $12,816 million and an increase in attributable income of $264 million.
From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $5 million and $898 million to Glencores attributable income and revenue, respectively for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Glencore incurred acquisition related costs of $54 million and a realised foreign currency gain of $65 million on Canadian dollar hedges entered into in May in expectation of the acquisition both items included within other expense net, see note 4.
177 Notes to the financial statements 25.
ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARIES continued The below fair value adjustments to the previously reported provisional values relate to adjustments to the fair value calculations for the assets held for sale and selected storage units in the New Zealand business.
Provisional fair Fair value values as reported adjustments to the at 31 December provisional US$ million 2012 allocation Total Property, plant and equipment 2,505 385 2,890 Intangible assets 102 35 67 Investments in associates 76 3 73 Loans and advances 6 6 Deferred tax asset 1 1 Non-current assets 2,690 347 3,037 Inventories 1,572 2 1,570 Accounts receivable 1,063 20 1,083 Cash and cash equivalents 1,097 1,097 Assets held for sale 2,677 35 2,712 Current assets 6,409 53 6,462 Borrowings 592 592 Deferred tax liabilities 279 49 230 Provisions 114 33 147 Non-current liabilities 985 16 969 Borrowings 1,222 1,222 Accounts payable 1,496 32 1,528 Provisions 6 7 13 Liabilities held for sale 461 45 416 Current liabilities 3,185 6 3,179 Total fair value of net assets acquired 4,929 422 5,351 Goodwill arising on acquisition 1,251 422 829 Less: Cash and cash equivalents acquired 1,097 1,097 Less: Asset acquirer loans 2,580 2,580 Net cash outflow 2,503 2,503 Mutanda In April 2012, Glencore concluded its agreement to acquire an additional 20% interest in Mutanda, a copper and cobalt mining company located in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, for a total cash consideration of $480 million equity of $420 million and shareholder debt of $60 million thereby increasing its ultimate ownership in Mutanda from 40% to 60% and enhancing its attributable copper production base.
Prior to acquisition, Glencore owned a 40% interest in Mutanda which, in accordance with IFRS 3, at the date of acquisition was revalued to its fair value of $837 million and as a result, a gain of $517 million was recognised in other expense net see note 4.
The acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination with the non-controlling interest being measured at its percentage of net assets acquired.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2012, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $236 million and additional attributable income of $9 million.
From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $23 million and $533 million to Glencores attributable income and revenue, respectively for the year ended 31 December 2012.
In addition to the acquisition of the 20% interest in Mutanda noted above, Glencore concurrently entered into a put and call option arrangement, whereby Glencore had the right to acquire and the seller has the ability to force Glencore to acquire an additional 20% interest in Mutanda for a total cash consideration of $430 million.
The present value of the put option $419 million at the time was accounted in other financial liability with the corresponding amount recognised against non-controlling interest.
Glencore exercised this option in December 2013.
178 Optimum In March 2012, Glencore acquired an additional 31.8% interest in Optimum, a South African coal mining company, for a total consideration of $401 million thereby increasing its ultimate ownership in Optimum from 31.2% to 63.0% and enhancing its existing South African coal market presence.
Prior to acquisition, Glencore owned a 31.2% interest in Optimum which, in accordance with IFRS 3, at the date of acquisition was revalued to its fair value of $381 million and as a result, a loss of $20 million was recognised in other expense net see note 4.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2012, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $196 million and additional attributable income of $19 million.
From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $27 million and $541 million to Glencores attributable income and revenue, respectively for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Rosh Pinah In June 2012, Glencore completed the acquisition of an 80.1% interest in Rosh Pinah, a Namibian zinc and lead mining operation, for a cash consideration of $150 million increasing our zinc and lead production footprint.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2012, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $78 million and a decrease in attributable income of $2 million.
From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $1 million and $51 million to Glencores attributable income and revenue, respectively for the year ended 31 December 2012.
European Manganese In November 2012, Glencore completed the acquisition of a 100% interest in Vales European manganese ferroalloys operations, located in Dunkirk, France and Mo I Rana, Norway, for a cash consideration of $190 million.
This is the first time that Glencore has expanded into manganese production, strengthening its marketing offer and complementing existing production of steel-making products.
The acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2012, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $303 million and a decrease in attributable income of $18 million.
From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $49 million to revenue and a reduction in attributable income of $7 million for the year ended 31 December 2012.
The fair value adjustments recorded during 2013 relate to final purchase price adjustments agreed with Vale.
Provisional fair Fair value values as reported adjustments to the at 31 December provisional US$ million 2012 allocation Total Property, plant and equipment 72 14 58 Deferred tax asset 5 5 Inventories 127 127 Accounts receivable 85 85 Cash and cash equivalents 16 16 Current borrowings 2 2 Accounts payable 113 113 Total fair value of net assets acquired 190 14 176 Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired 16 16 Net cash used in acquisition of subsidiaries 174 14 160 1 There is no material difference between the gross contractual amounts for accounts receivable and their fair value.
Other Other comprises primarily an acquisition of a 100% interest in a sunseed crushing operation in Ukraine for a cash consideration of $80 million.
If the acquisitions had taken place effective 1 January 2012, the operations would have contributed additional revenue of $2 million and a decrease in attributable income of $1 million.
From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $1 million and $16 million to Glencores attributable income and revenue, respectively for the year ended 31 December 2012.
179 Notes to the financial statements 25.
ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARIES continued 2012 Disposals In December 2012, Glencore disposed of its 100% interest in Chemoil Storage Limited part of Chemoil Group, which owned and operated the Helios Terminal, for a cash consideration of $287 million.
US$ million Total Property, plant and equipment 279 Accounts receivable 1 Cash and cash equivalents 2 Non-current borrowings 7 Deferred tax liabilities 7 Current borrowings 1 Total carrying value of net assets disposed 267 Cash and cash equivalents received 287 Less: cash and cash equivalents disposed of 2 Total consideration received 285 Gain on disposal 20 26.
FINANCIAL AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT Financial risks arising in the normal course of business from Glencores operations comprise market risk including commodity price risk, interest rate risk and currency risk, credit risk including performance risk and liquidity risk.
It is Glencores policy and practice to identify and, where appropriate and practical, actively manage such risks to support its objectives in managing its capital and future financial security and flexibility.
Glencores overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to protect its financial security and flexibility by using derivative financial instruments where possible to substantially hedge these financial risks.
Glencores finance and risk professionals, working in coordination with the commodity departments, monitor, manage and report regularly to senior management and the Board of Directors on the approach and effectiveness in managing financial risks along with the financial exposures facing the Group.
Glencores objectives in managing its capital attributable to equity holders include preserving its overall financial health and strength for the benefit of all stakeholders, maintaining an optimal capital structure in order to provide a high degree of financial flexibility at an attractive cost of capital and safeguarding its ability to continue as a going concern, while generating sustainable long-term profitability.
Paramount in meeting these objectives is maintaining an investment grade credit rating status.
Following the Xstrata and Viterra acquisitions, Glencores current credit ratings are Baa2 stable from Moodys and BBB stable from S&P.
Dividend policy The Company intends to pursue a progressive dividend policy with the intention of maintaining or increasing its total ordinary dividend each year.
Dividends are expected to be declared by the Board semi-annually with the half-year results and the preliminary full-year results.
Interim dividends are expected to represent approximately one-third of the total dividend for any year.
Dividends will be declared and paid in U. S. dollars, although Shareholders will be able to elect to receive their dividend payments in Pounds Sterling, Euros or Swiss Francs based on the exchange rates in effect around the date of payment.
Shareholders on the Hong Kong branch register will receive their dividends in Hong Kong dollars, while shareholders on the JSE will receive their dividends in South African Rand.
Commodity price risk Glencore is exposed to price movements for the inventory it holds and the products it produces which are not held to meet priced forward contract obligations and forward priced purchase or sale contracts.
Glencore manages a significant portion of this exposure through futures and options transactions on worldwide commodity exchanges or in over the counter OTC markets, to the extent available.
Commodity price risk management activities are considered an integral part of Glencores physical commodity marketing activities and the related assets and liabilities are included in other financial assets from and other financial liabilities to derivative counterparties, including clearing brokers and exchanges.
Whilst it is Glencores policy to substantially hedge its commodity price risks, there remains the possibility that the hedging instruments chosen may not always provide effective mitigation of the underlying price risk.
The hedging instruments available to the marketing businesses may differ in specific characteristics to the risk exposure to be hedged, resulting in an ongoing and unavoidable basis risk exposure.
Residual basis risk exposures represent a key focus point for Glencores commodity department teams who actively engage in the management of such.
180 Value at risk One of the tools used by Glencore to monitor and limit its primary market risk exposure, principally commodity price risk related to its physical marketing activities, is the use of a value at risk VaR computation.
VaR is a risk measurement technique which estimates the potential loss that could occur on risk positions as a result of movements in risk factors over a specified time horizon, given a specific level of confidence and based on a specific price history.
The VaR methodology is a statistically defined, probability based approach that takes into account market volatilities, as well as risk diversification by recognising offsetting positions and correlations between commodities and markets.
In this way, risks can be measured consistently across all markets and commodities and risk measures can be aggregated to derive a single risk value.
Glencores Board has set a consolidated VaR limit one day 95% confidence level of $100 million representing some 0.2% of total equity, which it reviews annually.
Glencore uses a VaR approach based on Monte Carlo simulations and is computed at a 95% confidence level with a weighted data history for both a one day and a 5 day time horizon.
Position sheets are regularly distributed and monitored and daily Monte Carlo and historical simulations are applied to the various business groups net marketing positions to determine potential future losses.
As at 31 December 2013, Glencores 95%, one day market risk VaR was $35 million 2012: $49 million.
Average market risk VaR one day 95% confidence level during 2013 was $32 million 2012: $40 million.
VaR does not purport to represent actual gains or losses in fair value on earnings to be incurred by Glencore, nor does Glencore claim that these VaR results are indicative of future market movements or representative of any actual impact on its future results.
VaR should always be viewed in the context of its limitations: notably, the use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future events, market illiquidity risks and tail risks.
Glencore recognises these limitations, and thus complements and continuously refines its VaR analysis by analysing forward looking stress scenarios and back testing calculated VaR against estimated movements arising in the next business day and week.
Glencores VaR computation currently covers its business in the key base metals including aluminium, nickel, zinc, copper, lead etc.
coal, iron ore, oil natural gas and the main risks in the agricultural products business segment grain, oil seeds, sugar and cotton and assesses the open priced positions which are those subject to price risk, including inventories of these commodities.
Due to the lack of a liquid terminal market, Glencore does not include a VaR calculation for products such as alumina, molybdenum, cobalt, freight and some risk associated with concentrates as it does not consider the nature of these markets, to be suited to this type of analysis.
Alternative measures are used to monitor exposures related to these products.
Net present value at risk Glencores future cash flows related to its forecast energy, metals and minerals and agricultural production activities are also exposed to commodity price movements.
Glencore manages this exposure through a combination of portfolio diversification, occasional shorter-term hedging via futures and options transactions, insurance products and continuous internal monitoring, reporting and quantification of the underlying operations estimated cash flows and valuations.
Interest rate risk Glencore is exposed to various risks associated with the effects of fluctuations in the prevailing levels of market interest rates on its assets and liabilities and cash flows.
Matching of assets and liabilities is utilised as the dominant method to hedge interest rate risks, other methods include the use of interest rate swaps and similar derivative instruments.
Floating rate debt which is predominantly used to fund fast turning working capital interest is internally charged on the funding of this working capital is primarily based on US$LIBOR plus an appropriate premium.
Accordingly, prevailing market interest rates are continuously factored into transactional pricing and terms.
Assuming the amount of floating rate liabilities at the reporting period end were outstanding for the whole year, interest rates were 50 basis points higher lower and all other variables held constant, Glencores income and equity for the year ended 31 December 2013 would decrease increase by $105 million 2012: $109 million.
Currency risk The US dollar is the predominant functional currency of the Group.
Currency risk is the risk of loss from movements in exchange rates related to transactions and balances in currencies other than the U. S. dollar.
Such transactions include operating expenditure, capital expenditure and to a lesser extent purchases and sales in currencies other than the functional currency.
Purchases or sales of commodities concluded in currencies other than the functional currency, apart from certain limited domestic sales at industrial operations which act as a hedge against local operating costs, are ordinarily hedged through forward exchange contracts.
Consequently, foreign exchange movements against the U. S. dollar on recognised transactions would have an immaterial financial impact.
Glencore enters into currency hedging transactions with leading financial institutions.
Glencores debt related payments both principal and interest are denominated in or swapped using hedging instruments into U. S. dollars.
Glencores operating expenses, being a small portion of its revenue base, are incurred in a mix of currencies of which the U. S. Dollar, Swiss Franc, Pound Sterling, Canadian Dollar, Australian Dollar, Euro, Kazakhstan Tenge, Colombian Peso and South African Rand are the predominant currencies.
181 Notes to the financial statements 26.
FINANCIAL AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued Glencore has issued Euro, Swiss Franc and sterling denominated bonds see note 20.
Cross currency swaps were concluded to hedge the currency risk on the principal and related interest payments of these bonds.
These contracts were designated as cash flow hedges of the foreign currency risks associated with the bonds.
The fair value of these derivatives is as follows: Notional amounts Recognised fair values Average US$ million Buy Sell Assets Liabilities maturity Cross currency swap agreements 2013 16,658 167 2018 Cross currency swap agreements 2012 9,039 82 2017 1 Refer to note 20 for details.
Credit risk Credit risk arises from the possibility that counterparties may not be able to settle obligations due to Glencore within their agreed payment terms.
Financial assets which potentially expose Glencore to credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, receivables and advances, derivative instruments and non-current advances and loans.
Glencores credit management process includes the assessment, monitoring and reporting of counterparty exposure on a regular basis.
Glencores cash and cash equivalents are placed overnight with a diverse group of highly credit rated financial institutions.
Credit risk with respect to receivables and advances is mitigated by the large number of customers comprising Glencores customer base, their diversity across various industries and geographical areas, as well as Glencores policy to mitigate these risks through letters of credit, netting, collateral and insurance arrangements where appropriate.
Additionally, it is Glencores policy that transactions and activities in trade related financial instruments be concluded under master netting agreements or long form confirmations to enable offsetting of balances due to from a common counterparty in the event of default by the counterparty.
Glencore actively and continuously monitors the credit quality of its counterparties through internal reviews and a credit scoring process, which includes, where available, public credit ratings.
Balances with counterparties not having a public investment grade or equivalent internal rating are typically enhanced to investment grade through the extensive use of credit enhancement products, such as letters of credit or insurance products.
Glencore has a diverse customer base, with no customer representing more than 2.5% 2012: 3% of its trade receivables on a gross basis taking into account credit enhancements or accounting for more than 3.0% of its revenues over the year ended 2013 2012: 2%.
The maximum exposure to credit risk, without considering netting agreements or without taking account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements, is equal to the carrying amount of Glencores financial assets plus the guarantees to third parties and associates see note 31.
Performance risk Performance risk arises from the possibility that counterparties may not be willing or able to meet their future contractual physical sale or purchase obligations to from Glencore.
Glencore undertakes the assessment, monitoring and reporting of performance risk within its overall credit management process.
Glencores market breadth, diversified supplier and customer base as well as the standard pricing mechanism in the majority of Glencores commodity portfolio which does not fix prices beyond three months, with the main exceptions being coal and cotton where longer-term fixed price contracts are common, ensure that performance risk is adequately mitigated.
The commodity industry has trended towards shorter fixed price contract periods, in part to mitigate against such potential performance risk, but also due to the development of more transparent and liquid spot markets, e. g. coal and iron ore and associated derivative products and indexes.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that Glencore is unable to meet its payment obligations when due, or that it is unable, on an ongoing basis, to borrow funds in the market on an unsecured or secured basis at an acceptable price to fund actual or proposed commitments.
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and cash equivalents and availability of adequate committed funding facilities.
Glencore has set itself an internal minimum liquidity target to maintain at all times, including via available committed undrawn credit facilities of $3 billion 2012: $3 billion.
Glencores credit profile, diversified funding sources and committed credit facilities, ensure that sufficient liquid funds are maintained to meet its liquidity requirements.
As part of its liquidity management, Glencore closely monitors and plans for its future capital expenditure and proposed investments, as well as credit facility refinancing extension requirements, well ahead of time.
182 As at 31 December 2013, Glencore had available committed undrawn credit facilities, cash and marketable securities amounting to $12,878 million 2012: $9,018 million.
The maturity profile of Glencores financial liabilities based on the contractual terms is as follows: 2013 US$ million After 5 years Due 35 years Due 23 years Due 12 years Due 01 year Total Borrowings 13,124 9,111 11,832 4,657 16,461 55,185 Expected future interest payments 7,907 1,557 1,175 1,326 1,722 13,687 Accounts payable 26,041 26,041 Other financial liabilities 3,410 3,410 Total  47,63498,323 Current assets 58,542 58,542 2012 Total US$ million After 5 years Due 35 years Due 23 years Due 12 years Due 01 year Restated Borrowings 4,6802,7572,3129,279 16,498 35,526 Expected future interest payments 417 684 662 927 1,067 3,757 Viterra assets acquirer loans 2,580 2,580 Accounts payable 23,533 23,533 Other financial liabilities 3,388 3,388 Total 5,097 3,441 2,974 10,206 47,066 68,784 Current assets 54,112 54,112 1 Comprises adjustments to the fair value calculations in relation to the acquisition of Viterra see note 25 27.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Fair value of financial instruments The following tables present the carrying values and fair values of Glencores financial instruments.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction in the principal most advantageous market at the measurement date under current market conditions.
Where available, market values have been used to determine fair values.
When market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing market interest and exchange rates.
The estimated fair values have been determined using market information and appropriate valuation methodologies, but are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that Glencore could realise in the normal course of business.
The financial assets and liabilities are presented by class in the tables below at their carrying values, which generally approximate to the fair values with the exception of $55,185 million 2012: $35,526 million of borrowings, the fair value of which at 31 December 2013 was $56,735 million 2012: $36,371 million based on observable market prices applied to the borrowing portfolio a Level 2 fair value measurement.
183 Notes to the financial statements 27.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued 2013 US$ million Carrying value Available for sale FVtPL Total Assets Other investments 394 529 923 Advances and loans 4,095 4,095 Accounts receivable 24,536 24,536 Other financial assets see note 28 2,904 2,904 4 Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities 2,885 2,885 Total financial assets 28,631 394 6,318 35,343 Liabilities Borrowings 55,185 55,185 Non-current other financial liabilities see note 28 1,044 1,044 Accounts payable 26,041 26,041 Other financial liabilities see note 28 2,366 2,366 Total financial liabilities 81,226 3,410 84,636 1 Carrying value comprises investments, loans, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other liabilities measured at amortised cost.
2 FVtPL Fair value through profit and loss held for trading.
3 Other investments of $772 million are classified as Level 1 measured using quoted market prices with the remaining balance of $151 million being investments in private companies whose fair value cannot be reliably measured which are carried cost.
4 Classified as Level 1, measured using quoted exchange rates and or market prices.
2012 Total US$ million Carrying value Available for sale FVtPL Restated Assets 4 Other investments 840 749 1,589 Advances and loans 3,758 3,758 Accounts receivable 24,902 24,902 Other financial assets see note 28 2,650 2,650 5 Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities 2,820 2,820 Total financial assets 28,660 840 6,219 35,719 Liabilities Borrowings 35,526 35,526 Viterra asset acquirer loans 2,580 2,580 Accounts payable 23,533 23,533 Other financial liabilities see note 28 3,388 3,388 Total financial liabilities 61,639 3,388 65,027 1 Carrying value comprises investments, loans, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other liabilities measured at amortised cost.
3 Comprises adjustments to the fair value calculations in relation to the acquisition of Viterra see note 25.
4 Other investments of $1,414 million are classified as Level 1 measured using quoted market prices with the remaining balance of $175 million being investments in private companies whose fair value cannot be reliably measured which are carried cost.
5 Classified as Level 1, measured using quoted exchange rates and or market prices.
184 Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities In accordance with IAS 32 the Group reports financial assets and liabilities on a net basis in the consolidated statement of financial position only if there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting and similar agreements as at 31 December 2013 were as follows: 2013 Amounts eligible for set off Related amounts not set off Total as US$ million under netting agreements under netting agreements presented in the Amounts not consolidated subject statement of Gross Amounts Net Financial Financial Net to netting financial amount offset amount instruments collateral amount agreements position Derivative assets 4,001 2,905 1,096 237 262 597 1,808 2,904 Derivative liabilities 3,624 2,905 719 237 285 197 1,647 2,366 1 Presented within current other financial assets and current other financial liabilities.
For the financial assets and liabilities subject to enforceable master netting or similar arrangements above, each agreement between the Group and the counterparty allows for net settlement of the relevant financial assets and liabilities when both elect to settle on a net basis.
In the absence of such an election, financial assets and liabilities may be settled on a gross basis, however, each party to the master netting or similar agreement will have the option to settle all such amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party.
Per the terms of each agreement, an event of default includes failure by a party to make payment when due, failure by a party to perform any obligation required by the agreement other than payment if such failure is not remedied within periods of 30 to 60 days after notice of such failure is given to the party or bankruptcy.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS Fair values are primarily determined using quoted market prices or standard pricing models using observable market inputs where available and are presented to reflect the expected gross future cash in outflows.
Glencore classifies the fair values of its financial instruments into a three level hierarchy based on the degree of the source and observability of the inputs that are used to derive the fair value of the financial asset or liability as follows: Level 1 Inputs are quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that Glencore can assess at the measurement date: or Level 2 Inputs other than quoted inputs included in Level 1 that are observable for the assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly: or Level 3 Unobservable inputs for the assets or liabilities, requiring Glencore to make market based assumptions.
Level 1 classifications primarily include futures with a tenor of less than one year and options that are exchange traded, whereas Level 2 classifications primarily include futures with a tenor greater than one year, over the counter options, swaps and physical forward transactions which derive their fair value primarily from exchange quotes and readily observable broker quotes.
Level 3 classifications primarily include physical forward transactions which derive their fair value predominately from models that use broker quotes and applicable market based estimates surrounding location, quality and credit differentials and financial liabilities linked to the fair value of certain mining operations.
In circumstances where Glencore cannot verify fair value with observable market inputs Level 3 fair values, it is possible that a different valuation model could produce a materially different estimate of fair value.
It is Glencores policy that transactions and activities in trade related financial instruments be concluded under master netting agreements or long form confirmations to enable balances due to from a common counterparty to be offset in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy by the counterparty.
The following tables show the fair values of the derivative financial instruments including trade related financial and physical forward purchase and sale commitments by type of contract and non-current other financial liabilities as at 31 December 2013 and 2012.
Other assets and liabilities which are measured at fair value on a recurring basis are marketing inventories, other investments, cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities.
Refer to notes 12 and 27 for disclosures in connection with these fair value measurements.
There are no nonrecurring fair value measurements.
185 Notes to the financial statements 28.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS continued Other financial assets 2013 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Commodity related contracts Futures 444 261 705 Options 26 2 28 Swaps 65 94 159 Physical forwards 701 481 1,182 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 519 519 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 297 14 311 Total 832 1,591 481 2,904 2012 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Commodity related contracts Futures 564 141 705 Options 27 4 31 Swaps 75 304 379 Physical forwards 12 778 485 1,275 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 152 152 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 63 45 108 Total 741 1,420 489 2,650 186 Other financial liabilities 2013 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Commodity related contracts Futures 542 84 626 Options 15 4 31 50 Swaps 27 72 99 Physical forwards 9 572 266 847 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 512 512 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 191 41 232 Current other financial liabilities 784 1,285 297 2,366 Non-current other financial liabilities Non-discretionary dividend obligation 359 359 Put option over non-controlling interest 685 685 Non-current other financial liabilities 1,044 1,044 Total 784 1,285 1,341 3,410 1 A ZAR denominated derivative liability of $325 million payable to ARM Coal, one of the Groups principal coal joint operations based in South Africa, was assumed through the acquisition of Xstrata see note 25.
It was subsequently revalued to its fair value of $359 million as at 31 December 2013.
The liability arises from ARM Coals rights as an investor to a share of agreed free cash flows from certain coal operations in South Africa and is valued based on those cash flows using a risk adjusted discount rate.
The derivative liability is settled over the life of those operations and has no fixed repayment date and is not cancellable within 12 months.
2 A put option over the remaining 31% of Mutanda is exercisable in two equal tranches in July 2016 and July 2018.
The exercise price of the put option is subject to the fair value of Mutanda at the date of exercise, see note 33.
2012 US$ million Notes Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Commodity related contracts Futures 712 283 995 Options 96 1 37 134 Swaps 25 267 292 Physical forwards 14 439 393 846 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 633 633 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 48 21 69 Put option over non-controlling interest 25 419 419 Total 895 1,644 849 3,388 187 Notes to the financial statements 28.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS continued The following table shows the net changes in fair value of Level 3 other financial assets and other financial liabilities: Physical Loans and Total US$ million Notes forwards Options other Level 3 1 January 2012 42 25 17 Total gain loss recognised in cost of goods sold 10 33 23 Put option over non-controlling interest 25 419 419 Realised 44 21 65 31 December 2012 96 456 360 1 January 2013 96 456 360 Business combination 25 13 359 372 Total gain loss recognised in cost of goods sold 220 30 190 Put option over non-controlling interest 266 266 Realised 88 36 52 31 December 2013 215 716 359 860 During the year no amounts were transferred between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy and no amounts were transferred into or out of Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy for either other financial assets or other financial liabilities.
Some of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period.
The following table provides information about how the fair values of these financial assets and financial liabilities are determined, in particular, the valuation techniques and inputs used.
Fair value of financial assets financial liabilities US$ million 2013 2012 Futures Level 1 Assets 444 564 Liabilities 542 712 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market Significant unobservable inputs: None Futures Level 2 Assets 261 141 Liabilities 84 283 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which captures the time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, as required.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Options Level 1 Assets 26 27 Liabilities 15 96 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market Significant unobservable inputs: None Options Level 2 Assets 2 Liabilities 4 1 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Significant unobservable inputs: None 188 Fair value of financial assets financial liabilities US$ million 2013 2012 Options Level 3 Assets 4 Liabilities 31 37 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Standard option pricing model Significant unobservable inputs: Prices are adjusted by differentials, as required, including: Volatility: and Credit risk.
These significant unobservable inputs generally represent 2% 20% of the overall value of the instruments.
These differentials move in symmetry with each other, e. g a decrease in volatility leads to a decrease in credit risk, resulting in no material change in the underlying value.
Swaps Level 1 Assets 65 75 Liabilities 27 25 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market Significant unobservable inputs: None Swaps Level 2 Assets 94 304 Liabilities 72 267 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Physical Forwards Level 1 Assets 12 Liabilities 9 14 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market Significant unobservable inputs: None Physical Forwards Level 2 Assets 701 778 Liabilities 572 439 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Physical Forwards Level 3 Assets 481 485 Liabilities 266 393 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Significant unobservable inputs: Prices are adjusted by differentials, as required, including: Quality: Geographic location: Local supply & demand: Customer requirements: and Counterparty credit considerations.
These significant unobservable inputs generally represent 2% 50% of the overall value of the instruments.
These differentials are generally symmetrical with an increase decrease in one input resulting in an opposite movement in another input, resulting in no material change in the underlying value.
189 Notes to the financial statements 28.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS continued Fair value of financial assets financial liabilities US$ million 2013 2012 Cross currency swaps Level 2 Assets 519 152 Liabilities 512 633 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Foreign currency and interest rate contracts Level 1 Assets 297 63 Liabilities 191 48 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market Significant unobservable inputs: None Foreign currency and interest rate contracts Level 2 Assets 14 45 Liabilities 41 21 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Non-discretionary dividend obligation Level 3 Assets Liabilities 359 Valuation techniques: Discounted cash flow model Forecast commodity prices: and Significant observable inputs: Discount rates using weighted average cost of capital methodology Production models: Significant unobservable inputs: Operating costs: and Capital expenditures.
The resultant liability is essentially a discounted cash flow valuation of the underlying mining operation.
Increases decreases in forecast commodity prices will result in an increase decrease to the value of the liability though this will be partially offset by associated increases decreases in the assumed production levels, operating costs and capital expenditures which are inherently linked to forecast commodity prices.
There are no reasonable changes in assumptions which would result in a material change to the fair value of the underlying liability.
Put option over non-controlling interest Level 3 Assets Liabilities 685 419 Valuation techniques: Discounted cash flow model Forecast commodity prices: and Significant observable inputs: Discount rates using weighted average cost of capital methodology.
Production models: Significant unobservable inputs: Operating costs: and Capital expenditures.
AUDITORS REMUNERATION US$ million 2013 2012 Remuneration in respect of the audit of Glencores consolidated financial statements 7 4 Other audit fees, primarily in respect of audits of accounts of subsidiaries 24 13 Audit-related assurance services 5 2 Total audit and related assurance fees 36 19 Corporate finance services 1 6 Taxation compliance services 2 3 Other taxation advisory services 6 2 Other assurance services 1 Other services 3 2 Total non-audit-fees 13 13 Total professional fees 49 32 1 Audit-related assurance services primarily related to interim reviews of the Groups half year accounts and quarterly accounts of the Groups publicly listed subsidiaries.
FUTURE COMMITMENTS Capital expenditure for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment, with the exception of major expansion or development programmes, is generally funded through the cash flow generated by the respective industrial entities.
As at 31 December 2013, $2,817 million 2012: $756 million, of which 74% 2012: 63% relates to expenditure to be incurred over the next year, was contractually committed for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment.
Certain of Glencores exploration tenements and licenses require it to spend a minimum amount per year on development activities, a significant portion of which would have been incurred in the ordinary course of operations.
As at 31 December 2013, $623 million 2012: $343 million of such development expenditures are to be incurred, of which 55% 2012: 41% are for commitments to be settled over the next year.
Glencore procures seagoing vessels chartering services to meet its overall marketing objectives and commitments.
At year end, Glencore has committed to future hire costs to meet future physical delivery and sale obligations and expectations of $1,035 million 2012: $1,419 million of which $578 million 2012: $596 million are with associated companies.
56% 2012: 55% of the total charters are for services to be received over the next two years.
As part of Glencores ordinary sourcing and procurement of physical commodities and other ordinary marketing obligations, the selling party may request that a financial institution act as either a the paying party upon the delivery of product and qualifying documents through the issuance of a letter of credit or b the guarantor by way of issuing a bank guarantee accepting responsibility for Glencores contractual obligations.
As at 31 December 2013, $13,886 million 2012: $10,509 million of such commitments have been issued on behalf of Glencore, which will generally be settled simultaneously with the payment for such commodity.
Glencore has entered into various operating leases mainly as lessee for office and warehouse storage facilities.
Rental expenses for these leases totalled respectively $203 million and $99 million for the years ended 31 December 2013 and 2012.
Future net minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: US$ million 2013 2012 Within 1 year 105 110 Between 2 and 5 years 216 213 After 5 years 114 160 Total 435 483 191 Notes to the financial statements 30.
FUTURE COMMITMENTS continued Glencore has entered into finance leases for various plant and equipment items, primarily vessels and machinery.
Future net minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the future finance charges are as follows: Undiscounted Present value of minimum lease payments minimum lease payments US$ million 2013 2012 2013 2012 Within 1 year 70 62 49 48 Between 1 and 5 years 276 188 188 146 After 5 years 201 109 156 87 Total minimum lease payments 547 359 393 281 Less: amounts representing finance lease charges 154 78 Present value of minimum lease payments 393 281 393 281 Future development and related commitments Clermont thermal coal mine In October 2013, Glencore and Sumitomo Corporation agreed to acquire Rio Tinto's 50.1% interest in the Clermont thermal coal mine in Queensland, Australia, for $1,015 million.
Each company will hold a 25.05% effective economic interest in the mine.
The acquisition is subject to customary closing conditions, including certain regulatory approvals, and is expected to close during H1 2014.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The amount of corporate guarantees in favour of third parties as at 31 December 2013 was $Nil 2012: $46 million.
The Group is subject to various claims which arise in the ordinary course of business as detailed below.
These contingent liabilities are reviewed on a regular basis and where practical an estimate is made of the potential financial impact on the Group.
As at 31 December 2013 it was not practical to make such an assessment.
Litigation Certain legal actions, other claims and unresolved disputes are pending against Glencore.
Whilst Glencore cannot predict the results of any litigation, it believes that it has meritorious defences against those actions or claims.
Glencore believes the likelihood of any material liability arising from these claims to be remote and that the liability, if any, resulting from any litigation will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated income, financial position or cash flows.
Environmental contingencies Glencores operations, mainly those arising from the ownership in industrial investments, are subject to various environmental laws and regulations.
Glencore is in material compliance with those laws and regulations.
Glencore accrues for environmental contingencies when such contingencies are probable and reasonably estimable.
Such accruals are adjusted as new information develops or circumstances change.
Recoveries of environmental remediation costs from insurance companies and other parties are recorded as assets when the recoveries are virtually certain.
At this time, Glencore is unaware of any material environmental incidents at its locations.
Tax audits Glencore assesses its liabilities and contingencies for all tax years open to audit based upon the latest information available.
For those matters where it is probable that an adjustment will be made, the Group records its best estimate of these tax liabilities, including related interest charges.
Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to complexities of interpretation and changes in tax laws.
Whilst Glencore believes it has adequately provided for the outcome of these matters, future results may include favourable or unfavourable adjustments to these estimated tax liabilities in the period the assessments are made, or resolved.
The final outcome of tax examinations may result in a materially different outcome than assumed in the tax liabilities.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS In the normal course of business, Glencore enters into various arms length transactions with related parties including Xstrata pre-acquisition and Century, including fixed price commitments to sell and to purchase commodities, forward sale and purchase contracts, agency agreements and management service agreements.
Outstanding balances at period end are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash see notes 11, 13, and 24.
There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party receivables or payables.
All transactions between Glencore and its subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation along with any unrealised profits and losses between its subsidiaries and associates.
Glencore entered into the following transactions with its associates: US$ million 2013 2012 Sales 1,863 1,661 Purchases 4,365 10,244 Interest income 24 24 Interest expense 1 4 Agency income 33 95 1 Includes pre-acquisition sales to Xstrata which comprise 28% of the balance 2012: 52%.
2 Includes pre-acquisition purchases from Xstrata which comprise 84% of the balance 2012: 89%.
3 Includes pre-acquisition interest income from Xstrata which comprise 7% of the balance 2012: 19%.
4 Includes pre-acquisition agency income from Xstrata which comprise 91% of the balance 2012: 93%.
Remuneration of key management personnel Glencores key management personnel are the members of the Board of Directors, CEO, CFO and the heads of the operating segments.
The remuneration of Directors and other members of key management personnel recognised in the consolidated statement of income including salaries and other current employee benefits amounted to $7 million 2012: $7 million.
There were no other long-term benefits or sharebased payments provided to key management personnel 2012: $Nil.
Further details on remuneration of Directors are set out in the Directors remuneration report on page 92.
193 Notes to the financial statements 33.
PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES WITH MATERIAL NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS A list of the principal operating, finance and industrial subsidiaries is included in note 35.
Non-controlling interest is comprised of the following: US$ million 2013 2012 Kazzinc 1,436 1,388 Mutanda 105 389 Optimum 326 432 Alumbrera 279 Other 1,256 825 Total 3,192 3,034 1 Other comprises various subsidiaries in which no individual balance attributable to non-controlling interests is material.
Summarised financial information in respect of Glencores subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interest, reflecting 100% of the underlying subsidiarys relevant figures, is set out below.
US$ million Kazzinc Mutanda Optimum Alumbrera 31 December 2013 Non-current assets 4,841 4,694 1,927 475 Current assets 1,106 586 87 641 Total assets 5,947 5,280 2,014 1,116 Non-current liabilities 814 3,790 827 295 Current liabilities 408 977 180 263 Total liabilities 1,222 4,767 1,007 558 Net assets 4,725 513 1,007 558 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 3,289 618 681 279 Non-controlling interests 1,436 105 326 279 Non-controlling interests in % 30.3% 31.0% 32.4% 50.0% 2013 Revenue 2,587 1,204 751 718 Expenses 2,437 1,011 706 705 Profit for the year 150 193 45 13 Profit attributable to owners of the Company 103 142 30 7 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 47 51 15 6 Other comprehensive income attributable to owners of the Company Other comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests Total comprehensive income for the year 150 193 45 13 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 142 Net cash inflow from operating activities 451 68 74 93 Net cash outflow from investing activities 425 185 122 46 Net cash outflow inflow from financing activities 43 96 46 441 Total net cash outflow 17 21 2 394 194 Mutanda In July 2013, Glencore completed the merger between Mutanda and Kansuki which was accounted for as an asset acquisition as the acquired assets and liabilities of Kansuki did not meet the definition of a business.
In addition, Glencore concurrently entered into a put and call option arrangement, whereby Glencore has a right to acquire and the seller has the ability to force Glencore to acquire the remaining 31% interest in Mutanda at fair market value in two 15.5% tranches in July 2016 and July 2018.
The present value of the put option, $685 million at acquisition date, has been accounted for as within other financial liabilities see note 28 with the corresponding amount recognised against non-controlling interest.
US$ million Kazzinc Mutanda Optimum 31 December 2012 Non-current assets 4,862 3,560 2,347 Current assets 962 512 112 Total assets 5,824 4,072 2,459 Non-current liabilities 1,011 1,681 1,093 Current liabilities 246 371 173 Total liabilities 1,257 2,052 1,266 Net assets 4,567 2,020 1,193 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 3,179 1,631 761 Non-controlling interests 1,388 389 432 Non-controlling interests in % 30.4% 40.0% 33.0% 2012 Revenue 2,839 533 541 Expenses 2,508 509 477 Profit for the year 331 23 64 Profit attributable to owners of the Company 180 17 40 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 151 6 24 Other comprehensive income attributable to owners of the Company Other comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests Total comprehensive income for the year 331 23 64 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests Net cash inflow from operating activities 303 302 227 Net cash outflow from investing activities 342 263 230 Net cash inflow from financing activities 1 10 Total net cash outflow inflow 38 39 7 34.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS With the exception of the proposed final dividend for 2013, there have been no reportable subsequent events since 31 December 2013.
195 Notes to the financial statements 35.
PRINCIPAL OPERATING, FINANCE AND INDUSTRIAL SUBSIDIARIES AND INVESTMENTS Country % interest % interest of incorporation 2013 2012 Main activity Principal subsidiaries Metals and minerals Allied Alumina Inc. Sherwin USA 100.0 100.0 Alumina production 1 Minera Alumbrera Limited Antigua 50.0 0.0 Copper production Cobar Group Australia 100.0 100.0 Copper production Ernest Henry Mining Pty Ltd. Australia 100.0 0.0 Copper production 2 Katanga Mining Limited Canada 75.2 75.2 Copper Cobalt production Minera Altos fide Punitaqui Limitada Chile 100.0 100.0 Copper production Compania Minera Xstrata Lomas Bayas Chile 100.0 0.0 Copper production Xstrata Copper Chile S. A. Chile 100.0 0.0 Copper production Compania Minera Antapaccay S. A. Peru 100.0 0.0 Copper production Xstrata Las Bambas S. A. Peru 100.0 0.0 Copper production Pasar Group Philippines 78.2 78.2 Copper production Glencore Recycling Inc. USA 100.0 0.0 Copper production Mopani Copper Mines plc Zambia 73.1 73.1 Copper production Sable Zinc Kabwe Limited Zambia 100.0 100.0 Copper production 3 Sagittarius Mines Inc Philippines 62.5 0.0 Copper production 4 Mutanda Group DRC 69.0 60.0 Copper Cobalt production 4 Kansuki DRC 0.0 37.5 Copper Cobalt production Mount Isa Mines Limited Australia 100.0 0.0 Copper Zinc Lead production Kazzinc Ltd. Kazakhstan 69.7 69.6 Copper Zinc Lead production African Carbon Producers Pty Ltd South Africa 100.0 0.0 Char production African Fine Carbon Pty Ltd South Africa 100.0 0.0 Char production Char Technology Pty Ltd South Africa 100.0 0.0 Char production Vasilkovskoye Gold Kazakhstan 69.7 69.6 Gold production Sphere Minerals Limited Australia 88.2 0.0 Iron Ore production Britannia Refined Metals Limited UK 100.0 0.0 Lead production Glencore Manganese Group France Norway 100.0 100.0 Manganese furnace Pacorini Group Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Metals warehousing Murrin Murrin Group Australia 100.0 100.0 Nickel production Falconbridge Dominican S. A. Dominican Rep. 85.3 0.0 Nickel production 5 Koniambo Nickel S. A. S. New Caledonia 49.0 0.0 Nickel production Glencore Nikkelverk AS Norway 100.0 0.0 Nickel production Eland Platinum Holdings Pty Limited South Africa 100.0 0.0 Platinum production McArthur River Mining Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 0.0 Zinc production Perkoa Group Burkina Faso 62.7 55.7 Zinc production Xstrata Zinc GmBH Germany 100.0 0.0 Zinc production Asturiana fide Zinc S. A. Spain 100.0 0.0 Zinc production 1 This investment is treated as a subsidiary as the Group is entitled to elect the chairman of the Board who has the casting vote where any vote is split equally between the four board positions.
Minera Alumbrera Limiteds principal place of business is Argentina.
2 Publicly traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the symbol KAT.
3 Overall legal ownership is 26.959%: effective ownership is 62.5%.
4 In July 2013, Glencore completed the merger of Mutanda and Kansuki, previously an associate of the Group see note 33.
5 The Group has control of Koniambo Nickel SAS as a result of the ability direct the key activities of the operation and to appoint key management personnel provided by the terms of the financing arrangements underlying the Koniambo project.
196 Country of % interest % interest incorporation 2013 2012 Main activity Metals and minerals continued AR Zinc Group Argentina 100.0 100.0 Zinc Lead production Portovesme S. r. L. Italy 100.0 100.0 Zinc Lead production Rosh Pinah Zinc Corporation Pty Limited Namibia 80.1 80.1 Zinc Lead production Empresa Minera Los Quenuales S. A. Peru 97.6 97.6 Zinc Lead production Sinchi Wayra Group Bolivia 100.0 100.0 Zinc Tin production Energy products Cook Resources Mining Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 0.0 Coal production Cumnock No.
1 Colliery Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 0.0 Coal production Enex Foydell Limited Australia 100.0 0.0 Coal production Enex Liddell Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 0.0 Coal production Enex Oakbridge Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 0.0 Coal production Enex Togara Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 0.0 Coal production Glencore Coal Queensland Pty Limited Australia 100.0 0.0 Coal production Jonsha Pty Limited Australia 100.0 0.0 Coal production Mangoola Coal Operations Pty Limited Australia 100.0 0.0 Coal production Oceanic Coal Australia Pty Limited Australia 100.0 0.0 Coal production Ravensworth Operations Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 0.0 Coal production Ulan Coal Mines Limited Australia 90.0 0.0 Coal production Ulan Power Company Pty Limited Australia 100.0 0.0 Coal production United Collieries Pty Ltd Australia 95.0 0.0 Coal production Prodeco Group Colombia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Optimum Coal Holdings Limited South Africa 67.6 67.0 Coal production 6 Shanduka Coal Pty Ltd South Africa 49.9 49.9 Coal production 7 Umcebo Mining Pty Ltd South Africa 43.7 43.7 Coal production Tavistock Collieries Pty Limited South Africa 100.0 0.0 Coal production Topley Corporation B. V. I.
100.0 100.0 Ship owner Glencore Exploration EG Ltd. Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Oil production 8 Chemoil Energy Limited Hong Kong 89.2 89.2 Oil storage and bunkering Agricultural products Glencore Biofuels AG Switzerland 100.0 67.5 Biofuel production Moreno Group Argentina 100.0 100.0 Edible oil production Usti Oilseed Group Czech Republic 100.0 100.0 Edible oil production Pannon Vegetable Oil Manufacturing LLC Hungary 100.0 100.0 Edible oil production Zaklady Tluszozowe w Bodaczowie Sp.
z. o. o. Poland 100.0 99.9 Edible oil production Viterra Group Canada 100.0 100.0 Grain handling Glencane Bioenergia S. A.
Sugar cane formerly Rio Vermelho Brazil 100.0 100.0 ethanol production Correcta Industria e Comercio Ltdo.
Brazil 100.0 100.0 Wheat flour milling 6 Although Glencore holds less than 50% of the voting rights, it has the ability to exercise control over Shanduka through the ability to direct the key activities of the operation and to appoint key management personnel provided by the terms of the shareholders agreement.
7 Although Glencore holds less than 50% of the voting rights, it has the ability to exercise control over Umcebo as a result of shareholder agreements which provide Glencore the ability to control the Board of Directors.
8 Publicly traded on the Singapore Exchange under the symbol CHEL.
197 Notes to the financial statements 35.
PRINCIPAL OPERATING, FINANCE AND INDUSTRIAL SUBSIDIARIES AND INVESTMENTS continued Country of % interest % interest incorporation 2013 2012 Main activity Other operating and finance 9 Xstrata Limited formerly Xstrata plc UK 100.0 34.2 Holding Glencore Queensland Limited Australia 100.0 0.0 Holding Ploutos Australia Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 0.0 Holding Glencore Finance Bermuda Ltd Bermuda 100.0100.0 Finance Glencore Canada Financial Corp Canada 100.0 0.0 Finance Glencore Finance Europe S. A. Luxembourg 100.0100.0 Finance Finges Investment B. V. Netherlands 100.0100.0 Finance Glencore Schweiz AG Switzerland 100.0 0.0 Finance Glencore Group Funding Limited UAE 100.0100.0 Finance Glencore Funding LLC USA 100.0100.0 Finance Glencore Projects Pty Limited Australia 100.0 0.0 Operating Glencore Canada Corporation Canada 100.0 0.0 Operating Glencore Grain B. V. Netherlands 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore 100.0 100.0 Operating ST Shipping & Transport Pte Ltd Singapore 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore International AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore Commodities Ltd UK 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore Energy UK Ltd UK 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore UK Ltd UK 100.0 100.0 Operating Principal joint venture 10 Compania Minera Dona Ines fide Collahuasi Chile 44.0 0.00 Copper production 11 Principal joint operations Bulga Joint Venture Australia 68.3 0.00 Coal production Cumnock Joint Venture Australia 90.0 0.00 Coal production Foybrook Joint Venture Australia 67.5 0.00 Coal production Liddell Joint Venture Australia 67.5 0.00 Coal production Macquarie Coal Joint Venture Australia 80.0 0.00 Coal production Newlands, Collinsville, Abbot Point Joint Venture Australia 55.0 0.00 Coal production Oaky Creek Coal Joint Venture Australia 55.0 0.00 Coal production Pentland Joint Venture Australia 75.0 0.00 Coal production Ravensworth Underground Mine Joint Venture Australia 70.0 0.00 Coal production Redrock Joint Venture Australia 75.0 0.00 Coal production Rolleston Joint Venture Australia 75.0 0.00 Coal production Togara North Joint Venture Australia 70.0 0.00 Coal production Ulan Coal Mines Joint Venture Australia 90.0 0.00 Coal production United Joint Venture Australia 95.0 0.00 Coal production Wandoan Joint Venture Australia 75.0 0.00 Coal production 9 100% of the existing share capital of Xstrata was acquired on 2 May 2013.
Xstrata Limited is now a holding company of the acquired underlying operations of Xstrata.
10 The principal joint venture is accounted for as a joint arrangement as the shareholder agreement does not provide the Group the ability to solely or jointly control the entity.
11 Classified as joint operations under IFRS 11, as these joint arrangements are not structured through separate vehicles.
198 Country of % interest % interest incorporation 2013 2012 Main activity Principal joint operations continued Donkin Joint Venture Canada 75.0 0.00 Coal production ARM Coal Pty Ltd. South Africa 49.0 0.00 Coal production Goedgevonden Joint Venture South Africa 74.0 0.00 Coal production Merafe Pooling and Sharing Joint Venture South Africa 79.5 0.00 Ferro Alloys production Energia Austral Joint Venture Chile 49.0 0.00 Hydroelectric project El Aouj Joint Venture Mauritania 44.0 0.00 Iron ore production Kabanga Joint Venture Tanzania 50.0 0.00 Nickel production Mototolo Joint Venture South Africa 37.0 0.00 Platinum production Rhovan Pooling and Sharing Joint Venture South Africa 74.0 0.00 Vanadium production Principal associates Renova S. A. Argentina 33.3 33.3 Biofuel production Carbones del Cerrejon LLC Colombia 33.3 0.0 Coal production Port Kembla Coal Terminal Limited Australia 33.4 0.0 Coal Terminal Newcastle Coal Shippers Pty Ltd Australia 37.0 0.0 Coal Terminal Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Limited South Africa 26.7 7.2 Coal Terminal Polymet Mining Corp. Canada 28.6 25.7 Copper production Century Aluminum Company USA 46.6 46.6 Diversified production Russneft Group Russia 40.0 49.0 40.0 49.0 Oil production 14 Lonmin plc UK 24.5 0.0 Platinum production Noranda Income Fund Canada 25.0 0.0 Zinc production Compania Minera Antamina S. A. Peru 33.8 0.0 Zinc Copper production Recylex S. A. France 32.2 32.2 Zinc Lead production Other investments United Company Rusal plc Jersey 8.8 8.8 Aluminium production Volcan Compania Minera S. A.
A. Peru 7.3 7.3 Zinc production Nyrstar N. V. Belgium 0.0 7.8 Zinc Lead production 12 Represents the Group's economic interest in Century, comprising 41.8% 2012: 41.8% voting interest and 4.8% non-voting interest 2012: 4.8%.
Century is publicly traded on NASDAQ under the symbol CENX.
13 Although the Group holds more than 20% of the voting rights, it has limited management influence and therefore does not have significant influence.
14 Lonmin plcs business year end is 30 September and principal place of business is South Africa.
Lonmin is publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange under the symbol LMI.
L. 199 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Additional information In this section 201 Appendix 207 Shareholder information 208 Forward looking statements Glencor Glencore Xstrata e Xstrata Annual Report 2013 Annual Report 2013 200 200
