Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Forward looking statements This document contains statements that are, or may Neither Glencore Xstrata nor any of its associates or be deemed to be, forward looking statements which directors, officers or advisers, provides any representation, are prospective in nature.
These forward looking assurance or guarantee that the occurrence of the events statements may be identified by the use of forward expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements looking terminology, or the negative thereof such as in this document will actually occur.
You are cautioned plans, expects or does not expect, is expected, not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking continues, assumes, is subject to, budget, statements which only speak as of the date of this scheduled, estimates, aims, forecasts, risks, document.
Other than in accordance with its legal or intends, positioned, predicts, anticipates or does regulatory obligations including under the UK Listing not anticipate, or believes, or variations of such words Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the or comparable terminology and phrases or statements that Financial Conduct Authority and the Rules Governing the certain actions, events or results may, could, should, Listing ofSecurities on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong shall, would, might or will be taken, occur or be Limited and the Listing Requirements of the Johannesburg achieved.
Such statements are qualified in their entirety Stock Exchange Limited, Glencore Xstrata is not under any by the inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding obligation and Glencore Xstrata and its affiliates expressly future expectations.
Forward-looking statements are not disclaim any intention, obligation or undertaking to based on historical facts, but rather on current predictions, update or revise any forward looking statements, whether expectations, beliefs, opinions, plans, objectives, goals, as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
intentions and projections about future events, results of This document shall not, under any circumstances, create operations, prospects, financial condition and discussions any implication that there has been no change in the of strategy.
business or affairs of Glencore Xstrata since the date of this document or that the information contained herein By their nature, forward looking statements involve known iscorrect as at any time subsequent to its date.
and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond Glencore Xstratas control.
Forward looking No statement in this document is intended as a profit statements are not guarantees of future performance and forecast or a profit estimate and no statement in this may and often do differ materially from actual results.
document should be interpreted to mean that earnings Important factors that could cause these uncertainties perGlencore Xstrata share for the current or future include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the financial years would necessarily match or exceed the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 18 to 31. historical published earnings per Glencore Xstrata share.
This document does not constitute or form part of any offer or invitation to sell or issue, or any solicitation of any offer to purchase or subscribe for any securities.
The making of this document does not constitute a recommendation regarding any securities.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 208 4 Our business model Strategic report 6 Where we operate 8 Chief Executive Officers review 10 Strategic review 12 Key performance indicators 16 Sustainable development 18 Principal risks and uncertainties 32 Performance Financial review Metals and minerals Energy products Agricultural products 76 Chairmans introduction & Board of Directors Governance 80 Corporate governance report 92 Directors remuneration report 108 Directors report 117 Independent Auditors Report Financial statements 122 Consolidated statement of loss income 123 Consolidated statement of comprehensive loss income 124 Consolidated statement of financial position 125 Consolidated statement of cash flows 127 Consolidated statement of changes of equity 128 Notes to the financial statements 201 Appendix Additional information 207 Shareholder information 208 Forward looking statements Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com This report is printed on Cocoon Offset paper, made from 100% genuine fide-inked post-consumer waste which is FSC Certified and manufactured at a mill that is certified to the ISO 14001 environmental standard.
Printed by Principal Colour Principal Colour are ISO 14001 certified, Alcohol Free and FSC Chain of Custody certified.
The inks used are vegetable oil based.
Further details on our sustainability approach and performance can be found in our annual sustainability report and on our website www.
indd 4,6 17 03 2014 17:09 Annual Report 2013 Glencore Xstrata plc Baarermattstrasse 3 CH-6340 Baar Annual Report 2013 Switzerland Tel.
