MRERGMEP WXEXIQIRXW Independent auditors report to the members of The Go-Ahead Group plc We have audited the Group financial statements of The Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Go-Ahead Group plc for the year ended 29 June 2013 Companies Act 2006 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the In our opinion the information given in the Directors report for consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the the financial year for which the Group financial statements are consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
balance sheet, the consolidated cashflow statement and the Matters on which we are required to report related notes 1 to 27.
The financial reporting framework that by exception has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and We have nothing to report in respect of the following: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so law are not made: or that we might state to the Companys members those matters we have not received all the information and explanations we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for we require for our audit.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company, and the Companys members as a body, for our the Directors statement, set out on page 79, in relation audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
to going concern: Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor the part of the Corporate governance statement relating As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions statement set out on page 80, the Directors are responsible for of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being review: and satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial on Directors remuneration.
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Other matter Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc for the year ended Ethical Standards for auditors.
29 June 2013 and on the information in the Directors Scope of the audit of the financial statements remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Kathryn Barrow Senior statutory auditor policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor, London have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: 4 September 2013 the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial Notes: statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and 1.
The maintenance and integrity of The Go-Ahead Group plc website is the non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditor does not to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination for our report.
of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 29 June 2013 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
