Notes to the Parent Company financial statements 1.
Parent Company accounting policies For the defined contribution schemes, the amount charged Basis of preparation to the profit and loss account in respect of pension costs and The separate financial statements of the Company are other post-retirement benefits is the contributions payable in presented as required by the Companies Act 2006 and were the year.
Differences between contributions payable in the year approved for issue on 4 September 2013.
They have been and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom prepayments in the balance sheet.
Share based payments No profit and loss account is presented by the Company The Company has taken advantage of the transitional as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and provision of FRS 20 and has applied FRS 20 only to those the Company has taken the exemptions under FRS 1 not to options granted after 7 November 2002.
The cost of options present a cashflow statement.
granted to employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted, determined by The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available an external valuation using an appropriate pricing model.
In to parent companies under FRS 29 Financial Instruments: valuing equity-settled options, no account is taken of any Disclosures so as not to provide the information otherwise performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the required by the standard, as the Groups consolidated financial price of the shares of The Go-Ahead Group plc market statements, in which the Company is included, provide conditions, conditions not related to performance or service equivalent disclosures for the Group under IFRS 7 Financial non-vesting conditions and earnings per share criteria.
The cost of options is recognised in the profit and loss Tangible fixed assets account over the period from grant to vesting date, being Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed the date on which the relevant employees become fully cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in entitled to the award, with a corresponding increase in equity.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
The cumulative expense recognised, at each reporting date, Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the reflects the extent to which the period to vesting has expired shorter of their expected useful lives and the lease terms.
and the Directors best estimate of the number of options that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to Depreciation is charged to the profit and loss account based a market or non-vesting condition, be treated as vesting as on cost or valuation, less estimated residual value of each asset described above.
This includes any award where non-vesting evenly over its expected useful life as follows: conditions within the control of the Group or the employee Short leasehold land and buildings The life of the lease are not met.
Freehold buildings and No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately long leasehold land and buildings Over 10 to 100 years vest except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting Plant and equipment Over 3 to 15 years irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting The carrying values of items of property, plant and equipment condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in conditions are satisfied.
Where an equity-settled award is circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of If any such indication exists the assets are written down to their cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised for the award recoverable amount.
Deferred tax Investments The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries and associates are shown and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing at cost less provision for impairment.
differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation Pension benefits and accounting purposes.
The Company is a member of The Go-Ahead Group Pension Deferred taxation is provided on all timing differences which Plan operated by The Go-Ahead Group plc for the majority of have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
This defined benefit scheme is a multi-employer Except where otherwise required by accounting standards, scheme for which the individual employers share of the no timing differences are recognised in respect of: underlying assets and liabilities cannot be identified and accordingly the Company accounts for them as defined property revaluation surpluses where there is no contribution schemes.
commitment to sell the asset: gains on sale of assets where those gains have been rolled over into replacement assets: and deferred tax assets except to the extent that it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
8LI S %LIEH VSYT TPG %RRYEP 6ITSVX ERH %GGSYRXW MRERGMEP WXEXIQIRXW Deferred tax is calculated at the enacted rates at which it is For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any estimated the tax will be payable.
The deferred tax provision gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken is not discounted to net present value.
directly to the profit and loss account as they arise.
Uninsured liabilities Hedge accounting is discontinued when the derivative expires The Company limits its exposure to the cost of motor, or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or employer and public liability claims through insurance policies rollover, or otherwise no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
These provide individual claim cover, At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging subject to high excess limits and an annual aggregate stop instrument recognised in other comprehensive income is kept loss for total claims within the excess limits.
A provision is in equity until the forecast transaction occurs, at which point it recognised for the estimated cost to the Company to settle is taken to the profit and loss account or included in the initial claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date, carrying amount of the related non-financial asset as described subject to the overall stop loss.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive The estimation of this provision is made after taking appropriate income is transferred to the profit and loss account.
professional advice and is based on an assessment of the expected settlement on known claims, together with an Leasing commitments estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents Leases where a significant portion of all the risks and rewards occurring prior to the balance sheet date but that have not yet of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as been reported to the Company.
Rentals payable under operating leases, and the amortisation of lease incentives and initial direct costs in Treasury shares securing leases, are charged to the profit and loss account Re-acquired shares in the Company, which remain on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
uncancelled, are deducted from equity.
Consideration paid and the associated costs are also recognised in shareholders funds Debt as a separate reserve for own shares.
Any gain or loss on the Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds, being purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Companys shares is the fair value of the consideration received after deduction of transferred from the reserve for own shares to profit and loss.
Following initial recognition, the carrying amount is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Financial assets Amortisation of liabilities and any gains and losses arising on the Financial assets are accounted for in accordance with FRS 26. repurchase, settlement or other derecognition of debt are Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value, being the recognised directly in the profit and loss account.
transaction price plus directly attributable transaction costs.
The Company uses energy derivatives to hedge its risks associated with fuel price fluctuations.
Such derivatives are initially recognised at fair value by reference to market values for similar instruments, and subsequently remeasured at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Changes in the fair value of financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cashflows are recognised in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
When the cashflow hedge results in the recognition of a nonfinancial asset or liability, then at the time that asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the initial measurement of that nonfinancial asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the profit and loss account in the period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
