Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 29 June 2013 1.
Authorisation of financial statements Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty and statement of compliance with IFRSs The preparation of the financial statements requires The consolidated financial statements of The Go-Ahead management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions.
Group plc the Group for the year ended 29 June 2013 Although these judgements and estimates are based on were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on managements best knowledge, actual results ultimately 4 September 2013 and the balance sheet was signed on may differ from these estimates.
the Boards behalf by Andrew Allner and Keith Down.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a The Go-Ahead Group plc is a public limited company that is significant risk of causing material adjustments to the carrying incorporated, domiciled and has its registered office in England value of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are and Wales.
The Companys ordinary shares are publicly traded in relation to: on the London Stock Exchange and it is not under the control of any single shareholder.
the measurement and impairment testing of indefinite life intangible assets requires estimation of future cashflows and The consolidated financial statements of the Group have the selection of a suitable discount rate and growth rate, as been prepared in accordance with International Financial detailed in note 12: Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European the measurement of defined benefit pension obligations Union EU as they apply to the consolidated financial requires the estimation of future changes in salaries, inflation, statements of the Group for the year ended 29 June 2013, the expected return on assets and the selection of a suitable and applied in accordance with the provisions of the discount rate, as set out in note 26: Companies Act 2006.
The Group is required to comply with international accounting requirements under IAS 1 Presentation the measurement of uninsured liabilities is based on an of Financial Statements, except in extremely rare circumstances assessment of the expected settlement of known claims where management concludes that compliance would be so and an estimate of the cost of claims not yet reported misleading that it would conflict with the objective to present to the Group, as detailed in note 23: and fairly its financial statements.
On that basis, the Group has the measurement of franchise commitments, comprising departed from the requirements of IAS 19 Employee Benefits dilapidation provisions on vehicles, depots and stations and has accounted for its constructive but not legal obligations and also income claims from other rail franchise operators, for the Railways Pension Scheme RPS under the terms of its is based on managements assessment of most probable UK rail franchise agreements.
Details of the background and outcomes, supported where appropriate by valuations from rationale for this departure are provided in note 26. professional external advisers, as set out in note 23.
Summary of significant accounting policies The following judgements apart from those involving Basis of preparation estimates have had the most significant effect on amounts A summary of the Groups accounting policies applied recognised in the financial statements.
in preparing the financial statements for the year ended Contract and franchise accounting 29 June 2013 are set out below.
Judgements are made on an ongoing basis with regards The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds to recoverability of amounts due and the carrying value sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred of related assets and liabilities arising from contracts and thousand 0.1m except when otherwise indicated.
Regular forecasts are compiled on the outcome of these contracts and franchise arrangements, which require As noted above, the Group has taken the decision to depart assessments and judgements relating to the expected level from the requirements of IAS 19 so as to present fairly its of revenues and costs and, in cases where options exist, financial performance, position and cashflows in respect the life of the contract or franchise.
of its obligation for the RPS.
Taxation New standards Judgement is required when determining the provision for The following new standards or interpretations are mandatory taxes as the tax treatment of some transactions cannot be fully for the first time for the financial year ending 29 June 2013: determined until a formal resolution has been reached with the IAS 1 Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of items of other tax authorities.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is comprehensive income: probable that the benefit will be obtained.
Tax provisions are IAS 12 Amendments to IAS 12 Deferred Tax Recovery made if it is possible that a liability will arise.
The Group reviews of underlying assets: and each significant tax liability or benefit to assess the appropriate accounting treatment.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures amendments.
The amendment to IAS 1 requires the grouping of items presented in other comprehensive income so that items which may be reclassified to profit or loss in the future are presented separately from items that will never be reclassified.
The amendment affects presentation only.
Adoption of the new standards did not have a material impact on the financial performance or position of the Group.
8LI S %LIEH VSYT TPG %RRYEP 6ITSVX ERH %GGSYRXW
