Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Rail franchise asset This reflects the cost of the right to operate a rail franchise.
The net brought forward element of the franchise intangible is made up of 9.5m relating to the opening deficit in the RPS for all franchises and 3.6m relating to the cost of the intangible asset acquired on the handover of the franchise assets relating to the Southeastern rail franchise.
The intangible asset is being amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the franchises being between five and eight years.
Software costs Software costs capitalised exclude software that is integral to the related hardware.
Franchise bid costs A part of the Groups activities is the process of bidding for and securing franchises to operate rail services in the UK.
Directly attributable, incremental costs incurred after achieving preferred bidder status or entering into a franchise extension are capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised over the life of the franchise franchise extension.
Customer contracts This relates to the value attributed to customer contracts and relationships purchased as part of the Groups acquisitions.
The value is calculated based on the unexpired term of the contracts at the date of acquisition and is amortised over that period.
8LI S %LIEH VSYT TPG %RRYEP 6ITSVX ERH %GGSYRXW MRERGMEP WXEXIQIRXW Goodwill Goodwill acquired through acquisitions has been allocated to individual cash-generating units for impairment testing on the basis of the Groups business operations.
The carrying value of goodwill is tested annually for impairment by cash-generating unit and is as follows: 2013 2012 m m Metrobus 10.6 10.6 Go South Coast 28.6 28.6 Brighton & Hove 2.1 2.1 Plymouth Citybus 13.0 13.0 Go-Ahead London 10.5 10.5 Go North East 2.7 2.7 Konectbus 3.6 3.6 Thames Travel 2.7 2.7 Carousel 2.1 2.1 Anglian 3.3 3.3 Chambers 1.6 1.6 80.8 80.8 The recoverable amount of goodwill has been determined based on a value in use calculation for each cash-generating unit, using cashflow projections based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior management covering a three year period which have then been extended over an appropriate period.
The Directors feel that the extended period is justified because of the long term stability of the relevant income streams.
Growth has been extrapolated forward from the end of the three year forecasts over the extended period plus a terminal value using a growth rate of 2.25%-3.0% which reflects the Directors view of long term growth rates in each business.
The pre-tax cashflows for all cash-generating units have been discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 9.3% 2012: 10.0%, based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital, plus an appropriate risk premium for each cash-generating unit of 0.0-2.0% 2012: 0.0-2.0%.
The calculation of value in use for each cash-generating unit is most sensitive to the forecast operating cashflows, the discount rate and the growth rate used to extrapolate cashflows beyond the budget period.
The operating cashflows are based on assumptions of revenue, staff costs and general overheads.
These assumptions are influenced by several internal and external factors.
The Directors consider the assumptions used to be consistent with the historical performance of each unit and to be realistically achievable in light of economic and industry measures and forecasts.
We have conducted sensitivity analysis on our calculations and the assumption that would most likely lead to an impairment is a change in discount rate.
Using a 9.3% pre-tax discount rate the cash-generating unit with the least headroom is Anglian, which has headroom of 2.2m.
An increase in discount rates of 1.2% would be required to reduce the headroom to nil.
