Notes to the Parent Company financial statements 1.
Parent Company accounting policies For the defined contribution schemes, the amount charged Basis of preparation to the profit and loss account in respect of pension costs and The separate financial statements of the Company are other post-retirement benefits is the contributions payable in presented as required by the Companies Act 2006 and were the year.
Differences between contributions payable in the year approved for issue on 4 September 2013.
They have been and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom prepayments in the balance sheet.
Share based payments No profit and loss account is presented by the Company The Company has taken advantage of the transitional as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and provision of FRS 20 and has applied FRS 20 only to those the Company has taken the exemptions under FRS 1 not to options granted after 7 November 2002.
The cost of options present a cashflow statement.
granted to employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted, determined by The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available an external valuation using an appropriate pricing model.
In to parent companies under FRS 29 Financial Instruments: valuing equity-settled options, no account is taken of any Disclosures so as not to provide the information otherwise performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the required by the standard, as the Groups consolidated financial price of the shares of The Go-Ahead Group plc market statements, in which the Company is included, provide conditions, conditions not related to performance or service equivalent disclosures for the Group under IFRS 7 Financial non-vesting conditions and earnings per share criteria.
The cost of options is recognised in the profit and loss Tangible fixed assets account over the period from grant to vesting date, being Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed the date on which the relevant employees become fully cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in entitled to the award, with a corresponding increase in equity.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
The cumulative expense recognised, at each reporting date, Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the reflects the extent to which the period to vesting has expired shorter of their expected useful lives and the lease terms.
and the Directors best estimate of the number of options that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to Depreciation is charged to the profit and loss account based a market or non-vesting condition, be treated as vesting as on cost or valuation, less estimated residual value of each asset described above.
This includes any award where non-vesting evenly over its expected useful life as follows: conditions within the control of the Group or the employee Short leasehold land and buildings The life of the lease are not met.
Freehold buildings and No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately long leasehold land and buildings Over 10 to 100 years vest except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting Plant and equipment Over 3 to 15 years irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting The carrying values of items of property, plant and equipment condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in conditions are satisfied.
Where an equity-settled award is circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of If any such indication exists the assets are written down to their cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised for the award recoverable amount.
Deferred tax Investments The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries and associates are shown and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing at cost less provision for impairment.
differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation Pension benefits and accounting purposes.
The Company is a member of The Go-Ahead Group Pension Deferred taxation is provided on all timing differences which Plan operated by The Go-Ahead Group plc for the majority of have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
This defined benefit scheme is a multi-employer Except where otherwise required by accounting standards, scheme for which the individual employers share of the no timing differences are recognised in respect of: underlying assets and liabilities cannot be identified and accordingly the Company accounts for them as defined property revaluation surpluses where there is no contribution schemes.
commitment to sell the asset: gains on sale of assets where those gains have been rolled over into replacement assets: and deferred tax assets except to the extent that it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
8LI S %LIEH VSYT TPG %RRYEP 6ITSVX ERH %GGSYRXW
