Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 29 June 2013 1.
Authorisation of financial statements Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty and statement of compliance with IFRSs The preparation of the financial statements requires The consolidated financial statements of The Go-Ahead management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions.
Group plc the Group for the year ended 29 June 2013 Although these judgements and estimates are based on were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on managements best knowledge, actual results ultimately 4 September 2013 and the balance sheet was signed on may differ from these estimates.
the Boards behalf by Andrew Allner and Keith Down.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a The Go-Ahead Group plc is a public limited company that is significant risk of causing material adjustments to the carrying incorporated, domiciled and has its registered office in England value of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are and Wales.
The Companys ordinary shares are publicly traded in relation to: on the London Stock Exchange and it is not under the control of any single shareholder.
the measurement and impairment testing of indefinite life intangible assets requires estimation of future cashflows and The consolidated financial statements of the Group have the selection of a suitable discount rate and growth rate, as been prepared in accordance with International Financial detailed in note 12: Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European the measurement of defined benefit pension obligations Union EU as they apply to the consolidated financial requires the estimation of future changes in salaries, inflation, statements of the Group for the year ended 29 June 2013, the expected return on assets and the selection of a suitable and applied in accordance with the provisions of the discount rate, as set out in note 26: Companies Act 2006.
The Group is required to comply with international accounting requirements under IAS 1 Presentation the measurement of uninsured liabilities is based on an of Financial Statements, except in extremely rare circumstances assessment of the expected settlement of known claims where management concludes that compliance would be so and an estimate of the cost of claims not yet reported misleading that it would conflict with the objective to present to the Group, as detailed in note 23: and fairly its financial statements.
On that basis, the Group has the measurement of franchise commitments, comprising departed from the requirements of IAS 19 Employee Benefits dilapidation provisions on vehicles, depots and stations and has accounted for its constructive but not legal obligations and also income claims from other rail franchise operators, for the Railways Pension Scheme RPS under the terms of its is based on managements assessment of most probable UK rail franchise agreements.
Details of the background and outcomes, supported where appropriate by valuations from rationale for this departure are provided in note 26. professional external advisers, as set out in note 23.
Summary of significant accounting policies The following judgements apart from those involving Basis of preparation estimates have had the most significant effect on amounts A summary of the Groups accounting policies applied recognised in the financial statements.
in preparing the financial statements for the year ended Contract and franchise accounting 29 June 2013 are set out below.
Judgements are made on an ongoing basis with regards The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds to recoverability of amounts due and the carrying value sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred of related assets and liabilities arising from contracts and thousand 0.1m except when otherwise indicated.
Regular forecasts are compiled on the outcome of these contracts and franchise arrangements, which require As noted above, the Group has taken the decision to depart assessments and judgements relating to the expected level from the requirements of IAS 19 so as to present fairly its of revenues and costs and, in cases where options exist, financial performance, position and cashflows in respect the life of the contract or franchise.
of its obligation for the RPS.
Taxation New standards Judgement is required when determining the provision for The following new standards or interpretations are mandatory taxes as the tax treatment of some transactions cannot be fully for the first time for the financial year ending 29 June 2013: determined until a formal resolution has been reached with the IAS 1 Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of items of other tax authorities.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is comprehensive income: probable that the benefit will be obtained.
Tax provisions are IAS 12 Amendments to IAS 12 Deferred Tax Recovery made if it is possible that a liability will arise.
The Group reviews of underlying assets: and each significant tax liability or benefit to assess the appropriate accounting treatment.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures amendments.
The amendment to IAS 1 requires the grouping of items presented in other comprehensive income so that items which may be reclassified to profit or loss in the future are presented separately from items that will never be reclassified.
The amendment affects presentation only.
Adoption of the new standards did not have a material impact on the financial performance or position of the Group.
8LI S %LIEH VSYT TPG %RRYEP 6ITSVX ERH %GGSYRXW MRERGMEP WXEXIQIRXW Basis of consolidation Rental income The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial Rental income is generated from rental of surplus properties statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc and its subsidiaries and subleasing of rolling stock and railway infrastructure access.
It is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control Finance revenue is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated Interest on deposits is accrued on a time basis, by reference from the date on which control is transferred out of the to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest Group.
The financial statements of subsidiaries for use in the rate applicable.
consolidation are prepared for the same reporting year as Government grants the Parent Company and are based on consistent accounting Government grants are recognised at their fair value where policies.
All intra-group balances and transactions, including there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have and all attaching conditions will be complied with.
When the been eliminated in full.
grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised in the income Non-controlling interests represent the equity interests not statement over the period necessary to match on a systematic held by the Group in Govia Limited, a 65% owned subsidiary, basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate.
Where and are presented within equity in the consolidated balance the grant relates to a non-current asset, value is credited to sheet, separately from shareholders equity.
a deferred income account and is released to the income statement over the expected useful life of the relevant asset.
Interest in joint ventures The Group has a contractual arrangement with another party Uninsured liabilities which represents a joint venture.
This takes the form of an The Group limits its exposure to the cost of motor, employer agreement to share control over another entity, through an and public liability claims through insurance policies issued by interest in a company a jointly controlled entity.
These provide individual claim cover, subject to recognises its interest in the entitys assets and liabilities using high excess limits and an annual aggregate stop loss, for total the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, claims within the excess limits.
A provision is recognised for the interest in the joint venture is carried in the balance sheet the estimated cost to the Group to settle claims for incidents at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of occurring prior to the balance sheet date, subject to the overall its net assets, less distributions received and less any impairment stop loss.
in value of the investment.
The Group income statement The estimation of this provision is made after taking appropriate reflects the share of the jointly controlled entitys results after professional advice and is based on an assessment of the tax.
Where there has been a change recognised in other expected settlement on known claims, together with an comprehensive income of the jointly controlled entity, the estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents Group recognises its share of any such changes in the occurring prior to the balance sheet date but that have not yet consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
been reported to the Group by the insurer.
Revenue recognition Franchise bid costs Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable A key part of the Groups activities is the process of bidding that the income will flow to the Group and the value can for and securing franchises to operate rail services in the UK.
Revenue is measured at the fair value All franchise bid costs incurred prior to achieving preferred of the consideration received, excluding discounts, rebates, bidder status are treated as an expense in the income VAT and other sales taxes or duty.
statement irrespective of the ultimate outcome of the bid.
Rendering of services Directly attributable, incremental costs incurred after achieving The revenue of the Group comprises income from road preferred bidder status or entering into a franchise extension passenger transport and rail passenger transport.
are capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised over the life of the franchise franchise extension.
Bus revenue comprises amounts receivable generated from ticket sales and revenue generated from services provided Profit and revenue sharing support agreements on behalf of local transport authorities.
The rail companies have certain revenue and, historically, profit sharing agreements with the DfT.
An accrual is made within Rail revenue comprises amounts based principally on agreed amounts payable to central Government for the estimated cost models of route usage, by Railway Settlement Plan Limited to the Group of the relevant amounts accrued at the balance which administers the income allocation system within the UK sheet date.
Payments are charged to operating costs.
rail industry, in respect of passenger receipts and other related services such as rolling stock maintenance and commission on Revenue support is provided by the DfT typically in the last tickets sold.
In addition, franchise subsidy receipts from the DfT two years of a franchise.
Receipts are shown in revenue.
and local Passenger Transport Executives PTEs are treated as Exceptional items revenue, whereas franchise premium payments to the DfT are The Group presents as exceptional items on the face recognised in operating costs.
of the income statement those material items of revenue Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion or expense which, because of the size or the nature and of the customers journey or for other services based on the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, proportion of services provided.
The attributable share of merit separate presentation to allow better understanding season ticket or travel card income is deferred within liabilities of financial performance.
and released to the income statement over the life of the relevant season ticket or travel card.
[[[ KS ELIEH GSQ Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the Property, plant and equipment aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling on transition to IFRSs less accumulated depreciation and any interest and where the business combination is achieved in impairment in value.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the net identifiable Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in shorter of their expected useful lives and the lease terms.
exchange for the business combination.
Assets acquired and Depreciation is charged to the income statement based on cost liabilities assumed in transactions separate from the business or fair value, less estimated residual value of each asset, evenly combinations, such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships over its expected useful life as follows: or post-acquisition remuneration arrangements, are accounted for separately from the business combination in accordance Short leasehold land and buildings The life of the lease with their nature and applicable IFRSs.
Identifiable intangible Freehold buildings and Over 10 to 100 years assets, meeting either the contractual-legal or separability long leasehold land and buildings criterion, are recognised separately from goodwill.
Contingent liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised Bus vehicles Over 8 to 15 years if the acquisition-date fair value can be measured reliably.
Plant and equipment Over 3 to 15 years If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the The carrying values of items of property, plant and non-controlling interest and where the business combination equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirers changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may previously held equity interest in the acquiree is lower than the not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists, the assets fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the are written down to their recoverable amount.
fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business Non-current assets held for sale acquired, the difference is recognised in profit and loss.
Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
For the purpose of impairment Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date shall represent the lowest level within the entity at which the of classification.
goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and Business combinations and goodwill not be larger than an operating segment before aggregation.
a Business combinations since 4 July 2010 Business combinations since 4 July 2010 are accounted Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and for under IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised using part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
The choice of measurement of non-controlling interest, either at fair value values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable cash-generating unit retained.
assets, is determined on a transaction by transaction basis.
b Business combinations prior to 4 July 2010 Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included Acquisitions of businesses since 3 July 2004 are accounted in administrative expenses.
for under IFRS 3 Business Combinations using the purchase method.
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost, When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial being the excess of the costs of the business combination assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, meeting the conditions circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition for recognition under IFRS 3 at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded derivatives capitalised and carried as an asset on the balance sheet.
in host contracts by the acquiree.
If an acquisition gives rise to negative goodwill, this is Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the released immediately to the income statement.
acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition Subsequent changes in the amount recognised for any date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent contingent consideration are accounted for as adjustments consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability will to the consideration transferred in the business combination, be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit and with a corresponding adjustment to goodwill.
loss or in other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it should not be remeasured until it is finally within equity.
8LI S %LIEH VSYT TPG %RRYEP 6ITSVX ERH %GGSYRXW MRERGMEP WXEXIQIRXW Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost Software less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed Software, that is not integral to the related hardware, for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or is capitalised as an intangible asset and stated at cost less changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may amortisation and any impairment in value.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the is charged to the income statement evenly over its expected income statement and not subsequently reversed.
For the useful life of three to five years.
purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Inventories related cash-generating units monitored by management.
Stocks of fuel and engineering spares are valued at the lower Impairment of assets of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there and costs incurred in bringing the items to their present location is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such and condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an selling price less costs of sale.
asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the assets Cash and cash equivalents recoverable amount, being the higher of the assets or Cash and short term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value cash at bank and in hand, and short term deposits with an in use.
Value in use is determined for an individual asset, unless original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely the consolidated cashflow statement, cash and cash equivalents independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net and the estimated future cashflows are discounted to their of outstanding bank overdrafts.
present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks Financial assets and derivatives specific to the asset.
Financial assets are accounted for in accordance with IAS 39.
Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value, being the Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable transaction price plus directly attributable transaction costs.
amount, the asset is considered to be impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
The Group uses energy derivatives to hedge its risks associated with fuel price fluctuations, and interest derivatives to hedge its Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised risks associated with interest rate fluctuations.
Such derivatives in the income statement in those expense categories consistent are initially recognised at fair value by reference to market with the function of the impaired asset.
An assessment is made values for similar instruments, and subsequently re-measured at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that at fair value at each balance sheet date.
previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the recoverable Changes in the fair value of financial instruments that are amount is estimated.
A previously recognised impairment loss designated and effective as hedges of future cashflows are is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates recognised in other comprehensive income and the ineffective used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
last impairment loss was recognised.
When the cashflow hedge results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a liability, then at the time that asset The reinstated amount cannot exceed the carrying amount or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had the derivative that had previously been recognised in other no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior comprehensive income are included in the initial measurement years.
After such a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted of that non-financial asset or liability.
For hedges that do in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement in useful life.
the period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Franchise assets For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, Where the conditions relating to the award of a franchise any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken require the Group to assume legal responsibility for any pension directly to the income statement as they arise.
liability that exists at that point in time, the Group recognises a liability representing the fair value of the related net pension Hedge accounting is discontinued when the derivative expires deficit that the Group expects to fund during the franchise or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or term.
When a pension deficit exists at the start of the franchise, rollover, or otherwise no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
a corresponding intangible asset is recognised, reflecting a At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging cost in acquiring the right to operate the franchise.
If a pension instrument recognised in other comprehensive income is kept surplus exists at the start of the franchise, then a corresponding in equity until the forecast transaction occurs, at which point deferred income balance is recognised, representing a it is taken to the income statement or included in the initial government grant.
The intangible asset or deferred income carrying amount of the related non-financial asset as described balance is amortised through the income statement on above.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, a straight-line basis over the period of the franchise.
the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the income statement.
The carrying value of franchise assets is reviewed for impairment at the end of the first financial year following the award of the franchise and in other periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Bus schemes Interest-bearing loans and borrowings The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds, is determined separately for each plan using the projected unit being the fair value of the consideration received after credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the deduction of issue costs.
Following initial recognition the current period to determine current service cost and to the carrying amount is measured at amortised cost using the current and prior periods to determine the present value of effective interest method.
Amortisation of liabilities and any defined benefit obligation and is based on actuarial advice.
gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or The interest element of the defined benefit cost represents other fide-recognition of debt, are recognised directly in the the change in present value of obligations during the period, income statement.
and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening present value of the benefit obligation, taking into account Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where material changes in the obligation during the year.
The expected substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the return on plan assets is based on an assessment made at the asset have passed to the Group, and hire purchase contracts beginning of the year of long term market returns on scheme are capitalised in the balance sheet, with a corresponding assets, adjusted for the effect on the fair value of plan assets liability being recognised, and are depreciated over the of contributions received and benefits paid during the year.
shorter of their useful lives and the lease terms.
The Group has applied the option under IAS 19 to recognise The capital elements of future obligations under leases and actuarial gains and losses in the statement of comprehensive hire purchase contracts are included as liabilities in the income in the period in which they occur.
The difference between the expected return on plan assets The interest element of the rental obligations is charged to and the interest cost, along with the current service cost, is the income statement over the periods of the leases and hire recognised in the income statement within operating costs.
purchase contracts and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the balance sheet comprises the total for each plan of the present value Leases where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of the defined benefit obligation using a discount rate based of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as on high quality corporate bonds, less any past service cost not operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases, and yet recognised and less the fair value of plan assets out of which the amortisation of lease incentives and initial direct costs in the obligations are to be settled directly.
Fair value is based on securing leases, are charged to the income statement on a market price information and in the case of quoted securities straight-line basis over the lease term.
is the published bid price.
Provisions Past service costs are recognised in the income statement Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present on a straight-line basis over the vesting period or immediately legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is if the benefits have vested.
When a settlement eliminating probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle all obligations for benefits already accrued or a curtailment the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount can be reducing future obligations as a result of a material reduction made.
If the effect is material, expected future cashflows are in the scheme membership or a reduction in future entitlement discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where occurs, the obligation and related plan assets are remeasured appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain or loss recognised in the income statement during the period in which Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be the settlement or curtailment occurs.
reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when recovery is virtually certain.
The expense Contributions payable under defined contribution schemes relating to any provision is presented in the income statement are charged to operating costs in the income statement as net of any reimbursement.
Where discounting is used, the they fall due.
increase in the provision due to unwinding the discount is recognised as a finance cost.
Rail schemes Our train operating companies participate in the RPS, a defined Treasury shares benefit scheme which covers the whole of the UK rail industry.
Re-acquired shares in the Group, which remain uncancelled, This is partitioned into sections and the Group is responsible are deducted from equity.
Consideration paid and the associated for the funding of these schemes whilst it operates the relevant costs are also recognised in shareholders funds as a separate franchise.
In contrast to the pension schemes operated by reserve for own shares.
Any gain or loss on the purchase, sale, most businesses, the RPS is a shared cost scheme, which issue or cancellation of the Groups shares is transferred from means that costs are formally shared 60% employer and 40% the reserve for own shares to revenue reserves.
A liability or asset is recognised in line with other Retirement benefits defined benefit schemes in the Group, although this is offset The Group operates a number of pension schemes, both by a franchise adjustment so that the net liability or asset defined benefit and defined contribution.
The costs of these represents the deficit or surplus that the Group expects to are recognised in the income statement within operating costs.
fund or benefit from during the franchise term.
This represents As discussed below, the Group has invoked the provisions of a departure from IAS 19 so as to present fairly the Groups IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and has departed financial performance, position and cashflow in respect of its from the requirements of IAS 19 in respect of the Rail Pension obligations for the RPS.
8LI S %LIEH VSYT TPG %RRYEP 6ITSVX ERH %GGSYRXW MRERGMEP WXEXIQIRXW Share based payment transactions Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on The cost of options granted to employees is measured by temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted, tax base of assets and liabilities for taxation purposes and their determined by an external valuation using an appropriate carrying amounts in the financial statements.
It is provided for pricing model.
In granting equity-settled options, conditions are on all temporary differences, except: linked to some or all of the following: the price of the shares of on the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability The Go-Ahead Group plc market conditions : conditions not in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the related to performance or service non-vesting conditions : time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit and earnings per share criteria.
nor taxable profit or loss: and The cost of options is recognised in the income statement over in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with the period from grant to vesting date, being the date on which investments in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award, of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is with a corresponding increase in equity.
The cumulative probable that the temporary differences will not reverse expense recognised at each reporting date reflects the extent in the foreseeable future.
to which the period to vesting has expired and the Directors Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that best estimate of the number of options that will ultimately it is probable that the temporary differences will be reversed vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market or in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available non-vesting condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be This includes any award where non-vesting conditions within utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed the control of the Group or the employee are not met.
at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be vest except for awards where vesting is conditional upon available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting to be utilised.
irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting Tax relating to items recognised outside the income statement condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance is recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in conditions are satisfied.
Where an equity-settled award is equity in correlation with the underlying transaction.
Otherwise, cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of tax is recognised in the income statement.
cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
Taxation Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
