50 HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Independent auditors report to the members of HellermannTyton Group PLC continued Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed Areas of particular audit focus the area of focus We performed detailed testing on Recoverability of In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made a inventory and debtors the debtor and inventory provisions number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of to ensure the underlying accuracy significant accounting estimates that involved making Given the nature of the of the information used to calculate assumptions and considering future events that are inherently business there is focus the provisions.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by on the levels of working assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, capital.
With the We re-performed the provision forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures increases in inventory calculations to ensure they have been in the financial statements.
and trade debtors in the correctly calculated.
current year, we focused In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling We challenged management on any on the recoverability of and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered significant fluctuations from expected debtors and the necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
working capital levels in the different appropriate provisioning We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of locations and on amounts excluded for inventory.
controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
from provisioning or where specific provisions had been identified.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all We tested key reconciliations and Risk of management risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these override of internal manual journal entries.
We considered areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those controls whether there was evidence of bias matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to by the Directors in the significant Auditing standards require the financial statements is set out on pages 28 to 29. accounting estimates and judgements that we consider this.
relevant to the financial statements.
We also assessed the overall control environment of the Group and discussed with senior management the possibilities for management override of controls.
We performed testing to check the Risk of fraud in revenue recognition timing of revenue recognition.
We also performed testing of controls We focused on this area over the recording of revenue because of the potential for transactions and detailed substantive misstatement of revenue testing to supporting documentation recognition and its and cash to gain assurance over the presentation in the income occurrence of revenue.
We tested the statement due to the reconciliations between the revenue inherent complexities of systems used by the Group and its revenue recognition.
We also tested journal entries posted to revenue accounts to identify unusual or irregular items and obtained evidence to determine the rationale for the adjustments tested.
