O O O O O Ov v v v five e e e er r r r rv v v v viiiiie e e e ew w w w w S S S S S St t t t tr r r r ra a a a at t t t te e e e eg g g g g giiiiic c c c c r r r r r re e e e ep p p p p po o o o or r r r rt t t t t G G G G G Gov ov ov ov ove e e e er r r r rn n n n na a a a an n n n nc c c c ce e e e e Financial statements O O O O O Ot t t t th h h h he e e e er r r r r iiiiin n n n n nf f f f for or or or orma ma ma ma mat t t t tio io io io ion n n n n HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 51 the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent Going Concern with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 48, in relation to going concern.
We the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the have nothing to report having performed our review.
Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group have adequate resources to remain Other information in the Annual Report in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially ability to continue as a going concern.
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Opinion on matter prescribed by the Companies is otherwise misleading.
Act 2006 We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and Responsibilities for the financial statements and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
the audit Other matters on which we are required to report Our responsibilities and those of the Directors by exception As explained more fully in the statement of Directors responsibilities, set out on page 48, the Directors are responsible Adequacy of information and explanations received for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion we have not received all the information and Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs report arising from this responsibility.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Directors remuneration This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report if, in our for the Companys members as a body in accordance with opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other law have not been made, and under the Listing Rules we are purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume required to review certain elements of the report to shareholders responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to by the Board on Directors remuneration.
We have no exceptions whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save to report arising from these responsibilities.
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Corporate Governance Statement Other matter Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys statements of HellermannTyton Group PLC for the period ended compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 31 December 2013 and on the information in the Directors Code the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
On page 48 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual Rosemary Shapland Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable Senior Statutory Auditor and provides the information necessary for members to assess the for and on behalf of  LLP Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On pages 28 Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors to 29, as required by C3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has Gatwick set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs 28 February 2014 UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
