90 HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Independent auditors report to the Members of HellermannTyton Group PLC In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Report on the Parent Company financial in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the statements audited Parent Company financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or Our opinion materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Company's the implications for our report.
affairs as at 31 December 2013: Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies have been properly prepared in accordance with United Act 2006 Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the In our opinion: Companies Act 2006. the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say below.
Report for the financial year for which the Parent Company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent What we have audited Company financial statements: and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has The Parent Company financial statements, which are prepared by been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act HellermannTyton Group PLC, comprise: 2006. the Parent Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2013: and Other matters on which we are required to report the notes to the Parent Company financial statements, which by exception include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and United Kingdom Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted if, in our opinion: Accounting Practice.
we have not received all the information and explanations we In applying the financial reporting framework, the Directors have require for our audit: or made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates.
In making such estimates, they adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent have made assumptions and considered future events.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial agreement with the accounting records and returns.
statements and are identified as audited.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
What an audit of financial statements involves Directors remuneration We conducted our audit in accordance with International Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report if, in our Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and law have not been made.
We have no exceptions to report arising disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable from this responsibility.
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
