financial statements 5. excePtional items anD intangiBle amortisation exceptional items are disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement to assist in the understanding of the groups underlying performance.
2013 2012 $m $m acquisition and integration-related expenses 3 other costs: severance expenses 1 4 plant remediation costs 24 7 impairment losses 10 other claims provisions 11 Exceptional items included in operating profit 46 14 impairment of investment in associates 16 Exceptional items included in profit 62 14 intangible amortisation 15 13 Exceptional items and intangible amortisation 77 27 tax effect 15 7 Impact on profit for the year 62 20 intangible amortisation comprises the amortisation of intangible assets other than software Acquisition and integration-related expenses in previous periods, acquisition and integration-related expenses were costs incurred in the integration of msi, Promopharm and savanna.
acquisition-related expenses are included in the unallocated corporate expenses while integration-related expenses are included in segment results.
acquisition-related expenses mainly comprise third party consulting services, legal and professional fees.
acquisition costs of $nil 2012: $2 million have been classified as investing activities in the cash flow statement.
Other costs severance expenses in 2013 related to restructuring of management teams in mena 2012: across all three operating regions.
Plant remediation costs represent write-down of inventory of some products and on-going costs incurred for compliance work at our eatontown facility in response to observations made by the us fDa.
remediation costs are included in other operating expenses.
impairment losses are related to the write off of intangible product rights of $8 million 2012: $nil, in addition to the write off of certain property, plant and equipment of $2 million 2012: $nil.
impairment of intangible assets is included in research and development.
impairment offixed assets is included in other operating expenses.
other claims provisions relate to the groups best estimate of the ultimate settlement amount of claims outstanding in the current period andis included in other operating expenses.
Impairment of investment in associates During 2011, Hikma acquired a minority interest in unimark remedies limited unimark in india for a cash consideration of $34 million.
unimark manufactures active pharmaceutical ingredients aPi and aPi intermediates.
unimark has been impacted by a decline in prices initsaPi manufacturing business and is in the process of restructuring its corporate debt.
During the year, we incurred an impairment charge of$16 million in respect of our investment.
We expect that unimark will be able to successfully manage its current issues.
