Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 notes to the consolidated financialstatements 1. aDoPtion of neW anD reviseD stanDarDs the following new and revised standards and interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements, however, may impact the accounting for future transactions and arrangements.
ifrs 7 offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities ifrs 10 consolidated financial statements ifrs 11 Joint arrangements ifrs 12 disclosure of interests in other entities ifrs 13 fair value measurement ias 1 presentation of items of other comprehensive income ias 19 revised 2011 employee benefits ias 27 revised 2011 separate financial statements ias 28 revised 2011 investments in associates annual improvements to ifrss 20092011 cycle minor amendments at the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the eu : ifrs 9 financial instruments amendments to ifrs 10, 12 and ias27 investment entities added disclosure requirements for entities becoming, or ceasing to be, investment entities, as defined in ifrs 10 amendments to ias 19 defined benefit plans: employee contributions amendments to ias 32 offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities amendments to ias 36 recoverable amount disclosures for non-financial assets amendments to ias 39 novation of derivatives and continuation of hedge accounting ifric 21 levies the Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the group in future periods.
2. significant accounting Policies general information Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc is a company incorporated in the united kingdom under the companies act.
the address of the registered office is given on the page 176.
Basis of accounting Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plcs consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with international financial reporting standards ifrss issued by the international accounting standards Board iasB.
the financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with ifrss adopted for use in the european union and, therefore, comply with article 4 of the eu ias regulation.
the financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the revaluation to market of certain financial assets and liabilities.
the groups previously published financial statements were also prepared in accordance with ifrss issued by the iasB and also in accordance with ifrss adopted for use in the european union.
the presentational and functional currency of Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc is the us dollar as the majority of the companys business isconducted in us dollars.
going concern the Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting inpreparing the financial statements see page 116.
