Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 notes to the consolidated financialstatements 1. aDoPtion of neW anD reviseD stanDarDs the following new and revised standards and interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements, however, may impact the accounting for future transactions and arrangements.
ifrs 7 offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities ifrs 10 consolidated financial statements ifrs 11 Joint arrangements ifrs 12 disclosure of interests in other entities ifrs 13 fair value measurement ias 1 presentation of items of other comprehensive income ias 19 revised 2011 employee benefits ias 27 revised 2011 separate financial statements ias 28 revised 2011 investments in associates annual improvements to ifrss 20092011 cycle minor amendments at the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the eu : ifrs 9 financial instruments amendments to ifrs 10, 12 and ias27 investment entities added disclosure requirements for entities becoming, or ceasing to be, investment entities, as defined in ifrs 10 amendments to ias 19 defined benefit plans: employee contributions amendments to ias 32 offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities amendments to ias 36 recoverable amount disclosures for non-financial assets amendments to ias 39 novation of derivatives and continuation of hedge accounting ifric 21 levies the Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the group in future periods.
2. significant accounting Policies general information Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc is a company incorporated in the united kingdom under the companies act.
the address of the registered office is given on the page 176.
Basis of accounting Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plcs consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with international financial reporting standards ifrss issued by the international accounting standards Board iasB.
the financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with ifrss adopted for use in the european union and, therefore, comply with article 4 of the eu ias regulation.
the financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the revaluation to market of certain financial assets and liabilities.
the groups previously published financial statements were also prepared in accordance with ifrss issued by the iasB and also in accordance with ifrss adopted for use in the european union.
the presentational and functional currency of Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc is the us dollar as the majority of the companys business isconducted in us dollars.
going concern the Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting inpreparing the financial statements see page 116.
130 financial statements 2. significant accounting Policies continueD Basis of consolidation the consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc the company and entities controlled by the company together the group.
an investor controls an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
on acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
any excess of the aggregate of consideration, non-controlling interest and fair value of previously held equity interest over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries may initially be measured at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount initially recognised plus the non-controlling interests share of subsequent changes in equity.
total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the noncontrolling interests having a deficit balance.
changes in the groups interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
the carrying amount of the groups interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries.
any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received isrecognised directly in equity and attributed to the equity shareholders of the parent.
the results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used in line with those used by the group.
all intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business combinations the acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method.
the consideration is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
acquisition-related costs are recognised in the consolidated income statement as incurred.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisition-date fair value.
subsequent changes in those fair values can only affect the measurement of goodwill where they occur during the measurement period and are as a result of additional information becoming available about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
all other changes are dealt with in accordance with relevant ifrss.
this will usually mean that changes in the fair value of consideration are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the groups previously-held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date i. e. the date the group attains control and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under ifrs 3 are recognised attheir fair value at the acquisition date.
goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of consideration, non-controlling interest and fair value of previously held equity interest over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired.
if, after reassessment, the groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost ofthe consideration, the excess is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
the non-controlling interest in the acquiree is initially measured at the non-controlling interests proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
if the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period see below, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
the measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the group obtains complete information about facts andcircumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject to a maximum of one year.
131 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIALSTATEMENTS Continued 2. significant accounting Policies continueD investment in associates an associate is an entity over which the group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee revenue but is not control or joint control over those policies.
the results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting, except when the investment is classified as held for sale, in which case it is accounted for in accordance with ifrs 5 non-current assets Held for sale and Discontinued operations.
under the equity method, investments in associates are carried in the consolidated balance sheet at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
losses of an associate in excess of the groups interest in that associate which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the groups net investment in the associate are recognised only to the extent that the group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
any excess of the cost of acquisition over the groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the associate recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
the goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
any excess of the groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Where a group entity transacts with an associate of the group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest intherelevant associate.
intangible assets an intangible asset is recognised if: it is identifiable: it is probable that the expected future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow to the group: and the cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
the probability of expected future economic benefits is assessed using reasonable and supportable assumptions that represent managements best estimate of the set of economic conditions that will exist over the useful life of the asset.
Judgement is used to assess the degree of certainty attached to the flow of future economic benefits that are attributable to the use of the asset on the basis of the evidence available at the time of initial recognition, giving greater weight to external evidence.
expenditures on research and development activities are charged to the consolidated income statement, except only when the criteria for recognising an intangible asset are met, which is usually when approval from the relevant regulatory authority is considered probable.
a Goodwill: arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset at the date that control is acquired the acquisition date.
goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest if any in the entity over the net of the acquisition-date fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
if, after reassessment, the groups interest in the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any, the excess is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement as a bargain purchase gain.
for the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the groups cash-generating units.
cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
if the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount ofeach asset in the unit.
an impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
on disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the consolidated income statement on disposal.
b Marketing rights: are amortised over their useful lives commencing in the year in which the rights first generate sales see note 14. c Customer relationships: represent the value attributed to the long-term relationships held with existing customers at the date of acquisition andare amortised over their useful economic life.
d Product-related intangibles: i Product files and under-licensed products are assigned indefinite useful lives which are reviewed for impairment at least annually: and ii under-licence agreements and product dossiers are amortised over their useful lives from the date of acquisition.
intangible assets recognised from development activities are amortised over their useful economic life.
132 financial statements 2. significant accounting Policies continueD e Purchased software: is amortised over the useful economic life when the asset is available for use.
f In process research and development recognised on acquisition: is amortised over the useful life from the date of acquisition.
g Trade name: some trade names are assigned indefinite useful lives and others have finite useful lives over which they are amortised where applicable, in the period from acquisition.
foreign currencies the individual financial statements of each group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
for the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each group company are expressed in us dollars, the functional currency of Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc and the presentational currency of the consolidated financial statements.
transactions in currencies, other than a companys functional currency, are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
at each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
exchange differences arising on retranslation of monetary assets and liabilities are recognised in the consolidated income statement in the period in which they arise.
on consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as other comprehensive income and transferred to the groups translation reserve.
such cumulative translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
revenue recognition Dynamic market changes can generate uncertainty as to the ultimate net selling price of a pharmaceutical product and, therefore, revenue cannot always be measured reliably at the point when the product is supplied or made available to external customers.
the company has, therefore, expanded its revenue recognition policy as shown below: this had no impact on revenue recognised in prior periods.
revenue is recognised in the consolidated income statement when goods or services are supplied or made available to external customers against orders received and when title and risk of loss have passed.
revenue represents the amounts receivable after the deduction of discounts, value added tax, other sales taxes, allowances given, provisions for chargebacks and accruals for estimated future rebates and returns.
the methodology and assumptions used to estimate rebates and returns are monitored and adjusted regularly in light of contractual and historical information.
if the ultimate net selling price cannot be reliably measured, revenue recognition is deferred until a reliable measurement can be made.
Deferred revenue is included in other current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
chargebacks the provision for chargebacks is the most significant and complex estimate used in the recognition of revenue.
in the us the group sells its products directly to wholesale distributors, generic distributors, retail pharmacy chains and mail-order pharmacies.
the group also sells its products indirectly to independent pharmacies, managed care organisations, hospitals, and group purchasing organisations, collectively referred to as indirect customers.
the group enters into agreements with its indirect customers to establish pricing for certain products.
the indirect customers then independently select a wholesaler from which they purchase the products at agreed-upon prices.
the group will provide credit to the wholesaler for the difference between the agreed-upon price with the indirect customer and the wholesalers invoice price.
this credit is called a chargeback.
the provision for chargebacks is based on historical sell-through levels by the groups wholesale customers to the indirect customers, and estimated wholesaler inventory levels.
as sales are made to large wholesale customers, the group continually monitors the reservefor chargebacks and makes adjustments when it believes that actual chargebacks may differ from estimated reserves.
133 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIALSTATEMENTS Continued 2. significant accounting Policies continueD returns in certain countries, the group has a product return policy that allows customers to return the product within a specified period prior to and subsequent to the expiration date.
Provisions for returns are recognised in the period in which the underlying sales are recognised, as a reduction of sales revenue.
the group estimates its provision for returns based on historical experience, representing managements best estimate.
While such experience has allowed for reasonable estimations in the past, history may not always be an accurate indicator of future returns.
the group continually monitors the provisions for returns and makes adjustments when it believes that actual product returns may differ from established reserves.
rebates in certain countries, rebates are granted to healthcare authorities and under contractual arrangements with certain customers.
Products sold inthe united states are covered by various programmes such as medicaid under which products are sold at a discount.
the group estimates its provision for rebates based on current contractual terms and conditions as well as historical experience, changes to business practices and credit terms.
While such experience has allowed for reasonable estimations in the past, history may not always be an accurate indicator of future rebate liabilities.
the group continually monitors the provisions for rebates and makes adjustments when it believes that actual rebates may differ from established reserves.
all rebates are recognised in the period in which the underlying sales are recognised asareduction of sales revenue.
Price adjustments Price adjustments, also known as shelf stock adjustments, are credits issued to reflect decreases in the selling prices of the groups products that customers have remaining in their inventories at the time of the price reduction.
Decreases in selling prices are discretionary decisions made by group management to reflect competitive market conditions.
amounts recorded for estimated shelf stock adjustments are based upon specified terms with direct customers, estimated declines in market prices and estimates of inventory held by customers.
the group regularly monitors these and other factors and re-evaluates the reserve as additional information becomes available.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
to the extent that variable rate borrowings are used to finance a qualifying asset and are hedged in an effective cash flow hedge of interest rate risk, the effective portion of the derivative is deferred in equity and released to the consolidated income statement when the qualifying asset impacts profit or loss.
to the extent that fixed rate borrowings are used to finance a qualifying asset and are hedged in an effective fair value hedge of interest rate risk, the capitalised borrowing costs reflect the hedged interest rate.
investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings, pending their expenditure on qualifying assets, is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
all other borrowing costs are recognised in the consolidated income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Dividend income income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
leasing The Group as lessee leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
all other leases are classified as operating leases.
rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the operating lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basisover the lease term.
134 financial statements 2. significant accounting Policies continueD assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
the corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a capital lease obligation.
lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
government grants government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to the consolidated income statement over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
retirement benefit costs Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the groups obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme.
tax the group provides for income tax according to the laws and regulations prevailing in the countries where the group operates.
furthermore, thegroup computes and records deferred tax assets and liabilities according to ias 12 income taxes.
the tax expense represents the sum ofthetax currently payable and deferred tax.
the tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
the tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the consolidated income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
the groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
the carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the consolidated income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, inwhich case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities ona net basis.
share-based payment transactions employees including Directors of the group receive remuneration in the form of share-based payments, whereby employees render services inexchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled transactions.
135 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIALSTATEMENTS Continued 2. significant accounting Policies continueD share-based payments ifrs 2 share-Based Payments requires an expense to be recognised when the group buys goods or services in exchange for shares or rights over shares share-based payments or in exchange for other equivalent assets.
the cost of share-based payments transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which the sharebased payments are granted.
the fair value of the equity-settled stock options scheme is determined using a binomial model.
the fair value of the management incentive plan is determined based on the share price as at the date of grant discounted by dividend yield.
the fair value of the longterm incentive plan is determined using a monte carlo valuation model, for long-term incentive plan awards made from 2010, 50% of the award is subject to a tsr performance condition which is valued by applying the monte carlo simulation methodology, the remaining 50% of theaward is subject to financial metrics and valued by applying a Black-scholes model.
the expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exerciserestrictions, and behavioural considerations further details are given in note 36. in valuing share-based payments, no account is taken ofany performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the market price of the shares of Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc.
the cost of share-based payments is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the groups estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest.
the group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest except for failure to satisfy a market vesting condition and the impact of the revision of the original estimates, ifany, is recognised in the consolidated income statement, such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
Where the terms of a share-based payments award are modified, as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modified.
in addition, an expense is recognised for any increase in the value of the transaction as a result of the modification, as measured at the modification date.
Where a share-based payments award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
However, if a new award is substituted for acancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described above.
the dilutive effect of outstanding share-based payments is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment have been stated at cost on acquisition and are depreciated on a straight-line basis except for land at the following depreciation rates: buildings 2% to 4% vehicles 10% to 20% machinery 5% to 33% fixtures and equipment 6% to 33% a units of production method of depreciation is applied to operations in their start-up phase, such as the lyophilised manufacturing plant in Portugal, as this reflects the expected pattern of consumption of the future economic benefits embodied in the assets.
When these assets are fully utilised, a straight-line method of depreciation is applied.
Projects under construction are not depreciated until construction has been completed and assets are considered ready for use.
any additional costs that extend the useful life of property, plant and equipment are capitalised.
Property, plant and equipment which are financed by leases giving Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, are capitalised at the lower of the fair value of the asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments at the inception of the lease, and depreciated in the same manner as other property, plant and equipment over the shorter of the lease term of their useful life.
Whenever the recoverable amount of an asset is impaired, the carrying value is reduced to the recoverable amount and the impairment loss is taken to the consolidated income statement.
Projects under construction are carried at cost, less any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation of these assets, on the same basis as other property assets, commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
the gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carryingamount of the asset and is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
136 financial statements 2. significant accounting Policies continued inventories inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Purchased products are stated at acquisition cost, including all additional attributable costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition.
the cost of own-manufactured products comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and any overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
in the balance sheet, inventory is primarily valued at standard cost, which approximates to historical cost determined on amoving average basis, and this value is used to determine the cost of sales in the consolidated income statement.
net realisable value represents the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less all estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Provisions are madefor inventories with net realisable value lower than cost or for slow-moving inventory.
financial instruments financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the groups balance sheet when the group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets all financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date, where the purchase or sale of a financial asset is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the financial asset within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at fair value, plus transaction costs, except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through the consolidated income statement, which are initially measured at fair value.
financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss fVtPl, held-to-maturity investments, available-for-sale afs financial assets and loans and receivables.
the classification depends onthenatureand purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Effective interest method the effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a debt instrument and of allocating interest income over the relevant period.
the effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts including all fees and points paid orreceived that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts through the expected lifeofthe debt instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
income is recognised on an effective interest basis for debt instruments other than those financial assets classified as at fVtPl.
Loans and receivables trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables.
loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Available for sale financial assets listed shares and listed redeemable notes held by the group that are traded in an active market are classified as being afs and are stated at fair value.
gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income, with the exception of impairment losses, interest calculated using the effective interest method and foreign exchange gains and losses on monetary assets, which are recognised directly inthe consolidated income statement.
Where the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the investments revaluation reserve is reclassified to the consolidated income statement.
the groups investments in unlisted shares that are not traded in an active market and the fair value of which cannot be reliably measured are stated at cost, less a provision for anyimpairment loss, which is taken to the consolidated income statement.
Financial liabilities and equity debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of thecontractual arrangement.
Financial liabilities financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at fVtPl or other financial liabilities.
137 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIALSTATEMENTS Continued 2. significant accounting Policies continueD Other financial liabilities other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
the effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
the effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life ofthefinancial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are used to manage the groups exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
the principal derivative instruments used by the group are interest rate swaps and foreign exchange forward and option contracts.
the group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Hedge accounting the group designates certain hedging instruments, in respect of interest rate and foreign currency risk, as cash flow hedges.
Hedges of foreign exchange risk on firm commitments are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
at the inception of the hedge relationship, the entity documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an on-going basis, the group documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
note 30 sets out details of the fair values of the derivative instruments used for hedging purposes.
Cash flow hedge the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are reclassified to the consolidated income statement in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the consolidated income statement, in the same line of the income statement asthe recognised hedged item.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
any gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income at that time is accumulated in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the consolidated income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
cash and cash equivalents cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
equity instruments equity instruments issued by the group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligations and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding goodwill at each balance sheet date, the group reviews the carrying amounts of its property, plant and equipment and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
if any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
an intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment at least annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
