financial statements shareholder information 2014 financial calendar further information on this market, its trading systems and current trading in Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc shares can be found on the 23 april 2013 final dividend ex-dividend date london stock exchange website www.
25 april 2013 final dividend record date 15 may annual General meeting Global Depository Receipts the company also has listed global Depository receipts gDrs 22 may 2013 final dividend paid to shareholders on the nasdaq Dubai.
they are listed under ePic Hik and isin 20 august 2014 interim results and interim dividendannounced us4312882081.
further information on the nasdaq Dubai, its trading 27 august 2014 interim dividend ex-dividend date systems and current trading in Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc gDrs can 29 august 2014 interim dividend record date be found on the website www.
26 september 2014 interim dividend paid to shareholders American Depository Receipts ADRs Provisional dates Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc has an aDr programme for which Bny mellon acts as Depositary.
one aDr equates to two Hikma ordinary shareholding enquiries shares.
aDrs are traded as a level 1 otc programme under the enquiries or information concerning existing shareholdings should symbol HkmPy.
enquiries should be made to: bedirected to the companys registrars, capita registrars either: Bny mellon shareowner services in writing to shareholder services, capita registrars, the registry, Po Box 358516 34Beckenham road, Beckenham, kent Br3 4tu: Pittsburgh, Pa 15252-8516 by telephone from within the uk on 0870 162 3100: tel: 1 201 680 6825 by telephone from outside the uk on 44 208 639 2157: or tel: 1 888 Bny aDrs toll-free within the us e-mail: shrrelations@bnymellon.
com through the website www.
shareholder fraud the financial conduct authority has issued a number of warnings Dividend payments currency toshareholders regarding boiler room scams.
over the last year many the company declares dividends in us Dollars.
unless you have companies have become aware that shareholders have received elected otherwise, you will receive your dividend in us Dollars.
unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment shareholders can opt to receive the dividend in Pounds sterling or matters.
these are typically from overseas-based brokers who Jordanian Dinar.
the registrar retains records of the dividend currency target uk shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn for each shareholder and only changes them at the shareholders out to beworthless or high-risk shares in us or uk investments.
if you wish to change the currency in which you receive your these operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
these brokers dividend please contact the registrars.
can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
shareholders are Dividend payments Bank transfer advised to be very cautious of unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares shareholders who currently receive their dividend by cheque can at a discount or offers of free company reports.
if you receive any request a dividend mandate form from the registrar and have their unsolicited investment advice: dividend paid direct into their bank account on the same day as the obtain the correct name of the person and organisations: dividend is paid.
the tax voucher is sent direct to the shareholders registered address.
check they are authorised by the fca by looking the firm up on www.
uk register: Dividend payments international Payment system if you are an overseas shareholder the registrar is now able to pay report the matter to the fca, either by calling 0800 111 6768 or visit dividends in several foreign currencies for an administrative charge www.
uk consumers scams: of5.00, which is deducted from the payment.
contact the registrar if the caller persists, hang up.
Details of the share dealing facilities sponsored by the company are Website included in company mailings and are on the company website.
Press releases, the share price and other information on the group the companys website is www.
com and the registered areavailable on the companys website www.
office is 13 Hanover square, london W1s 1HW.
London Stock Exchange the companys ordinary shares are admitted to the official list of thelondon stock exchange.
they are listed under ePic Hik, seDol B0lcW08 gB and isin gB00B0lcW083.
