financial statements 2. significant accounting Policies continueD recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
in assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
if the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease totheextent that it does not exceed the previous revaluation surplus, and any excess is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
a reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
3. critical accounting JuDgements anD key sources of estimation uncertainty in the application of the groups accounting policies, which are described in note 2, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
the estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
actual results may differ from these estimates.
the estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an on-going basis.
revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
the groups Directors believe that, among others, the following accounting policies that involve Directors judgements and estimates arethemost critical to understanding and evaluating the groups financial results.
revenue recognition the groups revenue recognition policies require Directors to make a number of estimates, with the most significant relating to chargebacks, product returns, rebates and price adjustments see note 2 which vary by product arrangements and buying groups.
if the ultimate net selling price cannot be reliably measured, revenue recognition is deferred until a reliable measurement can be made.
Deferred revenue is included in other current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
accounts receivable and bad debts the group estimates, based on its historical experience, the level of debts that it believes will not be collected.
such estimates are made when collection of the full amount of the debt is no longer probable.
these estimates are based on a number of factors including specific customer issues and industry, economic and political conditions.
Bad debts are written-off when identified.
goodwill and intangible assets the critical areas of judgement in relation to goodwill and intangible assets are the useful economic lives of the product-related intangibles, thegrowth rates used in the impairment tests and the discount rates used to determine net present values.
contingent liabilities the promotion, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products and medical devices is highly regulated and the operations of market participants, such as Hikma, are closely supervised by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, including the fDa and the us Department of Justice.
as a result, the group is subject to certain on-going investigations by governmental agencies as well as other various legal proceedings considered typical to its business relating to employment, product liability and commercial disputes.
often this litigation is subject to substantial uncertainties, and therefore the probability of a loss, if any, being incurred or an estimate of the amount of any loss is difficult to ascertain.
consequently, it is often not practicable to make a reasonable estimate of the possible financial effect, if any, that could arise from the ultimate resolution of legal proceedings.
in such cases, where the group believes that disclosure is required, information regarding the nature and facts ofthe case is disclosed.
for current matters see note 35.
