FINANCIAL STATEmENTS Notes to the financial statements For the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013 1.
GENERAL INFORmATION Home Retail Group plc the Company, which is the ultimate parent company of Home Retail Group the Group, is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group is a home and general merchandise retailer.
These consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 1 May 2013.
The financial year represents the 52 weeks to 2 March 2013 prior financial year 53 weeks to 3 March 2012.
Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee Interpretations IFRICs as adopted by the European Union.
They also comply with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs.
BASIS OF PREPARATION The Group consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand.
They are prepared on a going concern basis and under the historic cost basis modified for the revaluation of certain financial instruments, share-based payments and post-employment benefits.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out in note 3.
Unless otherwise stated, these policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consist of the financial statements of the ultimate parent company Home Retail Group plc, entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries and the Groups share of its interests in associates.
The accounting policies of subsidiaries are consistent with the policies adopted by the Group for the purposes of the Groups consolidation.
Subsidiaries A subsidiary is an entity whose operating and financing policies are controlled by the Group.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control was transferred to the Group.
Subsidiaries cease to be consolidated from the date that the Group no longer has control.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Home Retail Group companies have been eliminated on consolidation.
Associates Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control.
The equity method is used to account for investments in associates and investments are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups share of net assets of its associates is included on the Group balance sheet.
The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in its income statement.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying value of the investment.
The carrying amount of an investment in an associate is tested for impairment by comparing its recoverable amount to its carrying amount whenever there is an indication that the investment may be impaired.
Business combinations Under the requirements of IFRS 3, all business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of business acquisitions is the aggregate of fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the acquirer.
The cost of a business combination is allocated at the acquisition date by recognising the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that satisfy the recognition criteria at their fair values at that date.
The acquisition date is the date on which the acquirer effectively obtains control of the acquiree.
Intangible assets are recognised if they meet the definition of an intangible asset contained in IAS 38 and its fair value can be measured reliably.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
62 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION 2.
BASIS OF PREPARATION Continued Changes in accounting standards There are no new standards, amendments to existing standards or interpretations that are effective for the first time for the current year that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
At the balance sheet date a number of new standards and amendments to existing standards were in issue but not yet effective.
The Group has not early-adopted any of these new standards or amendments to existing standards.
In June 2011, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits IAS 19 revised.
The revised standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, which applies to the Group for the accounting period 52 weeks ending 1 March 2014.
IAS 19 revised is required to be applied retrospectively.
The impact on the Groups defined pension obligations will be to replace the interest expense on retirement benefit obligations and the expected return on plan assets with a single net interest amount that is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability.
In addition, the administration costs of the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme will be charged within operating costs.
The estimated impact of this amendment on the Groups financial statements for the year ended 2 March 2013 would be to decrease pre-tax profit by approximately 9m, with a corresponding offsetting movement in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, leaving the liability disclosed within the consolidated balance sheet unchanged.
These adjustments to the income statement relate to items currently excluded from the Groups reported benchmark profit before tax, so it is anticipated that IAS 19 revised will have no impact on reported benchmark profit before tax.
In May 2011, the IASB issued IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities.
These new standards are not expected to have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
In May 2011, the IASB also issued IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, which provides a precise definition of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs.
This new standard is not expected to have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
The IASB continues to develop IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, which is being issued in phases.
Until IFRS 9 is finalised, its full requirements remain uncertain, so it is not currently possible to assess the impact of its adoption on the Groups financial statements.
There are no other new standards, amendments to existing standards or interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
Critical accounting estimates and assumptions The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities.
The resulting accounting estimates, which are based on managements best judgement at the date of the financial statements, will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis, with revisions recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and future periods where appropriate.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below: Taxes The Group is subject to taxes in a number of jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes as there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the results for the year and the respective income tax and deferred tax provisions in the year in which such determination is made.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry-forwards and other temporary differences to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through the future taxable profits is probable.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 63 FINANCIAL STATEmENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013 2.
BASIS OF PREPARATION Continued Post-employment benefits The present value of the defined benefit obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions.
The assumptions used in determining the defined benefit obligations and net pension costs include the expected long-term rate of return on the relevant scheme assets and the discount rate.
Any changes in these assumptions may impact the amounts disclosed in the Groups balance sheet and income statement.
The expected return on scheme assets is calculated by reference to the scheme investments at the year-end and is a weighted average of the expected returns on each main asset type based on market yields available on these asset types at the year-end.
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year.
This is the interest rate used to determine the present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the defined benefit obligations.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the market yields of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity consistent with the estimated average term of the related pension liability.
Other key assumptions for defined benefit obligations and pension costs are based in part on market conditions at the relevant year-ends and additional information is disclosed in note 24.
Impairment of goodwill Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs at the level of each business segment.
The Group is required to assess whether goodwill has suffered any impairment loss on an annual basis, based on the recoverable amount, being the higher of the CGUs fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
The value-in-use calculations require the use of estimates in relation to future cash flows and suitable discount rates as disclosed in note 14.
Actual outcomes could vary from these estimates.
Impairment of assets Assets are subject to impairment reviews whenever changes in events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred.
If such an indicator exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of any impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
In the case of store assets, a CGU may represent a single store or a group of stores.
Assets or CGUs are written down to their recoverable amount, which is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
Value-in-use is calculated by discounting the expected cash flows from the asset at an appropriate discount rate for the risks associated with that asset.
This includes estimates of both the expected cash flows and an appropriate discount rate which use managements assumptions and estimates of the future performance of the asset.
Differences between expectations and the actual cash flows will result in differences in the level of impairment required.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed if there has been a significant change in the underlying assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount, however not to an amount higher than the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of amortisation or depreciation, if no impairment loss had been recognised in prior years.
Impairment of trade receivables A trade receivable is impaired when there is objective evidence that events since the receivable was established have affected the expected cash flows from the receivable.
The Groups impairment provision against trade receivables is established on a portfolio basis, taking into account the level of arrears, past loss experience and defaults based on portfolio trends.
The future credit quality of the trade receivable portfolio is subject to uncertainties that could cause actual credit losses to differ materially from the reported impairment provision against trade receivables.
These uncertainties include the economic environment, notably the unemployment level, payment behaviour and bankruptcy trends.
64 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION Provisions Provisions have been estimated for onerous leases, insurance, restructuring, customer redress in respect of financial services products and other liabilities.
These provisions represent the best estimate of the liability at the balance sheet date, the actual liability being dependent on future events such as trading conditions at a particular store or the incidence of insurance claims against the Group.
Expectations will be revised each period until the actual liability arises, with any difference accounted for in the period in which the revision is made.
Inventory provisions Inventory is carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value, which requires the estimation of the eventual sales price of goods to customers in the future.
Net realisable value takes into account slow moving, obsolete and defective inventory.
Any difference between the expected and the actual sales price achieved will be accounted for in the period in which the sale is made.
SUmmARY OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Revenue recognition Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and services to external customers, net of value added tax, rebates, discounts and expected returns.
Revenue is recognised as follows: Sale of goods Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Revenue on goods to be delivered is recognised when the customer receives delivery of the goods.
The Group operates a variety of sales promotion schemes that give rise to goods being sold at a discount to the standard retail price.
Revenue is shown net of value added tax, returns and discounts.
Commissions receivable on the sale of services for which the Group acts as agent are included within revenue.
Interest income Interest income on customer store card accounts and loans is recognised as revenue using the effective interest method.
Foreign currency translation Functional and presentation currency The consolidated financial information is presented in sterling, which is the Companys functional and the Groups presentation currency.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Translation differences on monetary items are taken to the income statement with the exception of differences on transactions that are subject to effective cash flow hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary items are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss and are included in either equity or the income statement as appropriate.
Group companies The results and financial position of overseas Home Retail Group entities are translated into sterling as follows: assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate for the period: and all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities are taken to equity.
Tax charges and credits attributable to those exchange differences are taken directly to equity.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and are translated at the closing rate.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 65 FINANCIAL STATEmENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013 3.
SUmmARY OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued Segmental reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Board of Directors and Operating Board that makes strategic decisions.
Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of the fair value of the consideration payable for an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable net assets of a subsidiary or associate acquired at the date of acquisition.
Fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition at that date.
Adjustments are made where necessary to bring the accounting policies of acquired businesses into alignment with those of the Group.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in the carrying amount of the investment.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
Goodwill is not amortised and is tested at least annually for impairment.
An impairment charge is recognised where the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its recoverable amount, being the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
Value-in-use calculations are performed using cash flow projections discounted at a rate taking account of the specific risks inherent within the Groups retail businesses.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold, allocated where necessary on the basis of relative fair value.
Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised separately from goodwill, if those assets are separable and their fair value can be measured reliably.
Intangible assets acquired separately from the acquisition of a business are capitalised at cost.
Certain costs incurred in the developmental phase of an internal project are capitalised as intangible assets provided that a number of criteria are satisfied.
These include the technical feasibility of completing the asset so that it is available for use or sale, the availability of adequate resources to complete the development and how the asset will generate probable future economic benefit.
The cost of other intangible assets with finite useful economic lives is amortised over that period.
The carrying values of intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
If impaired, they are written down to the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
Brands Acquired brands have a finite useful life and are initially recognised at fair value at the date of acquisition and subsequently held at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is calculated to spread the cost of the brands over their estimated useful lives of 10 years on a straight-line basis.
This amortisation method reflects the pattern in which the assets future economic benefits are expected to be consumed.
Computer software Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
Computer software licences are held at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over three to five years.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will generate economic benefits beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over 3 to 10 years.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs are recognised as an expense as incurred.
The residual values and useful lives of assets are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are held at cost, being the purchase price and other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into use less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
An impairment charge is recognised where the carrying value of the asset or CGU to which the asset belongs exceeds its recoverable amount, being the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and its valuein-use.
Value-in-use calculations are performed using cash flow projections discounted at a rate taking account of the specific risks inherent within the Groups businesses.
66 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis as follows: freehold properties are depreciated over 50 years: leasehold premises are depreciated over the period of the lease: plant, vehicles and equipment are depreciated over 2 to 10 years according to the estimated life of the asset: land is not depreciated: and assets under the course of construction are not depreciated.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the balance sheet, with the cost of unrecoverable trade receivables recognised in the income statement immediately.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost bases in use within the Group are general retail goods valued on a standard cost or weighted average basis which approximates to actual cost.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Costs of inventory include the transfer from equity of any gains or losses on qualifying cash flow hedges relating to their purchase.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts.
Current asset investments Current asset investments includes cash on deposit held with banks, with original maturities of greater than three months.
Trade payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
They are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
They are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently remeasured at amortised cost.
Current and non-current tax Current tax and non-current tax are based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from profit before tax as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts.
However, if the deferred tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 67 FINANCIAL STATEmENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013 3.
SUmmARY OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued Provisions Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset when the reimbursement is certain.
Provisions are made for onerous lease contracts for stores that have closed or where a decision to close has been announced, and for those stores where the projected future trading income is insufficient to cover the lower of exit cost or value-in-use.
Provisions are also made for potential customer redress in respect of financial services products, the estimated cost of insurance claims incurred by the Group but not settled at the balance sheet date, restructuring costs and other liabilities.
Insurance Statutory classes of risk, such as employer liability and certain motor liability, are insured by the Groups captive insurer, Home Retail Group Guernsey LP.
The Group self-insures other risks and the liabilities associated with these risks are held elsewhere within the Group.
The Group accounts for all insurance costs as part of operating costs in these financial statements.
Insurance premiums in respect of insurance placed with third parties are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate.
Operating leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Incentives from lessors are recognised as a systematic reduction of the charge over the life of the lease.
Post-employment benefits The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised past service costs.
The defined benefit obligations are calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected-unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
For defined contribution pension plans the Group and employees pay contributions into an independently administered fund.
The cost of providing these benefits, recognised in the income statement, comprises the amount of contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the year.
68 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION Catalogue costs Costs incurred during the production of the Groups catalogues are deferred on the balance sheet net of any associated advertising revenue and marketing support until the catalogue is made available to the Group, at which point the net deferred cost is charged to the income statement.
Dividends Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the year-end are not recognised in the financial statements until they have been approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised in the financial statements when they are paid.
Financial instruments The Group classifies its financial instruments in the following categories: financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial instruments were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial instruments at initial recognition.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
Availablefor-sale financial assets are measured at fair value or, where fair value cannot be reliably measured, at cost less impairment.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are recognised at fair value on the date a contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates derivatives as either cash flow hedges or fair value hedges.
The Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items at the hedge inception, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of hedged items.
Movements on the hedging reserve in equity are shown in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
Cash flow hedges The cash flow hedges are intended to hedge the foreign currency exposures of the future purchases of inventory.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity.
Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion would be recognised immediately in the income statement.
The hedged cash flow is expected to occur up to 14 months into the future and will be transferred to the consolidated income statement via inventory carrying value as applicable.
Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of forward currency exchange contracts hedging the Groups exposure to foreign currency liabilities is recognised in the income statement within cost of sales.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the effective interest method is used is amortised to the income statement over the period to maturity.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 69 FINANCIAL STATEmENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013 3.
SUmmARY OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued Fair value estimation The fair value of financial instruments traded in organised active financial markets is based on quoted market prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price: the appropriate quoted market price for financial liabilities is the current offer price.
The fair value of financial instruments for which there is no quoted market price is determined by a variety of methods incorporating assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used for long-term debt.
Other techniques, such as estimated discounted cash flows, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate to their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
Share-based payments The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the shares granted is recognised as an expense after taking into account the best estimate of the number of awards expected to vest.
The Group revisits the vesting estimate at each balance sheet date.
Non-market performance conditions are included in the vesting estimate.
Expenses are incurred over the vesting period.
Fair value is measured at the date of grant using whichever of the Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo models, or closing market price is most appropriate to the award.
Market-based performance conditions are included in the fair value measurement on grant date and are not revisited for actual performance.
Non-GAAP financial information Exceptional items Items which are both material and non-recurring are presented as exceptional items within their relevant income statement line.
The separate reporting of exceptional items helps provide a better indication of underlying performance of the Group.
Examples of items which may be recorded as exceptional items are restructuring costs and the profits losses on the disposal of businesses.
Benchmark measures The Group uses the following terms as measures which are not formally recognised under IFRS: Benchmark operating profit is defined as operating profit before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, store impairment and onerous lease charges or releases and exceptional items.
Benchmark profit before tax benchmark PBT is defined as profit before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, store impairment and onerous lease charges or releases, exceptional items, financing fair value remeasurements, financing impact on retirement benefit obligations, the discount unwind on non-benchmark items and taxation.
Basic benchmark earnings per share benchmark EPS is defined as benchmark PBT less taxation attributable to benchmark PBT, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue excluding shares held in Home Retail Groups share trusts net of vested but unexercised share awards.
These measures are considered useful in that they provide investors with an alternative means to evaluate the underlying performance of the Groups operations.
Total net debt The Group uses the term total net debt which is considered useful in that it highlights the Groups aggregate net indebtedness to banks and other financial institutions together with debt-like liabilities, notably operating leases.
70 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION 4.
FINANCIAL RISK mANAGEmENT Financial risk factors There are a number of financial risks and uncertainties which could impact the performance of the Group, being market risk foreign exchange and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group operates a structured risk management process which identifies, evaluates and prioritises risks and uncertainties.
Further details of the principal risks and uncertainties that could impact the Groups performance, and the Groups mitigating activities, are set out in the principal risks and uncertainties section of the review of the business on pages 30 to 31.
The Groups treasury function seeks to reduce exposures to foreign exchange, interest rate and other financial risks, and to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash assets safely and profitably.
Policies and procedures are subject to review and approval by the Board of Directors as well as subject to internal audit review.
Market risk foreign exchange risk The Group is subject to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US dollar and the euro.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
To manage the foreign exchange risk arising from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities, entities in the Group use forward contracts, transacted with external banks.
Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions or recognised assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not the entitys functional currency.
Group Treasury is responsible for managing the net position in each foreign currency by using external forward currency contracts.
The key objective of the Groups foreign exchange transaction exposure management is to minimise potential volatility in profits which could arise as a result of exchange rate fluctuations whilst maintaining an appropriate relative position versus the Groups retail peers.
To achieve the above objectives, the Group will initially seek to hedge up to 90% of any foreign exchange transaction risks expected to arise as a result of uncertain, but probable, foreign currency cash flows up to 14 months forward.
This subsequently increases to 100% as cash flows become certain.
Each subsidiary designates contracts as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges, as appropriate.
External foreign exchange contracts are designated as hedges of foreign exchange risk on specific assets, liabilities or future transactions on a gross basis.
The cash flow hedges are intended to hedge the foreign currency exposure of future purchases of inventory.
The hedged cash flows are expected to occur up to 14 months into the future and will be transferred to the consolidated income statement or inventory carrying value as applicable.
The Group has foreign operations whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
Currency exposure arising from the net assets of the Groups foreign operations is not hedged.
If on 2 March 2013, the last day of the financial year, sterling had been 5 cents, or approximately 3.3% 2012: approximately 3.2%, weaker stronger against the US dollar, with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit would have been 1.0m lower higher 2012: 0.5m lower higher mainly as a result of foreign exchange losses gains arising on retranslation of US dollar denominated balances in subsidiary companies with a sterling functional currency.
Equity would have been 12.0m higher lower 2012: 12.6m higher lower, arising mainly from the revaluation of US dollar forward currency contracts.
If on 2 March 2013, the last day of the financial year, sterling had been 5 cents, or approximately 4.3% 2012: approximately 4.2%, weaker stronger against the euro, with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit would have been 0.2m lower higher 2012: 0.2m lower higher, mainly as a result of foreign exchange losses gains on retranslation of sterling denominated cash balances in subsidiary companies with a euro functional currency.
Equity would have been 2.5m lower higher 2012: 0.6m lower higher, arising mainly from the revaluation of euro forward currency contracts net of foreign exchange gains or losses on retranslation of euro-denominated net assets held by subsidiary companies with a euro functional currency.
Market risk cash flow and fair value interest rate risk Whilst the Groups Financial Services business has gross instalment receivable balances on fixed interest rates and floating rates, the Groups income and operating cash flows are still considered to be substantially independent of changes in market interest rates.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 71 FINANCIAL STATEmENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013 4.
FINANCIAL RISK mANAGEmENT Continued The Group currently holds a net cash position and has undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
The Groups interest rate risk arises from the variance in market rate when deposits are made.
This risk is managed by combining overnight deposits with term deposits.
Interest rate risk also arises from any future long-term borrowings that it may incur.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The principal objective of the Groups interest rate risk management is to manage the trade-off between obtaining the most beneficial effective rates of interest whilst minimising the impact of interest rate volatility on profits before tax.
The aim will normally be to manage interest rate risks by achieving a ratio of between 30% and 70% of net debt fixed rate.
The Group had no borrowings at any point during the year.
Credit risk The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.
It has policies in place to ensure that sales of financial services products are made to customers with an appropriate credit history.
Customers are credit scored using an external credit agency.
Sales to retail customers are made in cash, via major debit and credit cards or via in-house or third-party operated financial products.
The Groups exposure to credit risk with regard to treasury transactions is managed by dealing only with major banks and financial institutions.
Dealing activity is closely controlled and counterparty positions are monitored on a regular basis.
Foreign exchange counterparty limits are set for each organisation on a scale based on credit rating and maturity period.
The Groups cash management policy, which was updated and approved by the Board of Directors during the year, requires: for a term deposit of up to 50m for up to three months a bank must have a minimum long-term rating of Aor better: for an additional three-month term deposit of up to 50m, or a term deposit of up to 50m for a period of up to 12 months, a bank must have a minimum long-term rating of A, or a minimum rating of A if the UK Government holds a minimum shareholding of 25%: for instant access on demand accounts of up to 50m a bank must have a minimum short-term rating of B: for instant access on demand accounts of up to 100m a bank must have a minimum short-term rating of A-1: and for a deposit of up to 100m in a money market fund, the fund must have a long-term rating of AAA.
Each deposit made by the Group during the year was compliant with the policy that was effective at the date the deposit was made.
Where a term deposit has been made and the counterparty ratings have subsequently reduced, each relevant position has been reviewed and any decision to maintain a position until the normal maturity date has been approved by the Board of Directors.
The credit quality of financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired can be assessed by reference to external credit ratings as follows: Cash and term deposits Cash and Bank and institution Bank and institution short-term long-term rating at long-term rating at cash deposits transaction date 2 march 2013 maturity date m AAA AAA n a 60.7 A A n a 100.0 A A n a 222.5 BB BB n a 12.8 396.0 Cash and Bank and institution Bank and institution short-term long-term rating at long-term rating at cash deposits transaction date 3 March 2012 Maturity date m AAA AAA n a 94.3 A A n a 100.0 194.3 72 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION marked to market forward foreign exchange contracts 2013 2012 Bank and institution rating at year-end m m AA- 4.5 1.4 A 10.3 0.6 A 19.3 0.9 A- 0.2 34.1 3.1 Of the 34.1m net asset 2012: 3.1m net asset in respect of marked to market forward foreign exchange contracts held at the year-end, 35% 2012: 36% will have matured within three months of the balance sheet date.
Liquidity risk Home Retail Group manages its cash and committed borrowing facilities to maintain liquidity and funding flexibility.
Liquidity is achieved through arranging funding ahead of requirements and maintaining sufficient undrawn committed facilities to meet short-term needs, and facilities are in place for this purpose.
At 2 March 2013, the Group had an undrawn committed borrowing facility available of 685m which had a contractual maturity date in July 2013.
This facility, which was unsecured, included a covenant related to adjusted benchmark earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and rent.
The Group had not drawn down on the facility and had been in compliance with the requirements of the covenant throughout the year.
Subsequent to the year-end, the Group has agreed a new unsecured, committed borrowing facility of 165m that will expire in March 2016.
This new facility includes the covenant noted above and also includes a covenant related to net balance sheet debt.
As a result of agreeing this new facility, the 685m facility that existed at 2 March 2013 was cancelled prior to its contractual maturity date.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances, as the impact of discounting is not significant.
At 2 march 2013 Less than 3-6 6-9 9-12 3 months months months months Total m m m m m Trade and other payables 674.6 674.6 At 3 March 2012 Less than 3-6 6-9 9-12 3 months months months months Total m m m m m Trade and other payables 539.5 539.5 When a forward foreign exchange contract matures, this requires an outflow of the currency being sold and an inflow of the currency being bought.
The table below analyses the Groups outflow and inflow from derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
At 2 march 2013 Less than 3-6 6-9 9-12 3 months months months months Total m m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts outflow 276.3 228.2 180.1 97.2 781.8 inflow 287.0 236.7 190.2 102.0 815.9 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 73 FINANCIAL STATEmENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013 4.
FINANCIAL RISK mANAGEmENT Continued At 3 March 2012 Less than 3-6 6-9 9-12 3 months months months months Total m m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts outflow 284.4 231.2 175.7 97.6 788.9 inflow 289.2 232.8 173.7 96.3 792.0 Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal and efficient capital structure.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
The Group finances its operations through a combination of cash, property leases and borrowing facilities where necessary.
The Group has significant liabilities through its obligations to pay rents under property leases.
The Group, in common with the credit rating agencies, treats its lease liabilities as debt when evaluating financial risk and investment returns.
In addition, the Groups Financial Services business holds a net loan book balance of 475m 2012: 457m as at 2 March 2013.
The Groups net debt varies throughout the year due to trading seasonality, and the position as at 2 March 2013 is set out in the analysis of net cash debt on page 61.
Foreign currency The principal exchange rates used were as follows: Average Closing 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 2 march 3 March 2 march 3 March 2013 2012 2013 2012 US dollar 1.58 1.60 1.50 1.58 Euro 1.23 1.16 1.15 1.20 Fair value estimation IFRS 7 requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following measurement hierarchy: Level 1 quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices : and Level 3 inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price.
These instruments are included in level 1 and comprise investments in quoted managed indexed funds.
As at 2 March 2013, these instruments, which are classified as available-for-sale financial assets, had a carrying value of 20.7m 2012: 16.3m.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over-the-counter derivatives is determined by using valuation techniques.
The valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates.
If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
As at 2 March 2013, the fair value of derivative instruments used for hedging purposes was a net asset of 34.1m 2012: 3.1m net asset.
If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3.
The Group has no level 3 instruments to disclose.
Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include: Quoted market prices: and The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
74 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION 5.
SEGmENTAL INFORmATION The Board of Directors and Operating Board review the Groups internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources.
Management has determined the operating segments based on these reports, which reflect the distinct retail brands and different risks associated with the different businesses.
The Group is organised into three main business segments: Argos, Homebase and Financial Services together with Central Activities.
The Board of Directors and Operating Board assess the performance of the operating segments based on a combination of revenue and benchmark operating profit.
Benchmark operating profit is defined within note 3.
52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 2 march 3 March 2013 2012 m m Revenue Argos 3,931.3 3,935.3 Homebase 1,430.7 1,536.4 Financial Services 113.4 111.1 Central Activities Total segment revenue 5,475.4 5,582.8 Benchmark operating profit Argos 100.3 106.9 Homebase 11.0 23.8 Financial Services 6.0 6.1 Central Activities 24.0 25.1 Total segment benchmark operating profit 93.3 111.7 Benchmark net financing income 3.8 3.5 Share of post-tax loss profit of associates 6.0 0.5 Benchmark profit before tax 91.1 115.7 Exceptional items 31.3 20.3 Financing fair value remeasurements 1.1 3.3 Financing impact on retirement benefit obligations 3.1 4.8 Discount unwind on non-benchmark items 7.1 6.7 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 1.8 1.2 Net onerous lease provision releases 14.6 8.5 Profit before tax 130.1 104.1 Taxation 36.1 31.3 Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company 94.0 72.8 2013 2012 m m Segment assets Argos 2,299.9 2,299.0 Homebase 896.3 883.8 Financial Services 500.9 479.3 Central Activities 103.1 100.8 Total segment assets 3,800.2 3,762.9 Tax assets 49.0 51.4 Cash and cash equivalents 396.0 194.3 Total assets per balance sheet 4,245.2 4,008.6 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 75 FINANCIAL STATEmENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013 5.
SEGmENTAL INFORmATION Continued Segment assets include goodwill and other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investments in associates, inventories, trade and other receivables and other financial assets.
Tax assets, current asset investments and cash and cash equivalents are not allocated to segments.
Central Activities segment assets include 9.6m 2012: 8.3m in respect of associates, including those associates reported within non-current assets classified as held for sale.
2013 2012 m m Segment liabilities Argos 739.9 628.4 Homebase 520.9 477.6 Financial Services 41.8 34.4 Central Activities 86.7 100.8 Total segment liabilities 1,389.3 1,241.2 Tax liabilities 38.3 26.7 Retirement benefit obligations 85.1 115.3 Total liabilities per balance sheet 1,512.7 1,383.2 Segment liabilities include trade and other payables, provisions and other financial liabilities.
Tax liabilities and retirement benefit obligations are not allocated to segments.
52 weeks ended 2 march 2013 Financial Central Argos Homebase Services Activities Total Other segment items Notes m m m m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16 54.2 34.4 3.3 91.9 Amortisation of intangible assets 15 25.2 4.9 0.5 2.2 32.8 Share-based payment expense 29 5.7 3.6 0.7 1.9 11.9 Additions to property, plant and equipment 16 42.0 12.8 0.1 0.4 55.3 Additions to other intangible assets 15 11.3 14.0 25.3 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 Financial Central Argos Homebase Services Activities Total Other segment items Notes m m m m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16 52.2 42.6 4.8 99.6 Amortisation of intangible assets 15 21.8 3.2 0.7 1.2 26.9 Share-based payment expense 29 3.0 2.6 0.5 2.8 8.9 Additions to property, plant and equipment 16 45.3 45.6 6.2 97.1 Additions to other intangible assets 15 31.0 4.7 0.2 1.9 37.8 Geographical segments The Group trades predominantly in the UK and the Republic of Ireland and consequently the majority of revenues, capital expenditure and segment net assets arise there.
76 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION 6.
ANALYSIS OF REVENUE BY CATEGORY 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 2 march 3 March 2013 2012 m m Sale of goods 5,362.0 5,471.7 Provision of services by Financial Services 113.4 111.1 Total 5,475.4 5,582.8 7.
NET OPERATING EXPENSES 52 weeks ended 2 march 2013 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 Before After Before After exceptional Exceptional exceptional exceptional Exceptional exceptional items items items items items items Expenses by function m m m m m m Net operating expenses comprise: Selling costs 1,330.8 1,330.8 1,399.2 19.8 1,419.0 Administrative costs 295.2 31.3 263.9 270.6 0.5 271.1 Total net operating expenses 1,626.0 31.3 1,594.7 1,669.8 20.3 1,690.1 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 2 march 3 March 2013 2012 Notes m m Profit before tax is stated after charging: Operating lease rental expense 353.9 368.0 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense in cost of sales 3,624.5 3,677.0 Write down of inventories 118.8 117.0 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.2 1.8 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16 91.9 99.6 Amortisation of intangible assets 15 32.8 26.9 Employee benefit costs 8 636.6 655.5 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 2 march 3 March 2013 2012 Auditors remuneration m m Audit services: Fees payable for the audit of the Company and the consolidated financial statements 0.8 0.8 Other services: Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for other services the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 services relating to taxation 0.2 all other services 0.2 0.2 Total fees payable to  LLP 1.1 1.3 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 77 FINANCIAL STATEmENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013 8.
EmPLOYEE BENEFIT COSTS AND EmPLOYEE NUmBERS 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 2 march 3 March 2013 2012 Employee costs Notes m m Wages and salaries 598.9 584.1 Social security costs 38.7 38.4 Post-employment benefits 24 12.9 24.1 Share-based payments 29 11.9 8.9 636.6 655.5 Employee costs includes a net credit of 33.0m 2012: nil in respect of the net exceptional gain arising on the closure of the Groups defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual.
The basis of calculation of employee costs has been changed during the year ended 2 March 2013, and consequently the comparative employee costs have been represented for consistency.
This change has had no impact on the income statement in either the current or prior year.
52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 2 march 2013 3 March 2012 Number of Full time Number of Full time Average number of employees employees equivalent employees equivalent Argos 29,271 14,302 30,686 15,073 Homebase 18,561 9,817 19,002 10,242 Financial Services 550 486 513 448 Central Activities 51 51 53 53 48,433 24,656 50,254 25,816 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 2 march 3 March 2013 2012 Key management compensation m m Short-term employee benefits 5.5 3.4 Post-employment benefits 1.2 1.5 Share-based payments 2.4 1.7 9.1 6.6 Key management consists of the members of the Home Retail Group plc Board of Directors and the managing directors of both retail businesses.
78 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION 9.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEmS 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 2 march 3 March 2013 2012 m m Net gain on employee benefits 31.3 Reorganisation and restructuring charges 20.3 Exceptional items in operating profit 31.3 20.3 Tax on exceptional items in profit before tax 7.5 3.3 Exceptional tax 7.5 3.3 Exceptional profit loss after tax for the year 23.8 17.0 The Home Retail Group defined benefit pension scheme closed to future accrual with effect from 31 January 2013.
This has led to a net gain of 31.3m, which includes a non-cash curtailment gain of 37.4m, offset by costs of 6.1m related to closure of the scheme.
Reorganisation and restructuring actions announced during the 53 weeks to 3 March 2012 included the closure of the Groups UK homewares trial format, HomeStore&More, and one of the Groups distribution warehouses.
NET FINANCING EXPENSE INCOmE 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 2 march 3 March 2013 2012 m m Finance income: Bank deposits and other interest 1.9 1.8 Expected return on retirement benefit assets 44.1 48.0 Financing fair value remeasurements net exchange gains 1.2 3.5 Total finance income 47.2 53.3 Finance expense: Unwinding of discounts 8.3 8.4 Financing fair value remeasurements net exchange losses 2.3 0.2 Interest expense on retirement benefit liabilities 41.0 43.2 Total finance expense 51.6 51.8 Less: finance expense charged to Financial Services cost of sales 3.1 3.4 Total net finance expense 48.5 48.4 Net financing expense income 1.3 4.9 Included within unwinding of discounts is a 7.1m charge 2012: 6.7m relating to the discount unwind on non-benchmark onerous lease provisions.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 79 FINANCIAL STATEmENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013 11.
TAXATION 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 2 march 3 March 2013 2012 Analysis of charge in year m m Current tax: UK corporation tax 32.3 32.2 Double tax relief 1.2 1.1 Adjustments in respect of prior years 7.4 13.1 Total current UK tax charge 23.7 18.0 Overseas tax 1.8 2.4 Total current tax charge 25.5 20.4 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 6.0 2.5 Adjustments in respect of prior years 4.7 8.3 Rate change impact 0.1 0.1 Total tax charge in income statement 36.1 31.3 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 2 march 3 March 2013 2012 Tax included in other comprehensive income m m Cash flow hedges 6.8 5.2 Retirement benefit obligations 4.2 31.5 Share-based payments 0.4 Rate change impact 1.8 1.6 Total tax charge credit in other comprehensive income 4.0 24.7 Factors affecting the tax charge The effective tax rate for the year of 27.7% 2012: 30.1%, is higher than 2012: higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 24.0% 2012: 26.0%.
This is analysed below: 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 2 march 3 March 2013 2012 m m Profit before tax 130.1 104.1 Profit before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 31.2 27.1 Effects of: Benchmark: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 6.8 7.0 Differences in effective tax rates on overseas earnings 0.5 1.4 Tax credit charge on non-benchmark profit 7.8 2.8 Benchmark tax expense 29.7 35.5 Non-benchmark: Tax charge credit on exceptional items 7.5 3.3 Tax charge on non-benchmark items 1.7 3.8 Tax credit in respect of prior years 2.7 4.8 Rate change impact 0.1 0.1 Total tax charge in income statement 36.1 31.3 80 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION Factors that may affect future tax charges In the foreseeable future, the Groups tax charge will continue to be influenced by the profile of profits earned in the different tax jurisdictions within the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
The income tax expense for the year is based on the UK statutory rate of corporation tax for the period of 24.0% 2012: 26.0%.
Overseas tax is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The impact of the changes in statutory rates relates to the reduction of the UK corporation tax rate from 24.0% to 23.0% from 1 April 2013, the substantively enacted rate, which differs from the recently announced rates of 21.0% from 1 April 2014 and 20.0% from 1 April 2015.
This change has resulted in a deferred tax charge arising from the reduction in the balance sheet carrying value of the net deferred tax asset to reflect the enacted rate of tax at which those assets are expected to reverse.
DIVIDENDS 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 2 march 3 March 2013 2012 Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders m m Final dividend of nil per share 2012: 10.0p for the prior year 79.9 Interim dividend of 1.0p per share 2012: 4.7p for the current year 8.0 37.6 Ordinary dividends on equity shares 8.0 117.5 A final dividend in respect of the year ended 2 March 2013 of 2.0p per share 2012: nil, amounting to a total final dividend of 16.0m, has been proposed by the Board of Directors, and is subject to approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
This would make a total dividend for the year of 3.0p per share, amounting to 24.0m.
The final dividend of 2.0p per share will be paid on 24 July 2013 to shareholders who are on the register of members at close of business on 24 May 2013.
The Home Retail Group Employee Share Trust EST has waived its entitlement to dividends in the amount of 0.1m 2012: 2.1m.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 81 FINANCIAL STATEmENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013 13.
BASIC AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE EPS Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to the equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding ordinary shares held in Home Retail Groups share trusts, net of vested but unexercised share awards.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all potential dilutive ordinary shares.
52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 2 march 3 March 2013 2012 Earnings m m Profit after tax for the financial year 94.0 72.8 Adjusted for: Exceptional items 31.3 20.3 Financing fair value remeasurements 1.1 3.3 Financing impact on retirement benefit obligations 3.1 4.8 Discount unwind on non-benchmark items 7.1 6.7 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 1.8 1.2 Net onerous lease provision releases 14.6 8.5 Attributable taxation 9.2 0.5 Non-benchmark tax credit in respect of prior years 2.7 4.8 Tax rate change 0.1 0.1 Benchmark profit after tax for the financial year 61.4 80.2 Weighted average number of shares millions millions Number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic EPS 800.6 799.4 Dilutive effect of share incentive awards 12.4 3.9 Number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted EPS 813.0 803.3 EPS pence pence Basic EPS 11.7 9.1 Diluted EPS 11.6 9.1 Basic benchmark EPS 7.7 10.0 Diluted benchmark EPS 7.6 10.0 82 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION 14.
GOODWILL Central Argos Homebase Activities Total m m m m Cost At 4 March 2012 1,152.3 770.4 2.9 1,925.6 At 2 march 2013 1,152.3 770.4 2.9 1,925.6 Accumulated impairment At 4 march 2012 and 2 march 2013 381.7 381.7 Net book value at 2 march 2013 1,152.3 388.7 2.9 1,543.9 Central Argos Homebase Activities Total m m m m Cost At 27 February 2011 1,152.3 770.4 1,922.7 Additions 2.9 2.9 At 3 March 2012 1,152.3 770.4 2.9 1,925.6 Accumulated impairment At 27 February 2011 and 3 March 2012 381.7 381.7 Net book value at 3 March 2012 1,152.3 388.7 2.9 1,543.9 Net book value at 27 February 2011 1,152.3 388.7 1,541.0 Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to three individual cash-generating units CGUs being the business segments of Argos and Homebase, and Habitat within Central Activities.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to Argos and Homebase is significant in comparison with the total carrying amount of goodwill.
The recoverable amount of the goodwill allocated to Habitat, which is immaterial, is based on some of the same key assumptions.
The recoverable amount of each of Argos and Homebase has been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations use cash flow projections based on financial plans approved by management looking forward five years.
Benchmark operating profits for the current year, of 100.3m for Argos 2012: 106.9m and 11.0m for Homebase 2012: 23.8m, have been adjusted into the plan period.
The five-year projections for each business have been prepared with regard to the following key assumptions: sales growth, based on externally prepared projections which have been adjusted into the plan period for, among other things, the effect of sales initiatives, changes to the store portfolio of each business and changes to the competitive landscape in which each business operates: gross margins, based on recent experience, which have been adjusted for factors such as the impact of changes to product costs, estimated future shipping rates and foreign exchange rates, as well as margin improvement initiatives, including sourcing benefits and changes to product mix or range: and costs, based upon the existing cost base, expected levels of cost inflation and anticipated cost saving initiatives.
The cash flows for each business are extrapolated using a long-term growth rate beyond the five-year plan period, and are discounted to calculate the value-in-use.
The key assumptions used are: a long-term growth rate of 2.0% 2012: 2.0%, which has been used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the five-year plan period.
The growth rate is consistent with external forecasts and does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the UK: and a post-tax discount rate of 8.5% 2012: 8.5%, which equates to a pre-tax rate of approximately 11.0% 2012: 11.5%, has been estimated taking account of the specific risks inherent within the Groups retail businesses and has been applied to the cash flow projections.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 83 FINANCIAL STATEmENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013 14.
GOODWILL Continued The results of the Groups impairment tests are dependent upon estimates and judgements made by management, particularly in relation to the key assumptions described above.
The values attributed to these key assumptions over the five-year plan period are: 2013 2012 Argos Homebase Argos Homebase Compound annual increase in sales 3.2% 4.1% 1.2% 1.0% Compound annual decrease increase in gross margin rate 0.3% 0.3% 0.7% Compound annual increase decrease in operating costs 0.4% 1.3% 0.3% Long-term growth rate beyond 5 years 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% Post-tax discount rate 8.5% 8.5% 8.5% 8.5% At 2 March 2013, the excess in the estimated recoverable amount of each business segment, calculated on a value-in-use basis, over its carrying value was 1,286m 2012: 327m for Argos and 420m 2012: 465m for Homebase.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed on each of the above assumptions used for assessing the recoverable amount of each business segment, with other variables held constant, and as a result, management has concluded that reasonably possible changes in the assumptions could cause the carrying value of each business segment to exceed its recoverable amount.
The amounts by which the above assumptions would need to change to cause the carrying value of each business segment to exceed its recoverable amount are: 2013 Argos Homebase Including Including mitigating mitigating In isolation actions In isolation actions % % % % Decrease in the compound annual growth rate in sales 2.0% 2.9% 1.0% 1.6% Decrease in the compound annual growth rate in gross margin rate 1.9% 2.4% 1.0% 1.2% Increase in the compound annual growth rate in operating costs 2.2% 2.2% 1.1% 1.1% Decrease in the long-term growth rate beyond 5 years 8.7% n a 13.5% n a 2012 Argos Homebase Including Including mitigating mitigating In isolation actions In isolation actions % % % % Decrease in the compound annual growth rate in sales 0.5% 0.8% 0.9% 1.4% Decrease in the compound annual growth rate in gross margin rate 0.5% 0.6% 0.9% 1.1% Increase in the compound annual growth rate in operating costs 0.6% 0.6% 0.9% 0.9% Decrease in the long-term growth rate beyond 5 years 1.6% n a 12.8% n a No sensitivity to the discount rate assumption has been disclosed as management believes that no reasonably possible change in this assumption would generate a different outcome to the impairment tests as performed.
The mitigating actions included in the above analysis reflect the estimated impact of management actions expected to be taken in the event of these sensitivities arising.
84 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION 15.
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Computer software Brands Total m m m Cost At 4 March 2012 246.1 40.5 286.6 Additions 25.3 25.3 Disposals 1.4 1.4 At 2 march 2013 270.0 40.5 310.5 Accumulated amortisation At 4 March 2012 141.4 8.1 149.5 Charge for the year 28.7 4.1 32.8 Disposals 1.0 1.0 At 2 march 2013 169.1 12.2 181.3 Net book value at 2 march 2013 100.9 28.3 129.2 Assets in the course of construction included above at 2 March 2013 14.0 14.0 Computer software Brands Total m m m Cost At 27 February 2011 237.7 22.5 260.2 Acquired through business combination 0.5 18.0 18.5 Additions 37.8 37.8 Disposals 29.9 29.9 At 3 March 2012 246.1 40.5 286.6 Accumulated amortisation At 27 February 2011 147.7 4.7 152.4 Charge for the year 23.5 3.4 26.9 Disposals 29.8 29.8 At 3 March 2012 141.4 8.1 149.5 Net book value at 3 March 2012 104.7 32.4 137.1 Net book value at 26 February 2011 90.0 17.8 107.8 Assets in the course of construction included above at 3 March 2012 14.6 14.6 Amortisation of 2.9m 2012: 3.2m is included in cost of sales in the income statement and 29.9m 2012: 23.7m in net operating expenses.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 85 FINANCIAL STATEmENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013 16.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPmENT Leasehold properties Freehold Long Short Plant & properties leasehold leasehold equipment Total m m m m m Cost At 4 March 2012 129.8 1.7 350.7 978.3 1,460.5 Exchange differences 0.8 2.1 2.9 Additions 11.8 43.5 55.3 Disposals 3.4 27.7 31.1 At 2 march 2013 129.8 1.7 359.9 996.2 1,487.6 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At 4 March 2012 23.2 0.4 256.1 664.5 944.2 Exchange differences 0.6 1.9 2.5 Charge for the year 1.7 15.0 75.2 91.9 Disposals 2.0 23.9 25.9 At 2 march 2013 24.9 0.4 269.7 717.7 1,012.7 Net book value at 2 march 2013 104.9 1.3 90.2 278.5 474.9 Assets in the course of construction included above at 2 March 2013 0.3 12.8 13.1 Leasehold properties Freehold Long Short Plant & properties leasehold leasehold equipment Total m m m m m Cost At 27 February 2011 129.8 1.7 341.3 949.4 1,422.2 Exchange differences 0.5 1.3 1.8 Acquired through business combination 1.4 1.4 Additions 17.8 79.3 97.1 Disposals 7.9 50.5 58.4 At 3 March 2012 129.8 1.7 350.7 978.3 1,460.5 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At 27 February 2011 21.4 0.4 247.3 629.7 898.8 Exchange differences 0.4 1.0 1.4 Charge for the year 1.8 16.0 81.8 99.6 Disposals 6.8 46.0 52.8 At 3 March 2012 23.2 0.4 256.1 664.5 944.2 Net book value at 3 March 2012 106.6 1.3 94.6 313.8 516.3 Net book value at 26 February 2011 108.4 1.3 94.0 319.7 523.4 Assets in the course of construction included above at 3 March 2012 0.7 26.6 27.3 86 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION 17.
INVESTmENTS IN ASSOCIATES 2013 2012 m m At 4 March 2012 8.3 8.0 Exchange differences 0.3 0.2 Additions 2.4 Share of net loss profit after tax 2.1 0.5 Other equity movements 0.7 Reclassification to non-current assets classified as held for sale 9.6 At 2 march 2013 8.3 The Group has the following investments in associates: a 33% shareholding in Ogalas Limited which trades as home store more, a company incorporated in the Republic of Ireland, and which is reported as an associate.
a 49% holding in HH Retail Limited, a joint venture company with Haier Group to develop a multi-channel, general merchandise retail business in China, and which is reported as an associate.
The Groups share of the revenue of its associates for the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013 is 14.7m 2012: 11.6m and its share of the loss after tax is 6.0m 2012: 0.5m profit.
At 2 March 2013, the Groups share of the net assets of its associates amounted to 5.9m 2012: 8.3m, consisting of assets of 17.6m 2012: 9.9m, which includes goodwill of 4.8m 2012: 4.6m, and liabilities of 11.7m 2012: 1.6m.
On 8 March 2013, the Group sold its shareholding in Ogalas Limited and, as a result, the Groups interest in Ogalas Limited has been reclassified to non-current assets held for sale in the Groups balance sheet as at 2 March 2013.
Further details of the transaction can be found in note 35.
In addition, no liability has been recognised in the Groups balance sheet in respect of HH Retail Limited, but the Groups share of its accumulated losses has been taken initially against the carrying value of the investment, then subsequently against the carrying value of loans granted by the Group to HH Retail Limited, which are reported within other financial assets in note 25.
Therefore, the amount reported for the Groups investment in associates at the year-end is nil.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Current Non-current Current Non-current 2013 2013 2012 2012 m m m m Trade receivables: Instalment receivables 546.8 535.2 Other trade receivables 47.1 39.7 593.9 574.9 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 75.7 82.0 518.2 492.9 Other receivables 66.5 2.7 53.7 3.8 Prepayments and accrued income 52.1 48.0 636.8 2.7 594.6 3.8 The carrying values of current trade and other receivables are a reasonable approximation of their fair values due to their short-term nature.
Long-term receivables have been discounted where the time value of money is material.
All receivables due after more than one year are due within five years from the balance sheet date.
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, as the Group has a broad customer base.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 87 FINANCIAL STATEmENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013 19.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Continued As at 2 March 2013, trade receivables of 65.1m 2012: 71.2m were individually determined to be impaired.
The impaired receivables mainly relate to store card holder balances on customer accounts on which indications of possible default have been identified.
Provision for impairment of trade receivables is also made on a portfolio basis against trade receivables which are not individually determined to be impaired.
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: m At 3 March 2012 82.0 Charge for the year 21.0 Utilised 27.3 At 2 march 2013 75.7 As at 2 March 2013, trade receivables of 10.0m 2012: 20.5m were past due but not impaired.
These mainly relate to store card holders and corporate customer receivable balances.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 2013 2012 m m Less than 3 months 8.1 18.7 3 to 6 months 1.7 1.6 6 to 9 months 0.1 9 to 12 months 0.2 0.1 10.0 20.5 The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2013 2012 m m Cash at bank and in hand 396.0 194.3 The effective interest rate during the year ended 2 March 2013 for cash and cash equivalents was 0.7% 2012: 0.8%.
The Group has provided letters of credit totalling 12.5m 2012: 12.5m to AIG Europe Limited previously named Chartis Insurance UK Limited as part of their re-insurance agreement.
These letters are secured by cash deposits.
NON-CURRENT ASSETS CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE 2013 2012 m m Investments in associates 9.6 The Groups 33% shareholding in Ogalas Limited has been presented as held for sale following the Groups decision to sell its stake in the business.
The sale completed on 8 March 2013, further details of which can be found in note 35.
At 2 March 2013, the Groups share of the net assets of Ogalas Limited amounted to 9.6m 2012: 8.3m, consisting of assets of 12.2m 2012: 9.9m, which includes goodwill of 4.8m 2012: 4.6m, and liabilities of 2.6m 2012: 1.6m.
At 3 March 2012, the Groups investment in Ogalas Limited was reported within investments in associates in note 17.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Current Non-current Current Non-current 2013 2013 2012 2012 m m m m Trade payables 560.9 475.5 Social security costs and other taxes 61.7 45.4 Accruals and deferred income 379.8 52.6 360.0 55.8 Other payables 113.7 64.0 1,116.1 52.6 944.9 55.8 88 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing and the fair values are not considered to differ materially from the recognised book values.
Long-term payables have been discounted where the time value of money is material.
PROVISIONS Onerous leases Insurance Restructuring Other Total m m m m m At 4 March 2012 153.5 46.7 24.3 10.8 235.3 Exchange differences 1.9 1.9 Charged to the income statement 21.0 5.5 11.8 38.3 Released to the income statement 35.6 2.0 0.4 38.0 Utilised during the year 4.4 8.7 12.5 2.7 28.3 Discount unwind 8.3 0.3 8.6 At 2 march 2013 144.7 41.5 11.8 19.8 217.8 2013 2012 Analysed as: m m Current 38.3 47.8 Non-current 179.5 187.5 217.8 235.3 The onerous lease provision covers potential liabilities for onerous lease contracts for stores that have either closed, or where projected future trading income is insufficient to cover the lower of exit cost or value-in-use.
Where the value-in-use calculation is lower, the provision is based on the present value of expected future cash flows relating to rents, rates and other property costs to the end of the lease terms net of expected trading or sublet income.
The majority of this provision is expected to be utilised over the period to 2020.
Provision is made for the estimated costs of insurance claims incurred by the Group but not settled at the balance sheet date, including the costs of claims that have arisen but have not yet been reported to the Group.
The estimated cost of claims includes expenses to be incurred in settling claims.
The majority of this provision is expected to be utilised over the period to 2018.
A number of organisational changes were announced during the 53 weeks to 3 March 2012 to improve the operational efficiency of the Group and drive further cost productivity.
These actions included the closure of the Groups UK homewares trial format, HomeStore&More, and of one of the Groups distribution warehouses.
The majority of this provision is expected to be utilised within one year.
Other provisions include legal claims, potential customer redress in respect of financial services products and other sundry provisions.
The majority of these provisions are expected to be utilised over the period to 2016.
POST-EmPLOYmENT BENEFITS During the year, the Group operated both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
A defined benefit scheme is a pension scheme that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
A defined contribution scheme is a pension scheme under which both the Group and employees pay contributions into an independently administered fund.
Pension arrangements for UK employees were provided principally through a defined benefit scheme the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme, until it was closed to future accrual with effect from 31 January 2013, and a defined contribution scheme the Home Retail Group Personal Pension Plan, which continues to be operated.
In other countries, benefits are determined in accordance with local practice and regulations and funding is provided accordingly.
Defined benefit schemes The Home Retail Group Pension Scheme The scheme has rules which specify the benefits to be paid and is financed accordingly with assets being held in independently administered funds.
A full actuarial valuation of this scheme is carried out every three years with interim reviews in the intervening years.
The latest full actuarial valuation of the scheme was carried out as at 31 March 2012 by independent, qualified actuaries, Towers Watson, using the projected unit method and resulted in a deficit of 158m.
The next full actuarial valuation of the scheme will be carried out as at 31 March 2015.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 89 FINANCIAL STATEmENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013 24.
POST-EmPLOYmENT BENEFITS Continued IAS 19 valuations The valuations used for IAS 19 have been based on the most recent actuarial funding valuations and have been updated by Lane Clark & Peacock to take account of the requirements of IAS 19 in order to assess the liabilities of the schemes at the year-end.
The movements during the year in the net obligations recognised in the balance sheet were as follows: 2013 2012 m m At 4 March 2012 115.3 7.5 Total net gain charge recognised in the consolidated income statement 26.0 12.4 Actuarial loss recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 17.2 121.2 Contributions paid 21.4 25.8 At 2 march 2013 85.1 115.3 The Home Retail Group Pension Scheme closed to future accrual with effect from 31 January 2013 which resulted in a curtailment gain of 37.4m being recognised in the income statement for the period.
As a result of the closure, all previously active members of the scheme are now treated as deferred members.
The effect of the closure is that these members are no longer entitled to pension benefits linked to future salary increases.
This amounted to a change in benefits accruing to those members and resulted in a one-off reduction in the ultimate liabilities in respect of these individuals.
During the year, the Group has paid contributions totalling 21.4m 2012: 25.8m to the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme including 8.0m 2012: 10.0m as part of the deficit recovery plan agreed with the scheme trustees following the completion of the 31 March 2009 actuarial valuation.
The estimated amount of contributions expected to be paid by the Group during the next financial year is 22m, all of which relates to the deficit recovery plan agreed following the completion of the 31 March 2012 actuarial valuation.
The amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet are determined as follows: 2013 2012 m m Fair value of scheme assets 833.5 764.4 Present value of funded scheme liabilities 898.0 861.6 Deficit in the funded scheme 64.5 97.2 Present value of unfunded pension arrangements 20.6 18.1 Retirement benefit obligations recognised in the balance sheet 85.1 115.3 The amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement were as follows: 2013 2012 m m Current service cost 14.5 17.2 Curtailment gain 37.4 Discount unwind on scheme liabilities 41.0 43.2 Expected return on scheme assets 44.1 48.0 Total net gain charge recognised in the consolidated income statement 26.0 12.4 The current service cost includes 1.2m 2012: 1.7m in respect of unfunded pension arrangements.
90 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION The net gain charge is recognised in the following line items in the consolidated income statement: 2013 2012 m m Administrative costs before exceptional items 14.5 17.2 Administrative costs exceptional items 37.4 Finance expense note 10 41.0 43.2 Finance income note 10 44.1 48.0 Total net gain charge recognised in the consolidated income statement 26.0 12.4 The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate the present value of the defined benefit obligations were as follows: 2013 2012 % % Rate of inflation 3.4 3.1 Rate of increase for salaries n a 3.1 Rate of increase for pensions in payment 3.3 3.0 Rate of increase for deferred pensions 3.3 3.0 Discount rate 4.7 4.8 Following closure of the scheme to future accrual during the year ended 2 March 2013, the present value of the defined benefit obligations is no longer impacted by increases in salaries.
The impact of changing material assumptions is as follows: 2013 2012 Indicative Indicative Indicative Indicative effect on effect on effect on effect on Increase scheme annual scheme annual decrease in deficit service cost deficit service cost assumptions m m m m Rate of inflation 0.1% - 15.7 n a - 13.7 - 0.6 Rate of increase for salaries 0.1% n a n a - 3.3 - 0.2 Rate of increase for pensions in payment 0.1% - 7.3 n a - 6.2 - 0.4 Rate of increase for deferred pensions 0.1% - 8.3 n a - 4.1 Discount rate 0.1% - 15.9 n a - 14.9 - 0.6 Life expectancy 1 year - 17.5 n a - 17.5 - 0.7 Due to the closure of the scheme to future accrual, there will be no annual service cost in future years.
The discount rate is based on market yields on high-quality corporate bonds of equivalent currency and term to the defined benefit obligations.
The mortality tables used for the IAS 19 valuation have been updated since last year to take into account the results of a postcode mortality analysis carried out for the trustees of the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme as part of their 31 March 2012 actuarial valuation.
Based on the outcome of this analysis, the IAS 19 valuation assumes that mortality will be in line with the SAPS S1 mortality tables for all pensioners based on an individuals year of birth as published by the Institute of Actuaries with a multiplier of 105% applied.
In addition, to allow for future improvements in mortality, the CMI 2011 tables published by the Institute of Actuaries have been used, with an assumed long-term rate of future annual mortality improvements of 1.5%.
The impact of moving to the new mortality tables was to reduce the IAS 19 deficit for the Groups schemes by approximately 12m at 2 March 2013.
Based on these assumptions the average expectation of life on retirement in normal health is assumed to be: 22.2 years at age 65 for a male currently aged 65 2012: 23.3 24.6 years at age 65 for a female currently aged 65 2012: 25.7 23.8 years at age 65 for a male currently aged 50 2012: 24.7 26.3 years at age 65 for a female currently aged 50 2012: 27.2 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 91 FINANCIAL STATEmENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013 24.
POST-EmPLOYmENT BENEFITS Continued The assets of the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme and the expected rates of return are summarised as follows: 2013 2012 Expected Expected Percentage long-term Percentage long-term Fair of scheme rate of Fair of scheme rate of value assets return value assets return m % % pa m % % pa Market value of scheme assets: Equities 226.7 27 7.0 272.7 36 6.9 Fixed interest securities 90.3 10 3.6 41.7 6 4.6 Fund of hedge funds 85.2 10 6.5 125.5 16 6.4 Diversified growth fund 93.1 11 6.5 Insurance policy 262.2 32 4.4 247.7 32 4.7 Property 62.3 8 5.5 56.5 7 5.4 Other 13.7 2 3.0 20.3 3 2.9 833.5 100 5.5 764.4 100 5.8 The expected long-term rate of return on the insurance policy is based on the discount rate applicable to the pensioners liabilities covered by the policy.
This is 0.3% pa 2012: 0.1% lower than the discount rate for the scheme as a whole because the average duration of the pensioners liabilities is around 15 years instead of 23 years for all scheme members and the average corporate bond yield net of inflation at this shorter duration was approximately 0.3% pa 2012: 0.1% lower at 2 March 2013.
The overall expected rate of return on scheme assets is the weighted average of the best estimate of the individual asset categories and their inherent expected rates of return.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit liabilities are as follows: 2013 2012 m m Opening defined benefit liabilities 879.7 756.3 Current service cost 14.5 17.2 Curtailment gain 37.4 Interest cost 41.0 43.2 Contributions paid by employees 4.4 5.2 Actuarial loss on liabilities recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 34.1 76.6 Benefits paid 17.7 18.8 Closing defined benefit liabilities 918.6 879.7 Changes in the market value of the scheme assets are as follows: 2013 2012 m m Opening market value of scheme assets 764.4 748.8 Expected return 44.1 48.0 Actuarial gain loss on assets recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 16.9 44.6 Contributions paid by the Group 21.4 25.8 Contributions paid by employees 4.4 5.2 Benefits paid 17.7 18.8 Closing market value of scheme assets 833.5 764.4 Cumulative actuarial loss included in the statement of comprehensive income 231.3 214.1 The actual return on scheme assets was a gain of 61.0m 2012: 3.4m.
92 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION The Group has in place arrangements which secure unfunded pension benefit arrangements for certain directors and senior managers by granting charges to an independent trustee over independently managed portfolios of marketable securities owned by the Group.
The amount of assets charged in this way is adjusted annually to keep the ratio of assets charged to the discounted value of the accrued benefits secured in this way as close as possible to the corresponding ratio in the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme.
The total value of the assets charged in this way at 2 March 2013 was 20.7m 2012: 16.3m.
The Groups unfunded pension benefit arrangements will close to future accrual with effect from 30 April 2013.
The net curtailment impact of this closure is immaterial.
Further details of the pension arrangements for directors appear in the audited part of the directors remuneration report.
History of experience gains and losses: 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 m m m m m Present value of defined benefit liabilities 918.6 879.7 756.3 692.6 550.8 Fair value of scheme assets 833.5 764.4 748.8 667.7 504.4 Net deficit on the scheme 85.1 115.3 7.5 24.9 46.4 Experience gain loss on scheme liabilities 11.4 0.2 8.1 12.1 1.5 Percentage of scheme liabilities 1.2% 1.1% 1.7% 0.3% Experience gain loss on scheme assets 16.9 44.6 15.3 107.7 194.3 Percentage of scheme assets 2.0% 5.8% 2.0% 16.1% 38.5% Defined contribution schemes The pension cost represents contributions payable by the Group to the defined contribution schemes and amounted to 10.0m 2012: 6.9m.
Contributions totalling 1.4m 2012: 0.6m were payable to the schemes at 2 March 2013 and are included within trade and other payables.
OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Current Non-current Current Non-current 2013 2013 2012 2012 m m m m Other financial assets Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 32.1 6.5 Forward foreign exchange contracts fair value hedges 4.8 1.8 Available-for-sale financial assets 24.4 17.4 Total other financial assets 36.9 24.4 8.3 17.4 Other financial liabilities Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 2.8 5.2 Total other financial liabilities 2.8 5.2 Forward foreign exchange contracts The forward foreign exchange contracts are intended to hedge the foreign currency exposures of future purchases of inventory.
The hedged cash flows are expected to occur up to one year into the future.
Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in shareholders equity on forward foreign exchange contracts as at the year-end will be released within one year from the balance sheet date.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 2 March 2013 were 781.8m 2012: 788.9m.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value or, where fair value cannot be reliably measured, at cost less impairment.
An impairment charge of 3.9m has been taken against the Groups loans to associates following the decision to close HH Retail Limited, the Groups associate in China.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 93 FINANCIAL STATEmENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013 26.
DEFERRED TAX 2013 2012 m m The movements on the net deferred tax account are as follows: At 4 March 2012 28.7 14.9 Income statement charge note 11 10.7 10.8 Rate change impact 0.1 0.1 Tax charged credited to other comprehensive income 4.0 24.7 At 2 march 2013 14.1 28.7 The deferred tax amounts recognised are as follows: Deferred tax assets: Deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than one year 40.7 50.6 Deferred tax liabilities: Deferred tax liability to be settled after more than one year 26.6 21.9 Net deferred tax assets 14.1 28.7 Closing deferred tax has been calculated at the substantively enacted UK corporation tax rate of 23% 2012: 25%, which differs from the UK corporation tax rate applied to the current year adjusted profits at 24%.
The effect of the reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 25% to 23% is a reduction in the net deferred tax asset at the end of 2013 of 1.7m.
Of this 1.7m, 1.8m has been charged directly to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, and a credit of 0.1m has been recognised in the income statement.
The proposed reductions in the main rate of UK corporation tax by 2% to 21% from 1 April 2014 and by a further 1% to 20% from 1 April 2015 are not yet enacted.
The impact of these rate reductions on the net deferred tax asset is not material for each future year at the balance sheet date.
The Group will assess the impact of the reduction in rate in line with its accounting policy in respect of deferred tax at each balance sheet date.
The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: Accelerated Asset tax provisions depreciation Other Total Deferred tax assets m m m m At 4 March 2012 16.0 1.9 32.7 50.6 Income statement credit charge 4.0 1.7 13.3 11.0 Tax credited charged to other comprehensive income 0.4 4.4 4.0 Transfer to deferred tax liabilities 6.8 6.8 Rate change impact 1.3 0.2 0.2 1.7 At 2 march 2013 19.1 21.6 40.7 Accelerated Asset tax provisions depreciation Other Total Deferred tax assets m m m m At 27 February 2011 30.4 9.0 39.4 Income statement charge 12.7 0.9 13.6 Tax charged to other comprehensive income 24.7 24.7 Transfer from deferred tax liabilities 1.9 1.9 Rate change impact 1.7 0.1 1.8 At 3 March 2012 16.0 1.9 32.7 50.6 Other deferred tax assets consist of 19.4m 2012: 29.8m in respect of defined benefit pension obligations and 2.2m 2012: 2.9m in respect of other temporary differences.
94 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION Accelerated Property tax valuations depreciation Other Total Deferred tax liabilities m m m m At 4 March 2012 14.3 7.6 21.9 Income statement credit charge 1.2 0.9 0.3 Transfer from deferred tax assets 6.8 6.8 Rate change impact 1.1 0.6 0.1 1.8 At 2 march 2013 12.0 7.9 6.7 26.6 Accelerated Property tax valuations depreciation Other Total Deferred tax liabilities m m m m At 27 February 2011 16.8 7.7 24.5 Income statement credit 1.4 1.4 2.8 Transfer to deferred tax assets 1.9 1.9 Rate change impact 1.1 0.6 1.7 At 3 March 2012 14.3 7.6 21.9 Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry-forwards and other temporary differences to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through the future taxable profits is probable.
The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets of 25.1m 2012: 27.4m in respect of capital losses, which total 109.3m 2012: 109.6m, that can be carried forward against future taxable gains.
These losses are available indefinitely.
SHARE CAPITAL 2013 2012 Number 2013 Number 2012 of shares m of shares m Allotted, called-up and fully paid Ordinary share capital of 10p each 813,445,001 81.3 813,445,001 81.3 28.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEmENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve arose as a result of the share buy-back programme that was undertaken during the year ended 26 February 2011. merger reserve The merger reserve arose on the demerger of the Group from GUS plc during 2006.
Other reserves Treasury Hedging Translation Total other shares reserve reserve reserves m m m m Balance at 4 March 2012 24.5 0.9 32.2 8.6 Other comprehensive income 21.2 0.7 21.9 Net movement in own shares 1.4 1.4 Balance at 2 march 2013 23.1 22.1 32.9 31.9 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 95 FINANCIAL STATEmENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013 28.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEmENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Continued Treasury Hedging Translation Total other shares reserve reserve reserves m m m m Balance at 27 February 2011 27.3 13.7 35.4 5.6 Other comprehensive income 14.6 3.2 11.4 Net movement in own shares 2.8 2.8 Balance at 3 March 2012 24.5 0.9 32.2 8.6 The movement in own shares of 1.4m 2012: 2.8m represents the utilisation or sale of shares held for the purpose of satisfying obligations arising from the Groups share-based compensation schemes.
Shares in Home Retail Group plc are held in the following trusts: Home Retail Group Employee Share Trust EST The EST provides for the issue of shares to Group employees under share option and share grant schemes with the exception of the Share Incentive Plan.
The shares in the EST are held within equity of the Group at a cost of 20.4m 2012: 21.6m.
No additional shares were purchased during the year 2012: nil.
Dividends on these shares are waived.
Home Retail Group Share Incentive Scheme Trust The Home Retail Group Share Incentive Scheme Trust provides for the issue of shares to Group employees under the Share Incentive Plan.
These shares are held within equity of the Group at a cost of 2.7m 2012: 2.9m.
SHARE-BASED PAYmENT ARRANGEmENTS Summary of the total cost of share-based compensation in respect of ordinary shares in the Company 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 2 march 3 March 2013 2012 m m Share option awards 3.2 1.6 Share grant awards 8.7 7.3 Total expense recognised all equity-settled 11.9 8.9 Summary of share option and share award arrangements During the year ended 2 March 2013, Home Retail Group plc had a number of share option and share award arrangements for its employees, all of which are equity-settled.
Details of these arrangements are as follows: Share options The Home Retail Group plc save-as-you-earn SAYE plan permits the grant to employees of options over the Companys shares linked to a building society save-as-you-earn contract for a term of three or five years with contributions from employees of between 5 and 250 per month.
Options are normally capable of being exercised at the end of the three or five-year period at an exercise price calculated at a 20% discount to market price over the three dealing days preceding invitation to participants.
Options must be exercised within six months of the end of the three or five-year save-asyou-earn contract.
The 1998 approved and non-approved executive share option schemes.
Under these schemes, the exercise price of granted options was equal to the market price of the shares over the three dealing days preceding grant.
The options became exercisable three years from the grant date, subject to the Groups EPS compound annual growth exceeding compound annual retail price inflation by 4% per annum over a continuous three-year period and the employee completing three years service.
The EPS growth target is not a market-based performance condition as defined by IFRS 2.
The options have a maximum term of 10 years from grant.
No new options have been granted under these schemes since 2006 and all outstanding awards have vested.
96 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION Share awards The performance share plan.
Awards made under this plan will normally vest three years after the date of grant for nil consideration.
For all awards under this plan, vesting is conditional on participants continued service.
For those awards with performance conditions, the percentage of the award distributed to participants is determined either by ranking total shareholder return TSR relative to a comparator group or by reference to performance against other specific targets such as EPS growth.
The TSR target is considered a market-based performance condition under IFRS 2, and the awards with this performance condition have been valued using a Monte Carlo simulation with historic volatilities and correlations measured over the three-year period preceding valuation.
The EPS growth target is a non market-based performance condition, and the awards with this performance condition have been valued by reference to the share price at the date of grant.
The plan was amended in 2010 to add an HM Revenue & Customs approved option to the share awards at no additional cost.
The approved option is over the same number of shares as awarded under the normal PSP award, up to a maximum share value of 30,000.
The two awards together give participants the same gross value as the normal PSP award only.
The deferred bonus plan permitted the award of a deferred bonus that was converted into a conditional award of shares and operated for the year ended 27 February 2010 only.
The award was based on performance against a benchmark PBT and a Group net cash target and was made at the maximum of 150% of salary in May 2010.
The grant date was the start of the financial year in which the performance stage was assessed, which was one year before the shares were awarded.
Subject to continued employment the shares will vest and be released on a phased basis, for nil consideration.
1 6 vested on the first anniversary of the award, 2 6 vested on the second anniversary and 3 6 will vest on the third anniversary.
The deferred share plan is a discretionary award of deferred shares.
This award has no performance conditions, other than a level of personal performance.
Awards made under this plan vest on a phased basis for nil consideration: being 1 6 one year after the award is made, 2 6 two years after the award is made and 3 6 three years after the award is made.
The executive directors did not participate in this plan and new awards were last granted under this plan during the year ended 26 February 2011.
The share incentive plan was a one-off free share grant to all employees at the time of the demerger.
The shares were acquired by a trust on behalf of participants and were normally forfeited if a participants employment with the Group ceased within three years of the grant date.
All awards under this plan vested after this initial three-year period in November 2009, at which point participants were able to withdraw their shares, and since November 2011 shares can be withdrawn free of tax.
The shares continue to be held by the trust until they are either withdrawn by participants or the awards lapse.
Information relating to share option valuation techniques The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year over the Companys shares under the Home Retail Group plc SAYE plan, determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, was 0.14 2012: 0.15 per option.
The significant inputs into the option pricing model were as follows: 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 2 march 3 March 2013 2012 Weighted average: Share price on grant date 0.86 1.64 Exercise price 0.59 1.71 Expected volatility 46.2% 43.6% Expected dividend yield 5.5% 7.6% Risk free interest rate 1.0% 1.7% Expected option life to exercise 3.5 years 3.4 years Expected volatility is a measure of expected fluctuations in the share price over the expected life of an option.
For each financial year the measure of volatility used by the Company in its pricing model has been calculated by using implied volatility from market quoted prices of traded options over the Companys shares.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 97 FINANCIAL STATEmENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013 29.
SHARE-BASED PAYmENT ARRANGEmENTS Continued Reconciliation of movement in the number of share options 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 2 march 2013 3 March 2012 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise price Number of exercise price options options Outstanding at beginning of year 14,656,289 2.26 18,843,864 2.33 Granted 38,322,492 0.59 6,256,209 1.71 Forfeited 8,257,324 1.57 9,687,576 1.96 Exercised 6,750 0.59 19,709 1.90 Expired 1,575,700 2.46 736,499 3.73 Outstanding at year-end 43,139,007 0.90 14,656,289 2.26 Exercisable at year-end 2,795,856 3.53 3,102,350 3.54 The weighted average share price for share options exercised during the year was 1.23 2012: 2.16.
Share options outstanding at the end of the year Share options at the end of the year had the following exercise prices and remaining contractual lives: As at 2 march 2013 Weighted Weighted average average remaining lives exercise Range of exercise prices Number of price Expected Contractual options years years Up to 0.99 36,144,602 0.59 3.0 3.5 1.00 1.99 2,922,978 1.76 1.3 2.0 2.00 2.99 1,366,766 2.01 1.2 1.7 3.00 3.99 2,704,661 3.60 2.2 As at 3 March 2012 Weighted Weighted average average remaining lives exercise Range of exercise prices Number of price Expected Contractual options years years 1.00 1.99 7,712,241 1.77 2.4 2.9 2.00 2.99 3,493,512 2.00 1.7 2.2 3.00 3.99 3,450,536 3.63 0.1 2.9 Information relating to share award valuation techniques The value of the awards is determined as the observed market closing share price on the date awarded grants are issued to participants.
For the deferred bonus plan, this occurred after the first year of performance was assessed.
The performance share plans market-based performance condition is included in the fair value measurement on grant date and is not revised for actual performance.
All of the share awards are equity-settled.
Under the share awards, the participants have an entitlement to either dividend equivalents or dividend distributions from issue date until point of vesting.
The observed market share price on the day of valuation is considered inclusive of future dividend distributions.
There were 23,408,568 ordinary share awards 2012: 8,663,902 granted during the year with a weighted average fair value of 0.51 2012: 1.66.
98 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION 30.
OPERATING LEASES 2013 2012 m m Future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Less than one year 342.6 357.8 Between one and five years 1,182.7 1,248.7 More than five years 1,436.5 1,678.2 Total operating leases 2,961.8 3,284.7 The Group leases various retail stores, offices and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms and renewal rights.
COmmITmENTS 2013 2012 m m Capital expenditure for which contracts have been placed: Property, plant and equipment 15.4 2.6 Intangible assets 1.0 2.0 Total commitments 16.4 4.6 In addition, in 2012 the Group was committed to providing 9.1m to its associate, HH Retail Limited and its subsidiaries, by way of equity and loans, with a further 12.8m becoming payable subject to the fulfilment of certain conditions.
No such commitment exists at the current year-end.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES There are a number of contingent liabilities that arise in the normal course of business which, if realised, are not expected to result in a material liability to the Group.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEmENT OF CASH FLOWS 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 2 march 3 March 2013 2012 Cash generated from operations m m Profit before tax 130.1 104.1 Adjustments for: Share of post-tax loss profit of associates 6.0 0.5 Net financing expense income 1.3 4.9 Operating profit 137.4 98.7 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.2 1.8 Depreciation and amortisation 124.7 126.5 Finance expense charged to Financial Services cost of sales 3.1 3.4 Increase decrease in inventories 8.6 85.8 Increase decrease in receivables 40.9 16.1 Increase decrease in payables 163.4 102.5 Movement in working capital 113.9 0.6 Decrease increase in provisions 24.5 5.0 Movement in retirement benefit obligations 44.3 8.6 Share-based payment expense net of dividend equivalent payments 11.6 8.3 Cash generated from operations 322.1 234.5 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 99 FINANCIAL STATEmENTS Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013 34.
RELATED PARTIES The ultimate parent company of the Group is Home Retail Group plc.
The principal subsidiary and associated undertakings at 2 March 2013 are shown in note 36.
Transactions between Home Retail Group plc and its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions carried out with related parties in the normal course of business are summarised below: Associates During the year, the Group granted loans totalling 6.8m 2012: 1.2m to its associates and invested 2.4m 2012: nil in the share capital of its associates.
At 2 March 2013, the amounts owed by its associates to the Group totalled 3.7m 2012: 1.1m, after taking account of impairment losses totalling 3.9m 2012: nil following the decision to close HH Retail Limited, the Groups associate in China.
Key management personnel Remuneration of key management personnel is disclosed in note 8.
During the year, there were no material transactions or balances between the Group and its key management personnel or members of their close families.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS On 8 March 2013, the Group completed the sale of its 33% stake in Ogalas Limited, an Irish company trading as home store more in the Republic of Ireland.
The Group received 9.7m for its shareholding and a loan repayment of 1.2m.
After taking account of transaction costs, the proceeds approximate to the carrying value of the Groups investment in Ogalas Limited so no material profit or loss is expected on the sale, prior to the recycling of approximately 1m of exchange gains from the Groups translation reserve.
As a result, the Groups interest in Ogalas Limited, reported as an associate, has been reclassified to non-current assets held for sale in the Groups balance sheet as at 2 March 2013.
On 27 March 2013, the Group entered into a new unsecured three-year multi-currency revolving credit facility of 165m with a syndicate of banks.
On the same day, the Group cancelled its existing 685m facility.
PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATED UNDERTAKINGS Country of Percentage of Description incorporation ordinary shares held Home Retail Group UK Limited Group holding company England 100 Argos Limited General merchandise retailing England 100 Argos Distributors Ireland Limited General merchandise retailing Republic of Ireland 100 Homebase Limited Home enhancement retailing England 100 Homebase House and Garden Centre Limited Home enhancement retailing Republic of Ireland 100 Hampden Group Limited Home enhancement retailing Northern Ireland 100 Home Retail Group Card Services Limited Financial services England 100 ARG Personal Loans Limited Financial services England 100 Argos Business Solutions Limited Financial services England 100 Home Retail Group Insurance Services Limited Financial services England 100 Home Retail Group Hong Kong Limited Product sourcing for the Hong Kong 100 Home Retail Group companies Held directly by the Parent Company.
Details of interests in associated undertakings are given within note 17.
100 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013
