GOVERNANCE Board of Directors and Operating Board John Coombe Terry Duddy Richard Ashton mike Darcey Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Non-Executive Director Ian Durant Cath keers Jacqueline fide Rojas Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Paul Loft John Walden Greg Ball Peter Connor Managing Director, Homebase Managing Director, Argos Managing Director, Customer Information Systems Director and Financial Services maria Thompson Julie Elder Gordon Bentley Commercial Director Human Resources Director Company Secretary 32 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS PROFILES Lexecon, Putnam Hayes & Bartlett and KPMG, BOARD COmmITTEES working across a wide range of industries, John Coombe, Chairman 68 Audit Committee: with particular focus on entertainment and John held a number of senior financial roles Ian Durant Chairman, Mike Darcey, telecommunications.
Mike joined Home Retail within Charterhouse Group and Charter Cath Keers, Jacqueline fide Rojas Group in April 2010 and was appointed Senior Consolidated before joining Glaxo Holdings Independent Director in July 2012.
Appointed to the board in 1992, Cath Keers Chairman, John Coombe, he was ultimately Chief Financial Officer of Ian Durant, Non-Executive Director 54 Mike Darcey, Ian Durant, Jacqueline fide Rojas GlaxoSmithKline for five years before retiring Ian is a former Finance Director of Liberty in 2005.
He joined the GUS board in 2005 and International renamed Intu Properties and is Nomination Committee: became the Senior Independent Director of Chairman of Capital & Counties Properties and John Coombe Chairman, Mike Darcey, Home Retail Group in October 2006 and a Non-Executive Director of both Greene King Terry Duddy, Ian Durant, Cath Keers, Chairman in 2012.
He is a Non-Executive and Greggs.
In his earlier career he worked Jacqueline fide Rojas Director of HSBC Holdings, Chairman of for Hanson and Jardine Matheson and was Hogg Robinson Group and a former member Finance Director of Hongkong Land, Dairy of the Code Committee of the Panel of Farm International and Thistle Hotels and Chief Takeover and Mergers and of the UK Finance Officer of SeaContainers.
He joined the Accounting Standards Board.
Home Retail Group Board in July 2011.
Terry Duddy, Chief Executive 57 Cath keers, Non-Executive Director 48 Terry began his career at Letraset and joined Cath started her retail career with Thorn EMI Dixons Stores Group in 1984, holding positions and, after marketing and business development including Sales Director of Currys, Product roles at Sky TV, Avon and Next, joined the Marketing Director of Dixons Stores Group and BT Group in 1996, holding a number of Managing Director of PC World.
He joined GUS commercial roles, including Marketing Director in 1998 as Chief Executive of the newly acquired O2, Chairman of Tesco Mobile and Customer Argos, becoming a GUS director later that year.
She is a Non-Executive Director He was appointed Chief Executive of Argos Retail of Telefonica O2 Europe, the Royal Mail Group Group in 2000 and of Home Retail Group in and LV.
Cath joined the Home Retail Group October 2006.
He is a Non-Executive Director Board in September 2011. of Hammerson.
Jacqueline fide Rojas, Non-Executive Director 50 Richard Ashton, Finance Director 46 Jacqueline is the Vice President and General Richard started his career at Manager of CA United Kingdom & Ireland.
, where he trained She previously performed leadership roles at as a chartered accountant, and joined GE McAfee, Novell, Business Objects and Informix.
in 1994, spending eight years in a variety She holds external positions as Advisor to the of positions including Chief Financial Officer Board at Bazaarvoice Inc, a judge on Women of GE Capitals pan-European equipmentin Technology awards 2012 and 2013 and financing business, assistant to GE Capitals Member of Princes Trust Technology Chief Financial Officer in the US and various Leadership Group.
Jacqueline was appointed finance roles in the UK.
He joined Argos Retail to the Home Retail Group Board in Group as Finance Director in 2001 and, in December 2012.
October 2006, became Finance Director of Home Retail Group.
Biographies of members of the Operating mike Darcey, Non-Executive Director 47 Board can be found on our corporate website Mike took up the position of Chief Executive www.
Officer of NI Group Ltd in January 2013 following 15 years with BSkyB, where he had been Chief Operating Officer since 2006.
Prior to BSkyB Mike was an economic advisor with a number of consulting companies including Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 33
