Other Information Glossary AGM Annual General Meeting.
AMG Advanced Manufacturing Group combines the precision engineering and manufacturing capabilities in the Well Construction segment for the Electronics division Hunting Innova, Hunting Dearborn and Hunting Doffing product lines.
Hunting is aiming to become a leading single source of MWD LWD tools.
Average gross capital The monthly average of the aggregate of capital employed.
employed Basic EPS Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings from continuing operations attributable to Ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year.
bbl Barrel of oil one barrel of oil equals 159 litres or 42 US gallons.
boe Barrels of oil equivalent.
Board The Board of Directors of the Company.
Capital employed The amount of capital available to the Group to invest in its business and comprises the total equity plus net debt.
Capital expenditure Capex Cash spend on tangible non-current assets.
2 CODM Chief operating decision maker.
DPS Dividend per share the amount in pence returned to Ordinary shareholders.
Figures shown are calculated on an accruals basis.
Diluted EPS Diluted earnings per share earnings from continuing operations before amortisation and exceptional items, attributable to Ordinary shareholders, divided by the weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year, as adjusted for all potentially dilutive Ordinary shares.
Dividend cover An indication of the Companys ability to maintain the level of its dividend and is calculated as earnings from continuing operations attributable to Ordinary shareholders divided by the cash dividend to be returned to Ordinary shareholders, on an accruals basis.
Downhole Downhole refers to something that is located within the wellbore.
DTR Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
EBITDA EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure and is defined as pre-exceptional earnings before share of associates post-tax profits, interest, tax, depreciation, impairment and amortisation.
ESOP Executive Share Option Plan.
Free cash flow Free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure and is defined as profit from continuing operations adjusted for working capital, tax, replacement capital expenditure and interest.
FTSE Financial Times Stock Exchange.
FY The twelve months ending 31 December of a given year.
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Gearing Net debt as a percentage of total equity.
152 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Other Information GHG Greenhouse gas.
Group The Company and its subsidiaries.
Growth capital expenditure Capital expenditure to grow the business from current operating levels and enhance operating activity.
H1 The six months ended 30 June of a given financial year.
H2 The six months ended 31 December of a given financial year.
HEMS Hunting Equipment Management Services provide downhole tool rental equipment in the Well Construction segment.
HMRC HM Revenue and Customs.
HS&E Health, safety and environment.
Hunting The Company and its subsidiaries.
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee interpretation.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
Inventory and WIP days Inventory and WIP at the year end divided by revenue per day, adjusted for the impact of acquisitions.
LEAN or Lean A production practice that eliminates wasteful processes, thereby reducing production time and costs, and improving efficiency.
LIBOR London Inter-bank Offered Rate.
MENA Middle East and North Africa region.
mmBtu Million British Thermal Units.
NEB Net equivalent barrels of oil.
Net debt Net debt comprises bank overdrafts, current and non-current borrowings and finance leases less cash and cash equivalents and investments.
OCTG Oil Country Tubular Goods pipe and tubular goods and products used in the oil and gas industry, such as drill pipe, pipe casings and production pipes.
Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 153 Other Information Glossary continued Replacement capital Capital expenditure necessary to maintain existing levels of operating activity.
expenditure Reported Results for the year as reported under IFRS.
ROCE Return on average capital employed measures profit before interest and tax before amortisation and exceptional items, as a percentage of average gross capital employed.
Scope 1 Scope 1 emissions are direct GHG emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by the entity.
Scope 1 emissions include fossil fuels burned on site, emissions from vehicles and other direct sources.
Scope 2 Scope 2 emissions are indirect GHG emissions resulting from the generation of electricity, heating and cooling or steam generated off site but purchased by the entity.
Trade payable days The average number of days credit taken by the Group, calculated as trade payables at the year end divided by cost of sales per day, adjusted for the impact of acquisitions.
Trade receivable days The average number of days credit given to the Groups customers, calculated as trade receivables at the year end divided by revenue per day, adjusted for the impact of acquisitions.
TSR Total Shareholder Return the net share price change plus the dividends paid during that period.
TSR % Total Shareholder Return % Share price end of period Share price start of period Dividends paid Share price start of period.
UAE The Federation of the United Arab Emirates.
Underlying Results for the year, as reported under IFRS, adjusted for amortisation and exceptional items, which is the basis used by the Directors in assessing performance.
US or USA United States of America.
US$ or $ United States dollar.
Wellbore The wellbore refers to the drilled hole.
Well completion Well completion refers to the processes of preparing a well for production.
This involves the assembly of downhole tubulars and equipment required to enable safe and efficient production from an oil or gas well.
Well construction Well construction refers to the initial drilling and processes of constructing the wellbore in an oil and gas well.
These processes typically include drilling and logging the hole: running, cementing and logging the casing: hydraulic fracturing or stimulating the well and monitoring well performance and integrity.
Well intervention Well intervention refers to any operation carried out on an oil or gas well that maintains or enhances the production of the well or provides well diagnostics.
Working capital Trade and other receivables, excluding receivables from associates, derivative financial assets, environmental escrow and promissory notes, plus inventories less trade and other payables, excluding payables due to associates, derivative financial liabilities, dividend liabilities and retirement plan obligations.
WTI West Texas Intermediate the price per barrel of Texas light sweet crude oil.
154 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Other Information Notes Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 155 Other Information Notes 156 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Professional Advisers Solicitors CMS Cameron McKenna LLP Auditors  LLP Joint Corporate Brokers Deutsche Bank and Barclays Bank Financial Advisers DC Advisory Partners Limited Insurance Brokers Willis Limited Pension Advisers & Actuary Lane Clark & Peacock LLP Financial Public Relations Buchanan Communications Limited Registrars & Transfer Office Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road, Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone UK : 0871 384 2173 Overseas: 44 0 121 415 7047 Company Contact Details Registered Office: 5 Hanover Square, London W1S 1HQ Registered Number: 974568 Registered in England and Wales Telephone: 44 0 20 7321 0123 Facsimile: 44 0 20 7839 2072 www.
com Designed by Emperor Printed by Park Communications on paper manufactured from Elemental Chlorine Free ECF pulp sourced from sustainable forests Park Communications is certified to ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management System and the EU Eco-Management and Audit Scheme EMAS Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Hunting PLC 5 Hanover Square London W1S 1HQ Tel: 44 0 20 7321 0123 Fax: 44 0 20 7839 2072 www.
