Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Accounting policies General Imagination Technologies Group plc is a company incorporated in the UK.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
Significant accounting policies Statement of compliance The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
The Group has elected to prepare its parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented on pages 104 to 107.
Basis of preparation The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
There were no new standards and amendments to standards as adopted by the European Union at 30 April 2012, mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 May 2012, that had an impact on the Group.
Judgements made by the directors in the application of these accounting policies that have significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed below under Significant accounting judgements and estimates.
Measurement convention The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the investments have been stated at fair value in accordance with IAS 39.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and financial statements.
The Group has adequate financial resources together with long term contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across a range of consumer market segments and geographic areas.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
Further information regarding the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position is set out in the Chief Executives review on pages 3 to 11.
Further information regarding the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in notes 12, 14 and 19.
In addition, note 19 to the financial statements includes: the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Basis of consolidation subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Business combinations The Group has applied IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised 2008 in accounting for business combinations.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefit from its activities.
In assessing control, the Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that currently are exercisable.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control passes.
The Group measures goodwill as the fair value of the consideration paid or payable less the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities assumed and contingent liabilities acquired, all measured as of the acquisition date.
