Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Accounting policies General Imagination Technologies Group plc is a company incorporated in the UK.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
Significant accounting policies Statement of compliance The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
The Group has elected to prepare its parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented on pages 104 to 107.
Basis of preparation The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
There were no new standards and amendments to standards as adopted by the European Union at 30 April 2012, mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 May 2012, that had an impact on the Group.
Judgements made by the directors in the application of these accounting policies that have significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed below under Significant accounting judgements and estimates.
Measurement convention The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the investments have been stated at fair value in accordance with IAS 39.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and financial statements.
The Group has adequate financial resources together with long term contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across a range of consumer market segments and geographic areas.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
Further information regarding the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position is set out in the Chief Executives review on pages 3 to 11.
Further information regarding the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in notes 12, 14 and 19.
In addition, note 19 to the financial statements includes: the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Basis of consolidation subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Business combinations The Group has applied IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised 2008 in accounting for business combinations.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefit from its activities.
In assessing control, the Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that currently are exercisable.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control passes.
The Group measures goodwill as the fair value of the consideration paid or payable less the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities assumed and contingent liabilities acquired, all measured as of the acquisition date.
71 The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships.
Such amounts are generally recognized in the income statement.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of equity securities, that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
See note 24 for the application of the policy to the business combinations that occurred during the period.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognized at fair value at the acquisition date.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognized in the income statement.
Revenue Revenue comprises of: the value of consideration received for sales of licenses to the Groups technology, royalties arising from the resulting sale of licensees products embedded with the Groups technology, development income, support, maintenance, training, and the sale of goods.
The Group follows the principles of IAS 18 Revenue recognition.
Revenue associated with the sales of goods is recognized when all of the following conditions are satisfied: The Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership to the buyer: The Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership nor effective control over the goods sold: The amount of revenue can be measured reliably: It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow into the Group: and The costs incurred and or to be incurred can be measured reliably.
Revenue associated with the provision of services is recognized when all of the following conditions are satisfied: The amount of revenue can be measured reliably: It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow into the Group: The stage of completion of the transaction as at the end of the reporting period can be measured reliably: and The costs incurred, or to be incurred for the transaction can be measured reliably.
Therefore, revenue from standard licenses is recognized on delivery to the customer, which is when it is considered the above conditions are met.
Revenue on licence agreements for products which are either not finished or which need to be modified to meet specific customer requirements is recognized on a  basis over the period from starting development of the product to delivery.
The  is measured by monitoring progress compared with the total estimated project requirement.
Progress is measured by an assessment of performance against key development milestones.
Revenue associated with rights in license agreements to unspecified current and future products is recognized under a subscription accounting basis, on a straight-line basis over the term of the arrangement.
Revenue on development work is recognized on a  basis over the period from the start of the development to delivery.
Development work is normally invoiced as milestones are achieved.
Where invoicing milestones on licence or development arrangements are such that the proportion of work performed is greater than the proportion of the total contract value which has been invoiced, the Group evaluates whether it has obtained, through its performance to date, the right to the un-invoiced consideration and therefore whether revenue should be recognized.
In particular it considers whether there is sufficient certainty that the invoice milestones will be achieved in the expected timeframe, that the customer considers that the Groups contractual obligations have been, or will be, fulfilled and that only those costs budgeted to be incurred will be incurred.
Where the Group considers that there is insufficient evidence that it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow into the Group, taking into account these criteria, revenue is not recognized until there is sufficient evidence that it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow into the Group.
72 Where an agreement involves several components, the total fee is allocated to individual components based on the fair value of the components.
The fair value is assessed by reference to prices regularly charged for the components when sold separately, or if this cannot be used, then other factors may be considered, such as the excess of similar agreements over the charges of separately identifiable components.
If the fair value of a component is not determinable, then the total fee is deferred until the fair value is determinable, or the component has been delivered to the customer.
Where, in effect, two or more components of an agreement are linked and fair values cannot be allocated to the individual components, the revenue recognition criteria are applied to the components as if they were a single component.
Revenue for maintenance is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period for which maintenance is contractually agreed with the licensee.
The excess of licence fees, development income and maintenance invoiced over revenue recognized is recorded as deferred income.
Royalty revenues are earned on the sale by licensees of products containing the Groups technology.
Revenues are recognized as they are earned to the extent that the Group has sufficient evidence of sales of products containing the Groups technology by licensees.
Notification is generally received in the quarter following the shipment of the customers products.
Revenues from the sale of goods are recognized upon delivery.
Revenue is accounted for net of VAT, discounts and returns.
Returns are recognized at the point at which the Group has adequate knowledge that products are likely to be returned by a customer.
As disclosed above, in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors, the Group makes significant estimates in applying its revenue recognition policies.
Estimates are made in particular, in regards to the  accounting method, which requires that the extent of progress towards completion of contracts may be anticipated with reasonable certainty.
The use of this method is based on the assumption that, at the outset of licence agreements, there is an insignificant risk that customer acceptance will not be obtained.
The Group also makes assessments, based on prior experience, of the extent to which future milestone receipts represent a probable future economic benefit to the Group.
The complexity of the estimation process and issues related to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent with the application of the revenue recognition policies affect the amounts reported in the financial statements.
If different assumptions were used, it is possible that different amounts would be reported in the financial statements.
Research and development costs Costs of basic and applied research are written off in the period in which they are incurred.
Development expenditure is capitalized where it relates to a specific project where technical and commercial feasibility has been established, adequate technical, financial and other resources exist to complete the project, the expenditure attributable to the project can be measured reliably and future economic benefits are probable.
In this case, it is recognized as an intangible asset and amortized over its useful economic life.
All other development expenditure is recognized as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Development costs incurred after the establishment of technical feasibility and overall project and commercial profitability have not been significant and, therefore, no costs have been capitalized to date.
Employee benefits The Group contributes to a defined contribution pension plan.
Payments are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate.
Share-based payment transactions The share option programmes and the share incentive arrangements allow employees to acquire shares of the Company.
The fair value of share incentives is recognized as an expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the share incentives.
The fair value of the share incentives granted is measured using the Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo Simulation models.
The amount recognized as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share incentives that vest except where forfeiture is due only to market-based performance conditions not meeting the threshold for vesting.
Transactions of the Company-sponsored Employee Benefit Trust are included in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
In particular, the Trusts purchase of shares in the Company is debited directly in equity to retained earnings.
73 Taxation Tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognized in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognized directly in equity, in which case it is recognized in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method on any temporary differences between the carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes and those for taxation purposes.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Temporary differences on goodwill are not provided for as are not deductible for tax purposes.
A deferred tax asset is recognized only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilized.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer possible that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Foreign exchange Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of Group entities at the rates of exchange ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange gains and losses are taken to the income statement.
On consolidation, results of foreign subsidiary undertakings are translated at the average rates of exchange for the year.
The assets and liabilities are translated at rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising from retranslation have been recognized directly in the statement of other comprehensive income.
The presentational currency is GBP.
Segment reporting An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Groups other components.
All operating segments operating results are reviewed regularly by the board of directors to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are stated at cost of acquisition and amortized on a straight line basis over their estimated useful economic lives.
The residual values of intangible assets are assumed to be nil.
Useful economic lives are reviewed on an annual basis.
When the Group makes an acquisition, management review the business and assets acquired to determine whether any intangible assets should be recognized separately from goodwill.
Fair value of the intangible assets is assessed assuming a hypothetical market.
The Group utilizes the income based approach when reliable future cash flows are available.
Alternatively, the cost approach or market approach are utilized.
The amortization rates applied are: Developed technology 5 to 10 years Customer relationships 10 years Trade names 15 years In process R&D 5 years once complete Software, patents & trademarks 2 to 5 years Trade investments Trade investments are classified as available for sale and are stated on the balance sheet at the fair value at the balance sheet date, with any gain or loss being recognized directly in the statement of comprehensive income.
Impairment losses and gains or losses on initial recognition are recognized in the income statement.
When these investments are derecognized, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognized directly in equity is recognized in income statement.
The fair value of unquoted investments is made by reference to recent funding rounds or, in the absence of the former, to a discounted cash-flow forecast.
The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk on available for sale financial assets.
As there can be no guarantee that there will be a future market for securities or that the value of such investments will rise, the directors evaluate each investment opportunity on its merits before committing the Groups funds.
The directors review holdings in such companies on a regular basis to determine whether continued 74 investment is in the best interests of the Group.
Funds for such ventures are limited in order that the financial effect of any potential decline of the value of investments will not be substantial in the context of the Groups financial results.
Further details of these investments and the valuation basis are detailed in note 9 and note 19.
Goodwill Purchased goodwill representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration paid or payable over the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions is capitalized.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units expected to benefit from the acquisition and is not amortized but tested annually for impairment.
Any impairment is recognized immediately in the income statement and may not be subsequently reversed.
Impairment testing is based on assets grouped at the lowest possible level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
On disposal of a subsidiary or business, the attributable goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill is stated on the balance sheet at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Business combinations that took place prior to 1 April 2004 have not been re-stated and goodwill represents the amount recognized under the Groups previous accounting framework.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Property, plant and equipment are depreciated to write down their cost using the straight line method to their estimated residual values over the period of their estimated useful economic lives.
Periodic reviews are made of estimated remaining useful economic lives and residual values, and the depreciation rates applied are: Freehold land No depreciation Freehold buildings 50 years Leasehold improvements Equally over the period of the lease Plant and equipment 3 to 10 years Motor vehicles 4 years Impairment Non-financial assets Goodwill has an indefinite useful life, is not subject to amortization and is tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortization or depreciation are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
If any such condition exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, estimates are made of the cashflows of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell, and value in use.
In assessing value in use, estimated future cashflows are discounted to their present value using a discount rate appropriate to the specific asset or cash generating unit.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying value of the asset or cash generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognized immediately in the income statement.
In respect of assets other than goodwill, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortization, if no impairment loss had been recognized.
Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
Financial assets A financial asset is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates that one or more events have had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortized cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount, and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
An impairment loss in respect of an available-for-sale financial asset is calculated by reference to its current fair value.
75 Individually significant financial assets are tested for impairment on an individual basis.
The remaining financial assets are assessed collectively in groups that share similar credit risk characteristics.
All impairment losses are recognized in the income statement.
Any cumulative gain or loss in respect of an available-for-sale financial asset recognized previously in equity is transferred to the income statement.
An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognized.
For financial assets measured at amortized cost and available-for-sale financial assets that are debt securities, the reversal is recognized in profit or loss.
For available-for-sale financial assets that are equity securities, the reversal is recognized directly in equity.
Derivative financial instruments Currency exchange contracts are utilized to manage the exchange risk on actual transactions related to accounts receivable, denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the business.
These currency exchange contracts do not subject the Group to risk from exchange rate movements because the gains and losses on such contracts offset losses and gains, respectively, on the transactions being hedged.
The currency exchange contracts and related accounts receivable are recorded at fair value at each period end.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of foreign currency options is based upon valuations performed by management and the respective banks holding the currency instruments.
All recognized gains and losses resulting from the settlement of the contracts are recorded within general and administrative expenses in the income statement.
The Group does not enter into currency exchange contracts for the purpose of hedging anticipated transactions.
Inventories Inventory is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of inventory is calculated using the FIFO method.
Finished goods include direct costs and attributable overheads based on the normal level of activity.
Cash and equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of less than or equal to three months.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose only of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are initially measured at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
Long term borrowing Long term borrowings are recognized initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, long term borrowings are stated at amortized cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognized in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straightline basis over the period of the lease.
Significant accounting judgements and estimates In applying the Groups accounting policies described above, management has made the following judgements and estimates that have a significant impact on the amounts recognized in the financial statements: Revenue recognition The Group has made estimates on the  for licensing and development work which affect the amount of revenue recognized in the period.
These estimates involve the Group assessing the estimated resource and time required to complete development projects.
Please refer to the final paragraph of the Revenue accounting policy disclosed above.
Share based payments The fair value of the share incentives is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the incentives.
The fair value of the share incentives is measured using the Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo Simulation models which take into account the terms and conditions upon which the award was made.
In determining the appropriate 76 expense, the Group has made estimates on the likelihood that internal performance targets will be achieved and on the number of employees that will be employed on vesting.
Details of share-based payments and the assumptions applied are disclosed in note 21.
Taxation A deferred tax asset note 5 is recognized only to the extent that it is probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to utilize the temporary difference.
The Group has made estimates on the likelihood that future taxable profit will utilize these tax losses.
Impairment of goodwill The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at a minimum on an annual basis.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which the goodwill relates.
Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash generating unit that holds the goodwill at a determined discount rate and an appropriate growth rate to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
Details of assumptions used are set out in note 7. Business combinations The Group measures contingent consideration at fair value at the acquisition date and assesses any changes in fair value on an annual basis.
This requires the Group to make an estimate of the future payables in respect of the contingent consideration.
Details of the assessment performed in the current year are set out in notes 13 and 15.
Valuation of acquired intangible assets When the Group makes an acquisition, management review the business and assets acquired to determine whether any intangible assets should be recognized separately from goodwill.
If such an asset is identified, then it is valued by discounting the probable future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset over the estimated life of the asset, or where future cashflows are less certain, by discounting the cost of replicating such intangible asset.
Where there is uncertainty over the amount of economic benefit and the useful life, this is factored into the calculation note 24.
Investments The Group has stated trade investments at fair value.
Adopted IFRS not yet applied The following accounting standards, amendments and interpretations had been issued but they are not yet effective for the Group and have not been early adopted.
Their adoption is not expected to have a material effect on the financial statements unless otherwise indicated: Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income Amendments to IAS 1 effective for annual periods being on or after 1 July 2012 Annual improvements to IFRS 2009 2011 Cycle effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 Amendments to IFRS 7: Disclosur es Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 Amendments to IAS 32: Of fsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 77
