1 Accounting policies The parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the financial statements.
There are no new accounting policies which would have a significant impact in the current year.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK Accounting Standards and under the historical accounting rules.
The following principal accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the period and preceding year in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Companys financial statements.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis which assumes that the Company will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
The Company made a profit for the year of 571,000 2012: 1,200,000 loss.
Under Financial Reporting Standard 1 the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that it is included in the consolidated accounts which it has prepared.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 and has therefore not disclosed transactions or balances with its subsidiaries.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the contracted rate or rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains or losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any provisions for impairment.
Details of the Companys subsidiary undertakings are included in note 23 of the Group financial statements.
Share based payment The fair value of options granted is recognized as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using an option pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognized as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
As the Company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries, in accordance with UITF 44, it recognizes an increase in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled share-based payment charge recognized in its subsidiarys financial statements with the corresponding credit being recognized directly in equity.
Transactions of the Companys Employee Benefit Trust are included in the Groups financial statements.
In particular, the Trusts purchases and sales of shares in the Company are debited and credited directly to equity.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit or loss for the period and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognized in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19.
Related parties The Company has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries see note 23 and with its Board of Directors see the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 65.
Details of Remuneration of Key Management Personnel are disclosed in note 22.
