Group Overview Business Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Resources Director, Susan Hall from 1July 2013, Group review of the engagement of independent remuneration Reward Manager, Liz Rose, and the Company Secretary, John consultants and other advisers to the Committee: OShea, who is secretary to the Committee.
None of these a review of the Committees own performance, constitution executives were involved in determining their own remuneration.
and terms of reference: and External advisers to the Committee review and approval of the retirement terms for Martin Lamb and the recruitment terms for Mark Selway.
Independent remuneration advisers, Towers Watson, are formally appointed by the Committee and provided advice on directors remuneration to the Committee in 2013.
Voting outcome at the 2013 Annual General Meeting Towers Watson notified the Committee that the firm are The following table summarises the details of votes cast actuaries and administrators for the IMI Pension Fund.
in respect of the resolution to approve the Directors The Committee was comfortable that this did not represent Remuneration Report at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
a conflict of interest and that objective and independent advice While the Committee was pleased with the level of support would continue to be received by the Committee from Towers shown by shareholders in respect of this resolution, Watson.
During 2013, Towers Watson has also supported consideration was given to those shareholders that did not management on some broader reward and human resource vote in favour of the Directors Remuneration Report.
The fees charged by Towers Watson in respect of particular, the Committee was briefed on why Aviva a major Committee advice and services totalled 190,000 in 2013. shareholder voted against the resolution and this feedback Towers Watson are signatories to the Remuneration informed the reduction in pension provision for new hires.
Consultants Code of Conduct in the UK and the terms of engagement with Towers Watson are available on request As in previous years, details of the voting on all resolutions from the Company Secretary.
at the 2014 Annual General Meeting will be announced via the RNS and posted on the IMI website following the Annual Finally, in conjunction with the retirement of Martin Lamb General Meeting.
and the appointment of Mark Selway as Chief Executive the Committee engaged the services of Covington & Burling Votes for Votes against Total votes cast Votes withheld LLP.
Covington & Burling LLP have previously represented abstentions IMI in the USA and were appointed based on both this and 211,345,514 7,230,257 218,575,771 2,320,001 external recommendations.
In respect of their services to the Committee, Covington & Burling LLP charged 24,930 in 2013.
96.69% 3.31% 68.50% of ISC - ISC: Issued Share Capital A summary of the Committee activities during 2013 The Committee had four meetings during the year.
The principal agenda items were as follows: a review of total compensation packages of the executive directors and the most senior management of the Company: approval of achievements and outcomes under the incentive plans: setting the framework and target levels for the 2013 incentive cycle: approval of the granting of share awards to other levels of management: discussing the new remuneration regulations, reviewing policies and draft disclosures: a review of the UK corporate governance environment: a risk review of the remuneration framework: consideration of the Chairmans fees:
