92 IMI plc SECTION 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION 1.1 1.3 Introduction Basis of accounting IMI plc the Company is a Company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling which is the The consolidated financial statements of the Company comprise the Company Companys functional currency, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand, and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Company financial except revenues, which are rounded to the nearest whole million.
They are statements present information about the Company as a separate entity prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and and not about the Group.
The consolidated financial statements have been liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments: availableprepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as for-sale financial assets: financial assets and liabilities identified as hedged adopted by the EU and applicable law IFRSs.
The Company has elected to items: and assets and liabilities acquired through business combinations.
prepare its Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with UK GAAP Non-current assets and liabilities held for sale are stated at the lower of their and these are presented on pages 148 to 152.
The financial statements were carrying amounts and their fair values less costs to sell.
approved by the Board of Directors on 5 March 2014.
The policies described in this section and in the accompanying notes have In our financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012, we referred been applied consistently throughout the Group for the purposes of these to enquiries made by the conduct division of the Financial Reporting Council consolidated financial statements except as discussed below.
into the accounting treatment of the IMI Pension Funds investment in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership.
These enquiries were closed in early 2014, i New or amended EU Endorsed Accounting Standards adopted with no prior year adjustments made to reported amounts.
by the Group during 2013 The following standards were adopted in these financial statements during 1.2 2013 with impacts as analysed below: Restatements and changes in Presentational and accounting impact: accounting estimates IAS19 Employee Benefits Revised 2011 see above Restatement in respect of the treatment of the Retail Dispense Presentational impact only: businesses as discontinued operations IFRS13 Fair Value Measurement see section 4.4.
6 Because the sale of the Retail Dispense businesses, which completed on IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements see consolidated statement 1 January 2014, represents the disposal of a major class of business for the of other comprehensive income Group and because this disposal was considered to be highly probable from a point prior to the end of the accounting period, these businesses have been No impact: classified as discontinued operations in accordance with IFRS5 Non-current IFRS10 Consolidated Financial Statements assets held for sale and discontinued operations.
Accordingly, the results of IFRS11 Joint Arrangements these businesses are now reported in one line, net of tax, below profit after tax and the comparative figures have been restated.
A full analysis of the financial IFRS12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities effect of this restatement is given in section 2.5 on page 104.
IAS28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures IFRS5 also requires that the assets and liabilities associated with these IAS31 Interests in Joint Ventures discontinued operations should be shown in separate lines in current assets and liabilities in the Balance Sheet, but that the prior year information is not ii Issued Accounting Standards which are not effective for the year ended 31 December 2013 restated to be shown on a similar basis.
IFRS9 Financial Instruments 2009, IFRS9 Classification Restatement in respect of IAS19 Employee Benefits Revised 2011 and Measurement The consolidated Financial Statements as at 31 December 2012 have been The standard is being issued in phases as the IASB completes each part of its restated for the adoption of IAS19 Employee Benefits Revised 2011.
IAS19 project to replace IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
as revised includes a number of amendments to the accounting for defined The first elements of IFRS9 were issued in November 2009 and October 2010 benefit plans, but the principal impact on the Group is that the return on plan to replace the parts of IAS39 that relate to the classification and measurement assets recognised in the income statement is now based on the discount rate of financial instruments.
In November 2013 an amendment was issued to applied to the liabilities.
Prior to the revision, the expected return on assets was address hedge accounting and to remove the previously determined effective recognised through the income statement.
Instead, the IASB proposes to set the effective date The retrospective impact on the Group for the 2012 full year comparatives was of IFRS9 when it completes the impairment phase of the project.
a decrease in the net financing credit of 19.2m and an associated reduction The European Union has already indicated that it will not begin the process in the tax charge of 4.5m.
The equivalent credits and associated taxation of considering the adoption of IFRS9 until the standard has been published impacts to these income statement charges have been recognised in other in its final form.
The Group is yet to assess IFRS9s full impact and will comprehensive income, consequently there was no overall net balance sheet determine the date to adopt IFRS9 once it is endorsed for use in the EU.
The principal impact of the other amendments to IAS19 for the Group relate to the new disclosure requirements, which have been included in section 4.5 on pages 124 to 131.
