93 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 SECTION 2 RESULTS FOR THE YEAR What you will find in this section This section focuses on the results and performance of the Group.
On the following pages you will find disclosures explaining the Groups results for the year, including segmental information, exceptional items, taxation and earnings per share.
1 Segmental operating profit Segmental information Segmental information is presented in the consolidated financial statements Operating margin and organic revenue growth are the two short-term key for each of the Groups operating segments.
The operating segment reporting performance indicators or measures that reflect the way the performance format reflects the Groups management and internal reporting structures and of the Group is managed and monitored by the Executive Committee.
represents the information that is presented to the chief operating decisionIn this section the key constituents of these two KPIs, being the Groups maker, being the Executive Committee.
revenues and segmental operating profits, are analysed by reference The Group comprises the following five operating segments and activities, to the performance and activities of the Groups segments and their but as discussed earlier in these financial statements, the Retail Dispense operating costs.
businesses were disposed of on 1 January 2014, subsequent to the year-end, and consequently their results are shown as discontinued operations in the Operating margin is derived by dividing segmental operating profits by Income Statement, while their assets and liabilities are presented as held segmental revenues.
Organic revenue growth is the growth in segmental for sale in the Balance Sheet.
revenues on a like-for-like basis excluding the effects of acquisitions, disposals and exchange rate movements.
Fluid Controls continuing operations Severe Service The Severe Service division is a world leading provider of highly-engineered flow control solutions for critical applications that are able to withstand temperature and pressure extremes and intensely abrasive and corrosive cyclical operations.
Fluid Power The Fluid Power division specialises in developing motion and fluid control technologies for applications where precision, speed and reliability are essential.
Indoor Climate The Indoor Climate division designs and manufactures technologies which deliver optimal and energy efficient heating and cooling systems inside buildings.
Retail Dispense discontinued operations Beverage Dispense Design, manufacture and supply of still and carbonated beverage dispense systems and associated merchandising equipment for brand owners and retailers.
Merchandising Design, manufacture and supply of permanent point of purchase display systems for brand owners and retailers.
Performance is measured based on segmental operating profit which is the profit reported by the business, stated before exceptional items including the reversal of economic hedge contract gains and losses, the net credit on special pension events, restructuring costs, preparatory costs associated with the disposal of the Retail Dispense business, acquired intangible amortisation and other acquisition-related costs.
Businesses enter into forward currency and metal contracts to provide economic hedges against the impact on profitability of swings in rates and values in accordance with the Groups policy to minimise the risk of volatility in revenues, costs and margins.
Segmental operating profits are therefore charged credited with the impact of these contracts.
In accordance with IAS39, these contracts do not meet the technical provisions required for hedge accounting and gains and losses are reversed out of segmental profit and are recorded in net financial income and expense for the purposes of the consolidated income statement.
