82 IMI plc Financial statements FINANCE DIRECTORS INTRODUCTION Dear Shareholder Welcome to the Financial Statements section of our Effect of the disposal of our retail dispense businesses Annual Report.
on the Annual Report Structural changes to this years Group Financial The disposal on 1 January 2014 of the Beverage Dispense Statements and Merchandising businesses together, the Retail Dispense businesses was a major event for the Group and whilst it To help with the Corporate Governance requirement to make our completed shortly after the year of this report, the consequence Annual Report fair, balanced and understandable, we have taken of the Boards decision during 2013 to sell these operations has the opportunity to restructure this section of the Annual Report.
a major impact on our Income Statement and Balance Sheet.
Rather than including my Financial Review in a separate section, The Income Statement for 2013 and 2012 now includes the you will now find this commentary set out alongside the primary results of the Retail Dispense businesses outside of the normal statements.
This should allow easier cross referencing between revenue, segmental profit, profit before tax and taxation lines the primary statements and the commentary.
and instead includes the whole of its income and expenses, Whilst the accounting policies adopted by the Company are an including taxation, in one line net of tax at the foot of the Income important part of our Annual Report, we recognise that many Statement, under the caption Discontinued Operations.
This readers of the Financial Statements prefer to use these as a presentation serves to present a picture of what the Groups reference tool.
These policies are now included towards the Income Statement for 2013 would have looked like without end of the Financial Statements rather than at the beginning.
these businesses and presents 2012 on the same basis.
We included 28 notes to the Group Financial Statements in Similarly, the Balance Sheet includes the assets and liabilities to the previous year and while all of this information is necessary be sold in this transaction in separate held for sale categories to ensure we comply with International Financial Reporting on the face of the Balance Sheet, although, as required by Standards, it does not always make it easy to find what you are International Financial Reporting Standards, the comparative looking for.
We have therefore restructured the notes into five figures in the Balance Sheet for 2012 are not restated on a new categories as outlined in the table of contents on the comparable basis.
following page for easier navigation.
I trust that you find these changes helpful and would be pleased to receive any feedback on how we might further At the beginning of each section you will find a short note improve the communication of our financial results and explaining the contents of the section and throughout the statements in the future.
sections you will find a text box which attempts to explain some of the more complicated items in more user-friendly language.
Douglas Hurt Finance Director 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements INTRODUCTION AND TABLE OF CONTENTS What you will find in this section Primary Statements Consolidated Income Statement and commentary thereon........... 84 These financial statements have been presented in a Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, manner which attempts to make them less complex Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and and more relevant to shareholders, and in particular, commentary thereon................................................................. 86 to give consideration to the Financial Reporting Councils Consolidated Balance Sheet and requirement for the financial statements to be fair, balanced commentary thereon................................................................. 88 and understandable.
We have grouped notes in sections under five headings: Basis of Preparation, Results for the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and Year, Operating Assets and Liabilities, Capital Structure commentary thereon................................................................. 90 and Financing Costs and Other Notes.
The purpose of this Section 1 Basis of Preparation........................................... 92 format is to provide readers with a clearer understanding of what drives the financial performance of the Group.
Section 2 Results for the Year Text in boxes provides commentary on each section in 2.1 Segmental operating profit................................................... 93 plain English.
The notes that follow will also provide explanations and additional Section 3 Operating Assets and Liabilities disclosure to assist readers understanding and interpretation 3.1 Working capital.................................................................. 106 of the Annual Report and the financial statements.
