107 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 3.2 Intangible assets The following section shows the non-physical assets used by the Group to generate revenues and profits.
These assets include goodwill, customer relationships, order books, patents, development costs and software development costs.
The cost of these assets is the amount that the Group has paid for them or, when they have arisen due to a business combination, the fair value of the specific intangible assets that could be sold separately or which arise from legal rights.
In the case of goodwill, its cost is the amount the Group has paid in acquiring a business over and above the fair value of the individual assets net of the liabilities acquired.
The value of the goodwill can arise from a number of sources but in relation to our more recent acquisitions, it has been represented by post-acquisition synergies and the skills and knowledge of the workforce.
The value of the Groups intangible assets, with the exception of goodwill, reduces over the number of years over which the Group expects to use the asset, the useful life, via an annual amortisation charge to the income statement.
The Group splits its intangible assets between those arising on acquisitions and those which do not arise on acquisitions, because the amortisation of acquired intangibles meets the definition of an exceptional item as described in section 2.2.
Where there are indications that the value of intangible assets is no longer representative of their value to the Group, for example where there is a customer relationship recognised but revenues from that customer are reducing, or where goodwill was recognised on an acquisition but the performance of the business acquired is below expectations, the Directors review the value of the assets to ensure they have not fallen below their amortised values.
If this has happened, a one-off impairment charge is made against profit.
This section explains the overall carrying values of the intangible assets within the Group and the specific judgements and estimates made by the Directors in arriving at these values.
108 IMI plc SECTION 3 OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Continued 3.2.
2 Goodwill impairment testing Goodwill is not subject to an annual amortisation charge, instead, its carrying value is assessed annually by comparison to the future cash flows of the business to which it relates the cash generating unit, or CGU.
These cash flows are discounted to reflect the time value of money and this discount rate, together with the growth rates assumed in the cash flow forecasts, are the key assumptions in this impairment testing process.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units CGUs based on the synergies This exercise resulted in the use of the following ranges of values for the expected to be derived from the acquisition upon which the goodwill arose.
key assumptions: The Group has 36 cash generating units to which goodwill is allocated.
Zimmermann & Jansen, TH Jansen, and Remosa were all acquired between 2013 2012 2010 and 2012 and have created for IMI a leadership position with their % % products in the Petrochemical and Iron and Steel markets.
These businesses operate closely with each other however impairment reviews have been Pre-tax discount rate 10.6 - 14.6 10.6 - 14.5 undertaken for these CGUs separately.
We will continue to review whether Long-term growth rate 1.6 - 3.6 2.0 - 4.2 they should be treated as a single or combined CGU.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment as part of the overall assessment No amounts of goodwill that are significant in the context of the Groups of assets against their recoverable amounts.
The recoverable amount of a total goodwill balance used the same key assumptions for the purposes of CGU is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
impairment testing in either this year or the last.
For the purpose of assessing Value in use is determined using cash flow projections from financial budgets the significance in this context, the Group uses a threshold of 20% of the total approved by the Board covering a three-year period.
The projected cash flows goodwill balance.
reflect the latest expectation of demand for products and services.
The aggregate amount of goodwill arising from acquisitions prior to 1 January The key assumptions in these calculations are the long-term growth rates and 2004 which had been deducted from the profit and loss reserves and the discount rates applied to forecast cash flows in addition to the achievement incorporated into the IFRS transitional balance sheet as at 1 January 2004, of the forecasts themselves.
Long-term growth rates are based on long-term amounted to 364m.
The cumulative impairment recognised in relation to economic forecasts for growth in the manufacturing sector in the geographical goodwill is 6m 2012: 6m.
regions in which the cash generating unit operates.
Pre-tax discount rates The cumulative acquired intangible amortisation is 142.0m 2012: 120.6m.
specific to each cash generating unit are calculated by adjusting the Group post-tax weighted average cost of capital WACC of 8% for the tax rate relevant to the jurisdiction before adding risk premia for the size of the unit, the characteristics of the segment in which it resides, and the geographical regions from which the cash flows are derived.
