149 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 COMPANY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C1.
Significant accounting policies When a parent grants share-based payments to employees of a subsidiary, UITF41 Scope of FRS20 and UITF44 Group and Treasury Share Transactions The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with states that the parent receives services from the employees indirectly through items considered material in relation to the financial statements, except where its subsidiary which should be accounted for as an increase in the investment otherwise noted below: in the subsidiary by the parent.
Basis of accounting Amounts recharged to subsidiaries are recognised as a reduction in the cost The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost of investment in the subsidiary as this recharge is considered to form part of the convention and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards except determination of the net capital contribution from the parent in respect of the for certain financial instruments as defined by FRS26 Financial Instruments: share-based payment arrangement.
Accordingly, there is no overall increase in Measurement which are stated at fair value.
the investment in subsidiaries recorded in the Companys financial statements.
The recharged amount is recognised as a debtor falling due for payment within The Company has not presented a separate profit and loss account as one year.
permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The total amount recharged over the vesting period is determined by reference Under FRS1 Cash Flow Statements, the Company is exempt from the to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that the vesting conditions for example, profitability and sales growth targets.
NonCompany is included in its own published consolidated financial statements.
market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
The fair value of the The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions contained in FRS8 options at the date of grant is determined based on the Black-Scholes Related party disclosures and has not disclosed transactions or balances option-pricing model.
with wholly owned entities which form part of the Group.
Related party transactions with the Companys key management personnel are disclosed in At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimate of the number the Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 79 and in section 5.2 on page 137 of of options that are expected to vest.
The Company has adopted the requirements of FRS29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and has taken the exemption It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the under that standard from disclosure on the grounds that the Group Financial amount recharged to subsidiary undertakings.
Statements contain disclosures in compliance with IFRS7.
The proceeds received, net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options Foreign currencies are exercised.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of transaction.
Treasury shares Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been The consideration paid by the Company on the acquisition of treasury shares translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet is charged directly to retained earnings in the year of purchase.
If treasury date and the gains or losses on translation are included in the profit and shares are subsequently cancelled the nominal value of the cancelled shares loss account.
is transferred from share capital to the capital redemption reserve.
Investments Dividends or shares presented within shareholders funds The Companys cost of investments in subsidiary undertakings is stated at the Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability aggregate of a the cash consideration and either b the nominal value of the at that date to the extent that they are authorised and are no longer at the shares issued as consideration when section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 discretion of the Company.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria applies or c in all other cases the market value of the Companys shares on the are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
date they were issued as consideration.
Remuneration of directors Taxation The detailed information concerning directors emoluments, shareholdings The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into and options are shown in the audited section of the Remuneration Report account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the on pages 55 to 79. treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Remuneration of auditors Deferred tax is recognised without discounting, in respect of all timing The detailed information concerning the auditors remuneration is shown differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting in section 2.1.
3.3 of the Group Financial Statements.
purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS19.
Staff numbers and costs Financial instruments The number of people employed by the Company, including Directors, during the year was 25 2012: 27 all of whom were employed in administrative roles.
The principal financial instruments utilised by the Company are interest rate The costs associated with them were borne by a subsidiary undertaking.
These instruments are used for hedging purposes in line with the Groups risk management policy.
Interest differentials are taken to net interest The Company participates in the IMI Pension Fund, which is a defined benefit in the profit and loss account.
scheme in which the assets are held independently.
The Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the schemes If an instrument ceases to be accounted for as a hedge, for example because and consequently in accordance with FRS17 paragraph 9 b the Company the underlying hedged position is eliminated, the instrument is marked to is required to account for pension costs as if the scheme were a defined market and any resulting profit or loss is recognised at that time.
Section 4.5 to the Group financial statements provides further details regarding the defined benefit scheme.
Equity and equity-related compensation benefits The Company operates a number of equity and equity-related compensation benefits as set out in section 4.7 to the Group Financial Statements.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recharged to the principal employing company.
