137 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 SECTION 5 OTHER NOTES 5.1 5.3 Contingent liabilities Subsequent events A contingent liability is a liability that is not sufficiently certain to qualify for Where the Directors receive information in the period between 31 December recognition as a provision because significant subjectivity exists regarding and the date of approval of the Annual Report about conditions relating to its outcome.
events that existed at the year end, they update the disclosures relating to those conditions in light of the new information.
Such events can be categorised as adjusting or non-adjusting depending As described in last years accounts, in May 2012 companies belonging on whether the condition existed at 31 December.
If the event is an adjusting to a British builders merchant served damages claims against IMI plc and event, then an adjustment to the results is made.
If a non-adjusting event others relating to alleged financial losses incurred in the UK as a result of after the year end is material, non-disclosure could influence decisions that anti-competitive behaviour undertaken by a number of manufacturers of copper readers of the financial statements make.
Accordingly, for each material plumbing tubes and copper plumbing fittings.
An investigation by the European non-adjusting event after the reporting period we disclose the nature of the Commission was commenced in 2001 and found cartel activity for which it event and an estimate of its financial effect, or a statement that such an imposed fines in 2004 tubes and 2006 fittings.
IMI plc disposed of its former estimate cannot be made.
copper plumbing tubes and fittings businesses in 2002.
There are separate tubes and fittings cases in the English High Court.
IMI is defending both claims robustly and has brought in all other appropriate parties as contributors.
The Group disposed of its Retail Dispense Operations on 1 January 2014, At the year-end, the Directors recorded their best estimate of any settlement subsequent to the year-end.
However, due to the stage of the ongoing negotiation and the potential impact on the outcome of the claim, the amount provided The proceeds of the disposal were $1,100m, adjusted for net debt in the is not disclosed.
business at the date of disposal and a customary completion accounts mechanism.
These proceeds were hedged using a deal contingent forward Group contingent liabilities relating to guarantees in the normal course of exchange contract to protect the Group from adverse movements in the business and other items amounted to 114m 2012: 102m.
sterling dollar exchange rate between exchange of contract on 15 October 2013 and completion on 1 January 2014.
After deducting transaction costs, the Retail Dispense net assets, taxation and after recycling the cumulative 5.2 historical exchange gain on the assets disposed, we estimate that the profit on disposal of this business to be recorded in 2014 will be in the region of 475m.
Related party transactions Return of cash and share consolidation Related parties are solely the key management personnel.
The Board is As envisaged in the announcement of the disposal of the Retail Dispense considered to be the key management personnel of the Group.
businesses, we are returning cash of about 620m to shareholders via a B and C share scheme, which was approved in the general meeting in February 2014.
2013 2012 The B and C Share Scheme was accompanied by a seven for eight share m m consolidation, which is a commonly used arrangement to ensure that the Groups share price after the return of cash is broadly equivalent to the share Short term employee benefits 6.5 5.6 price prior to the return of cash, which ensures that targets and prices in the Termination Benefits 0.5 0.7 Groups various share-based remuneration schemes remain appropriate.
Share-based payments 5.7 5.3 The return of cash will reduce retained earnings in the 2014 Balance Sheet Total 12.7 11.6 by about 620m.
Short-term employee benefits comprise salary, including employers social contributions, benefits earned during the year and bonuses awarded for the year.
5.4 There are no other related party transactions.
Subsidiaries and Non-controlling interests The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of IMI plc and the entities it controls its subsidiaries for the year to 31 December.
The Group has no significant interests which are accounted for as Associates or Joint Ventures as at 31 December 2013.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
The financial statements of subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting year as the Parent Company and are based on consistent accounting policies.
All intragroup balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from them, are eliminated in full.
138 IMI plc SECTION 5 OTHER NOTES Continued A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, ii.
Estimates and assumptions is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation subsidiary, it: uncertainty at the reporting date that have a significant risk of causing a material derecognises the assets including any goodwill relating to the subsidiary adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next and liabilities of the subsidiary: financial year are described below.
The Group bases its assumptions and estimates on information available when the consolidated financial statements derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest: are prepared.
Market changes or circumstances arising beyond the control derecognises the cumulative translation differences recorded in equity: of the Group are reflected in the assumptions when they occur.
Revisions to recognises the fair value of the consideration received: accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
recognises the fair value of any investment retained: recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss: and Impairment of non-financial assets reclassifies the Parents share of components previously recognised in other Impairment exists when the carrying value of an asset or cash generating unit comprehensive income to profit or loss or retained earnings, as appropriate.
exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
The value in use is based on a discounted cash flow Taxation on the above accounting entries would also be recognised model.
Cash flows are derived from the Groups long-term forecasts for the where applicable.
The principal sensitivities in this calculation are the discount Non-controlling interests include the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, rate, the expected future cash inflows and the growth rate used to calculate the directly or indirectly, to the Parent Company and the IMI Pension Funds interest terminal value.
Further information on this process and the assets affected is in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership the Partnership.
Non-controlling included in section 3.2. interests are presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from equity attributable to owners of the parent.
Losses within Valuation of intangibles a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interest even if that results Accounting standards require separately identifiable intangible assets to be in a deficit balance.
This process involves a number of different valuation techniques for the classes of intangible asset recognised, which, for the Groups B.
Use of judgements and estimates recent acquisitions, have principally related to customer and technology related The preparation of financial statements requires management to make assets.
The principal estimates required in valuing these intangible assets judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of generally relate to predicting the future cash flows to be generated by the accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, assets as well as the rates used to discount them.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Disposed businesses i. Judgement The Company has disposed of a number of its previous businesses.
The sale Consolidation of the Scottish Limited Partnership and inclusion of agreements contained various warranties and indemnities.
In some cases, the IMI Pension Funds interest in this special purpose entity as a the agreements also include the potential for adjustment to the purchase price, non-controlling interest.
sometimes contingent on future events.
At the time of disposal, the accounts reflect the best estimate of the likely future impact of these agreements.
In June 2010, the Group made a special contribution to the IMI Pension Fund These estimates are then regularly reviewed and provisions are recognised of 48.6m which the Trustee agreed to invest in the IMI Scottish Limited where necessary.
Partnership, an entity controlled by the Group, which confers upon the Fund conditional rights to receive income of 4.4m a year for twenty years, or until the Fund becomes fully funded.
One of the judgements involved in this issue was whether this entity qualified as a Special Purpose Entity as defined by SIC 12: Consolidation Special Purpose Entities, and whether, in applying this interpretation, the entity should be consolidated.
It was determined that the entity meets the definition of a Special Purpose Entity under IFRS10 and furthermore, upon consideration of the criteria in this interpretation, it was determined that consolidation was appropriate.
There are certain conditions under which the Group can defer the amounts payable to the Pension Fund, in particular, the Partnership Agreement includes a clause under which the payments in the year are deferred in the event that the Group has not paid a dividend in the preceding year.
Because the Group has the ability to defer such payments indefinitely and is in control of the circumstances under which the arrangement can be terminated, the payments envisaged by the agreement are discretionary and therefore do not constitute a liability under IAS32.
As such the Pension Funds interest in this IMI Scottish Limited Partnership has been recorded as a non-controlling interest, as a component of equity.
139 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Share-based payments Fair value measurement of contingent consideration The Group measures the cost of equity-settled transactions with employees Because they are forfeitable in some of the instances in which the by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at the date at which they vendors might leave the business, certain amounts payable under contingent are granted.
Estimating fair value for share-based payment transactions requires consideration arrangements resulting from business combinations in these determination of the most appropriate valuation model, which is dependent on consolidated financial statements have been treated as remuneration in the terms and conditions of the grant.
This estimate also requires determination accordance with IFRS3 revised.
These are assessed at fair value and charged of the most appropriate inputs to the valuation model including the expected to the Income Statement in the period over which the Group receives the life of the share option, volatility and dividend yield and related assumptions.
benefit of the vendors employment services.
The determination of this fair These assumptions and the models used for estimating fair value for value is based on an estimate of the future performance of the business which share-based payment transactions are disclosed in section 4.7. is dependent on the acquired businesss performance over a specific future timeframe and is therefore subject to estimation uncertainty.
These amounts are Taxes treated as exceptional items in accordance with section D to these accounting policies and further details are disclosed in section 3.4.
Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax regulations, changes in tax laws, and the amount and timing of future taxable income.
Development costs Given the wide range of international business relationships and the long-term nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences arising Development costs are capitalised in accordance with the criteria set out in between the actual results and the assumptions made, or future changes to IAS38: Intangible Assets.
Initial capitalisation of costs is based on managements such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to the tax income judgement regarding the technological and commercial feasibility of the asset, and expense already recorded.
The Group establishes provisions, based and only when a product development project has reached a point where on reasonable estimates, for possible consequences of audits by the tax such determinations can be made.
In testing these assets for impairment, authorities of the respective countries in which it operates.
The amount of management makes assumptions regarding the expected future cash such provisions is based on various factors, such as experience of previous generation of the project, discount rates to be applied and the expected tax audits and differing interpretations of tax regulations by the taxable entity period of benefits.
Further details are disclosed in section 3.2. and the responsible tax authority.
Such differences of interpretation may arise C. Revenue recognition on a wide variety of issues depending on the conditions prevailing in the respective domicile of the Group companies.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and that the revenue can be reliably measured.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses to the extent that it The nature of the equipment, valve and other contracts into which the Group is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the losses can be enters means that: utilised.
Significant management judgement is required to determine the amount the contracts usually contain discrete elements, each of which transfers risks of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and and rewards to the customer.
Where such discrete elements are present, the level of future taxable profits.
revenue is recognised on each element in accordance with the policy on the Trading provisions sale of goods.
The Group sells a wide range of highly technical products and whilst its the service element of the contract is usually insignificant in relation to the products are designed and engineered to a high degree of precision and total contract value and is often provided on a short-term or one-off basis.
to customer specifications, there will always be a risk of products requiring Where this is the case, revenue is recognised when the service is complete.
modification, which can lead to warranty claims as well as excess or obsolete As a result of the above, the significant majority of the Groups revenue is inventory, collection risk regarding receivables and other trading provisions.
recognised on a sale of goods basis.
Provisions are held against these risks, which are estimated based on past experience of claims and by measuring the likely use of inventory in the future The specific methods used to recognise the different forms of revenue earned against past usage.
The degree of dependence on future events makes by the Group are set out below: these estimates inherently subjective.
Sale of goods Employee benefits Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement net The present value of the Groups defined benefit pension plans and other postof returns, trade discounts and volume rebates when the significant risks employment benefits are determined using actuarial valuations.
An actuarial and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer and reliable valuation involves making various assumptions that may differ from actual measurement is possible.
No revenue is recognised where recovery of the developments in the future.
These include the determination of the discount consideration is not probable or there are significant uncertainties regarding rate, inflation, future salary increases, mortality rates and future pension associated costs, or the possible return of goods.
Due to the complexity of the valuation and its long-term nature, Transfers of risks and rewards vary depending on the nature of the products a defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions.
sold and the individual terms of the contract of sale.
Sales made under In particular, although only constituting a minor portion of the assets, the internationally accepted trade terms, Incoterms 2010, are recognised as valuation of the IMI Pension Funds interest in the Scottish Limited Partnership revenue when the Group has completed the primary duties required to transfer is a highly subjective area because its valuation depends on an actuarial risks as defined by the International Chamber of Commerce Official Rules for assessment of the amount a third party might be willing to pay for the asset, the Interpretation of Trade Terms.
Sales made outside Incoterms 2010 are taking into account the risk that the associated income stream could either generally recognised on delivery to the customer.
cease in the event that the IMI Pension Fund became fully funded or become deferred in any year in which no dividend was paid to the shareholders.
These assumptions, accompanied by sensitivity analysis thereon, are included in section 4.5.
140 IMI plc SECTION 5 OTHER NOTES Continued ii.
Rendering of Services Acquisition-related costs, which comprise: As noted above, because revenue from the rendering of services is usually - Contingent consideration payments which because they might be insignificant in relation to the total contract value and is generally provided on forfeited in some of the instances in which the vendors post-acquisition a short-term or one-off basis, revenue is usually recognised when the service employment contracts may be terminated are required by IFRS3 revised is complete.
to be treated as remuneration: - Transaction costs on successful acquisitions.
Where this is not the case, revenue from services rendered is recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the service at the balance sheet date.
The tax impact of the above items is also shown within Exceptional Items.
The stage of completion is assessed by reference to the contractual agreement with each separate customer and the costs incurred on the contract to date E. Financial income and expense in comparison to the total forecast costs of the contract.
Revenue recognition Financial income comprises interest receivable on funds invested, income commences only when the outcome of the contract can be reliably measured.
from investments and gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in the Installation fees are similarly recognised by reference to the stage of completion income statement.
Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it on the installation unless they are incidental to the sale of the goods, in which accrues, taking into account the effective yield on the asset.
Dividend income is case they are recognised when the goods are sold.
recognised in the income statement on the date that the dividend is declared.
When a transaction combines a supply of goods with the provision of a Financial expense comprises interest payable on borrowings calculated using significant service, revenue from the provision of the service is recognised the effective interest rate method, the interest related element of derivatives and separately from the revenue from the sale of goods by reference to the stage losses on financial instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
of completion of the service unless the service is essential to the functionality The interest expense component of finance lease payments is recognised in of the goods supplied, in which case the whole transaction is treated as a the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
Revenue from a service that is incidental to the supply of goods is recognised at the same time as the revenue from the supply of goods.
Net finance expense relating to defined benefit pension schemes represents the assumed interest on the difference between employee benefit plan liabilities iii.
Construction contracts and the employee benefit plan assets.
As noted above, customer contracts usually contain discrete elements Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or separately transferring risks and rewards to the customer.
However, where production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to such discrete elements are not in place, revenue from significant contracts is get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the contract by reference respective assets.
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they to the specific contract terms and the costs incurred on the contract to date in occur.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs comparison to the total forecast costs of the contract.
in connection with the borrowing of funds.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included in F. Income tax revenue from construction contracts when certain criteria are met.
Variations are included when the customer has agreed to the variation or acknowledged Current tax payable receivable represents the expected tax payable receivable liability for the variation in principle.
Claims are included when negotiations on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively with the customer have reached an advanced stage such that the customer is enacted at the balance sheet date and taking into account any adjustments certain to accept the claim.
Incentive payments are included when a contract in respect of prior years.
is sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the performance standards Deferred tax is provided, using the balance sheet method, on temporary triggering the incentive will be achieved.
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial Profit attributable to contract activity is recognised if the final outcome of such reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is contracts can be reliably assessed.
On all contracts, full provision is made for not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of any losses in the year in which they are first foreseen.
goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit, D. Exceptional items and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that the timing of the reversal of the differences can be controlled and it is probable Exceptional items are disclosed separately where the quantum, the one-off that the differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is nature or volatility of these items would otherwise distort the underlying measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the temporary trading performance.
differences reverse, based on the tax laws that have been enacted or The following items of income and expense are considered to be exceptional substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
in these financial statements: A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that Gains and losses including fair value adjustments on derivative future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference financial instruments: can be utilised.
Special pension events, which comprise the past service credits relating to the UK Scheme arising from the pension increase exchange exercise and G. Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations two Swiss Schemes and the curtailment of a defined benefit scheme in Japan: Where applicable, on initial classification as held for sale, non-current disposal Restructuring costs, which comprise significant costs associated with the groups are recognised at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs closure of activities or factories and the cost of significant reductions in to sell.
Impairment losses on the initial classification of assets as held for sale workforce due to excess capacity or the reorganisation of facilities: are included in profit or loss, even for assets measured at fair value, as are impairment losses on subsequent remeasurement and any reversal thereof.
Costs associated with the disposal of our Retail Dispense businesses, Once classified as held for sale, assets are no longer depreciated or amortised.
which principally represented costs payable to the legal and financial advisors assisting with the origination and completion of the transaction, in addition A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that to the advisory costs borne in 2013 relating to the return of cash: represents a separate major line of business that has been disposed of, The amortisation of acquired intangible fixed assets: is held for sale or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to re-sale.
141 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 H. Foreign currencies the criteria to qualify for hedge accounting under IAS39 no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss resulting from changes in fair value of the hedging i.
Foreign currency transactions instrument is recognised in net financial income or expense.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet Where such a derivative is a formally designated hedge of a forecast transaction date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translating transactions at for accounting purposes, such as the forward component of the dealthe exchange rate ruling on the transaction date are reflected in the income contingent forward contract entered into to hedge foreign exchange movements statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at historical relating to the US dollar proceeds of the sale of the Retail Dispense businesses, cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date movements in the value of the derivative are recognised directly in equity to the of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign extent the hedge is effective.
The Company assesses the effectiveness of the currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into Sterling at foreign hedge based on the expected fair value of the amount to be received and the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
movement in the fair value of the derivative designated as the hedge.
For segmental reporting purposes, changes in the fair value of economic ii.
Foreign operations hedges that are not designated hedges, which relate to current year trading, The income statements of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated at together with the gains and losses on their settlement, are allocated to the the appropriate average rate of exchange for the year and the adjustment to segmental revenues and operating profit of the relevant business segment.
year end rates is taken directly to reserves.
Hedge of net investment in foreign operation The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated at foreign exchange rates Where a foreign currency liability or derivative financial instrument is a formally ruling at the balance sheet date.
designated hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, foreign exchange differences arising on translation of the foreign currency liability or changes in Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly the fair value of the financial instrument are recognised directly in equity to the as a separate component of equity.
Since 1 January 2004, the Groups date extent the hedge is effective.
The Company assesses the effectiveness of its of transition to IFRSs, such differences have been recognised in the translation net investment hedges based on fair value changes of its net assets, including reserve.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant relevant goodwill designated as foreign currency assets, and the fair value amount in the translation reserve is transferred to profit or loss.
changes of both the debt designated as a hedge and the relevant financial instrument.
Financial instruments and fair value hedging Financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value plus directly attributable K. Business combinations and goodwill transaction costs unless the instrument is a derivative not designated as a Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
Subsequent measurement depends on the designation The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration of the instrument, which follows the categories in IAS39: transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any Fixed deposits, comprising principally funds held with banks and other non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
The choice of measurement of nonfinancial institutions are classified as available for sale assets under controlling interest, either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the IAS39, and held at fair value.
Short term borrowings and overdrafts are acquirees identifiable net assets is determined on a transaction by transaction classified as financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Acquisition-related costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses unless their quantum, nature or volatility meets the Derivatives, comprising interest rate swaps, foreign exchange contracts definition of an Exceptional item as set out in accounting policy D. and options, metals futures contracts and any embedded derivatives, are classified as fair value through profit or loss under IAS39, unless designated When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and as hedges.
Derivatives not designated as hedges are initially recognised at liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance fair value: attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss when with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, changes in fair value of such as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded derivatives derivatives and gains or losses on their settlement are recognised in net in contracts held by the acquiree.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be Long term loans and other interest-bearing borrowings are generally held at recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Where the long-term fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be a liability loan is hedged, generally by an interest rate swap, and the hedge is regarded will be recognised in accordance with IAS39 either in profit or loss or in other as effective, the carrying value of the long-term loan is adjusted for changes in comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, fair value of the hedge.
it is not remeasured until it is finally settled within equity.
Trade receivables are stated at cost as reduced by appropriate impairment allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount Trade payables are stated at cost.
recognised for the non-controlling interest and where the business combination Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet only when is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirers previously the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
held equity interest in the acquiree over the net identifiable amounts of the Available for sale financial assets are carried at fair value with gains and losses assets acquired and the liabilities assumed for the business combination.
being recognised in equity, except for impairment losses which are recognised Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to the in the income statement.
business combinations, such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition remuneration arrangements are accounted for separately J.
Other hedging from the business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable i.
Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities, financial commitments or IFRSs.
Identifiable intangible assets are recognised separately from goodwill.
Contingent liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised if the forecast transactions acquisition-date fair value can be reliably measured.
Where a derivative financial instrument is used as an economic hedge of the foreign exchange or metals commodity price exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, financial commitment or forecast transaction, but does not meet 142 IMI plc SECTION 5 OTHER NOTES Continued If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred iv.
Amortisation of intangible assets other than goodwill and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest and where the Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis other business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of than for customer relationships and order book, which are charged on a sum of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is lower than the digits basis over the estimated useful lives of the intangible assets.
Amortisation fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value commences from the date the intangible asset becomes available for use.
of any pre-existing interest held in the business acquired, the difference is The estimated maximum useful lives for: recognised in profit and loss.
Capitalised development costs are the life of the intangible asset usually a After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated maximum of 10 years impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired Software development costs are the life of the intangible asset up to 10 years in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of Customer relationships are the life of the intangible asset up to 10 years the Groups cash generating units or groups of cash generating units that are Other intangible assets are the life of the intangible asset up to 10 years expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Each unit or group of M. Property, plant and equipment units to which goodwill is allocated shall represent the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes Freehold land and assets in the course of construction are not depreciated.
and not be larger than an operating segment before aggregation.
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated Where goodwill forms part of a cash generating unit and part of the operation depreciation see below and impairment losses see accounting policy within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation Impairment.
disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed having different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the property, plant and equipment.
Costs in respect of tooling owned by the Group operation disposed of and the portion of the cash generating unit retained.
for clearly identifiable new products are capitalised net of any contribution received from customers and are included in plant and equipment.
L. Intangible assets Intangible assets are further sub-divided in the notes to these accounts Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis between acquired intangible assets and non-acquired intangible assets.
unless such a basis is not aligned with the anticipated benefit so as to Amortisation of acquired intangible assets is treated as an exceptional item as write down the cost of assets to residual values over the period of their described in section D of these accounting policies, because of its inherent estimated useful lives within the following ranges: volatility.
The accounting policy for goodwill is described in section K. Freehold buildings - 25 to 50 years Plant and equipment - 3 to 20 years i.
Research and development Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining N. Leased assets new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in Leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of the income statement as an expense as incurred.
ownership are classified as finance leases.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied Plant and equipment acquired by way of finance lease is stated at an amount to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease and processes, is capitalised provided benefits are probable, cost can be payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation see above reliably measured and if, and only if, the product or process is technically and and impairment losses see accounting policy Impairment.
commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources and intention to complete development.
The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement materials, direct labour and directly attributable overheads.
Other development on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement over the Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated period of the lease unless a different systematic method is more appropriate amortisation see below and impairment losses see accounting policy under the terms of the lease.
The majority of leasing transactions entered into Impairment and is included in the other acquired or other non-acquired by the Group are operating leases.
category of intangible assets depending on its origin.
Software development costs Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Because Software applications and systems that are not an integral part of their host of the varying nature of the Groups operations, both first in, first out FIFO computer equipment are capitalised on initial recognition as intangible assets and weighted average methodologies are employed.
In respect of work in at cost.
Cost comprises the purchase price plus external costs incurred on progress and finished goods, cost includes all direct costs of production development of the asset to bring it into use.
Following initial recognition, and the appropriate proportion of production overheads.
software development costs are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation see below and accumulated impairment losses see accounting P. Cash and cash equivalents policy Impairment and are included in the other acquired or other nonacquired category of intangible assets depending on their origin.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part iii.
Customer relationships and other acquired intangible assets of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Customer relationships and other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group as part of a business combination are stated at their fair value calculated by reference to the net present value of future benefits accruing to the Group from utilisation of the asset, discounted at an appropriate discount rate.
Expenditure on other internally generated intangible assets is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
143 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Q. Impairment and the date that the Group recognises  costs.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on high quality The carrying values of the Groups non-financial assets other than inventories corporate bonds of the appropriate currency that have durations approximating see accounting policy Inventories and deferred tax assets see accounting those of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified policy Income tax, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the calculation results in whether there is any indication of impairment.
a net asset to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the net total of any If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset or all unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any future refunds assets within its cash generating unit is estimated.
An impairment loss is from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan and restricted recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating by any relevant asset ceiling.
Any deduction made by the tax authorities in unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the event of a refund of a surplus would be regarded by the Group as an the income statement.
For goodwill and assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable When the benefits of a plan are improved, the expense is recognised amount is evaluated at each balance sheet date.
immediately in the income statement.
Re-measurement gains and losses are recognised immediately in equity and disclosed in the statement of i.
Calculation of recoverable amount comprehensive income.
The recoverable amount of the Groups receivables other than financial assets iii.
Long-term service and other post-employment benefits held at fair value is calculated as the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate inherent in the asset.
The Groups net obligation in respect of long-term service and other postReceivables with a short duration of less than one year are not discounted.
employment benefits, other than pension plans, is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair value periods.
The obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use an individual and is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any related assets assessment is made of the estimated future cash flows generated for each cash is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on high generating unit based upon the latest Group three-year plan and extrapolated quality bonds of the appropriate currency that have durations approximating using an appropriate long-term growth rate for each cash generating unit in those of the Groups obligations.
perpetuity consistent with an estimate of the relevant geographic long-term GDP growth.
These are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax iv.
Equity and equity-related compensation benefits discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of The Group operates a number of equity and equity-related compensation money and the risks specific to the asset.
Management believe that this benefits as set out in section 4.7.
The fair value of the employee services approach, including the use of the indefinite cash flow projection, is appropriate received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense based upon both historical experience and because it is one of the bases each year.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is management utilise to evaluate the fair value of investment opportunities.
determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, profitability and sales the recoverable amount is determined for the smallest cash generating growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions unit to which the asset belongs.
about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
The fair value of the options is determined based on the Black-Scholes ii.
Reversals of impairment option-pricing model.
As required by IAS36: Impairment of Assets, any impairment of goodwill or available for sale financial assets is non-reversible.
In respect of other assets, At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of an impairment loss is reversed if at the balance sheet date there are indications options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision of that the loss has decreased or no longer exists following a change in the original estimates, if any, in the income statement.
estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been are exercised.
determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
T. Provisions Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive R. Dividends obligation as a result of past events: it is probable that an outflow of resources Final dividends payable are recognised as a liability at the date at which they are will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount can be reliably approved by the Companys shareholders or by the subsidiarys shareholders in estimated.
Provisions are valued at managements best estimate of the respect of dividends to non-controlling interests.
Interim dividends payable are amount required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date.
recognised on the date they are declared.
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either S. Employee benefits commenced or has been announced publicly.
Defined contribution pension plans Contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Defined benefit pension plans The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods: that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets are deducted.
Past service costs are recognised in profit or loss on the earlier of the date of the plan amendment or curtailment,
