147 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMI PLC COMPANY We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of IMI plc for the Matters on which we are required to report by exception year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the Company Balance Sheet We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the and the related notes C1 to C12.
The financial reporting framework that has been Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in visited by us: or accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for records and returns: or no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys or members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have not received all the information and explanations we require for we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Other matter As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 144, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of IMI plc company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true for the year ended 31 December 2013. and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require Andrew Walton Senior statutory auditor us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Scope of the audit of the financial statements Birmingham An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the 5 March 2014 financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the IMI plc web site is the responsibility appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material other jurisdictions.
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
