137 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 SECTION 5 OTHER NOTES 5.1 5.3 Contingent liabilities Subsequent events A contingent liability is a liability that is not sufficiently certain to qualify for Where the Directors receive information in the period between 31 December recognition as a provision because significant subjectivity exists regarding and the date of approval of the Annual Report about conditions relating to its outcome.
events that existed at the year end, they update the disclosures relating to those conditions in light of the new information.
Such events can be categorised as adjusting or non-adjusting depending As described in last years accounts, in May 2012 companies belonging on whether the condition existed at 31 December.
If the event is an adjusting to a British builders merchant served damages claims against IMI plc and event, then an adjustment to the results is made.
If a non-adjusting event others relating to alleged financial losses incurred in the UK as a result of after the year end is material, non-disclosure could influence decisions that anti-competitive behaviour undertaken by a number of manufacturers of copper readers of the financial statements make.
Accordingly, for each material plumbing tubes and copper plumbing fittings.
An investigation by the European non-adjusting event after the reporting period we disclose the nature of the Commission was commenced in 2001 and found cartel activity for which it event and an estimate of its financial effect, or a statement that such an imposed fines in 2004 tubes and 2006 fittings.
IMI plc disposed of its former estimate cannot be made.
copper plumbing tubes and fittings businesses in 2002.
There are separate tubes and fittings cases in the English High Court.
IMI is defending both claims robustly and has brought in all other appropriate parties as contributors.
The Group disposed of its Retail Dispense Operations on 1 January 2014, At the year-end, the Directors recorded their best estimate of any settlement subsequent to the year-end.
However, due to the stage of the ongoing negotiation and the potential impact on the outcome of the claim, the amount provided The proceeds of the disposal were $1,100m, adjusted for net debt in the is not disclosed.
business at the date of disposal and a customary completion accounts mechanism.
These proceeds were hedged using a deal contingent forward Group contingent liabilities relating to guarantees in the normal course of exchange contract to protect the Group from adverse movements in the business and other items amounted to 114m 2012: 102m.
sterling dollar exchange rate between exchange of contract on 15 October 2013 and completion on 1 January 2014.
After deducting transaction costs, the Retail Dispense net assets, taxation and after recycling the cumulative 5.2 historical exchange gain on the assets disposed, we estimate that the profit on disposal of this business to be recorded in 2014 will be in the region of 475m.
Related party transactions Return of cash and share consolidation Related parties are solely the key management personnel.
The Board is As envisaged in the announcement of the disposal of the Retail Dispense considered to be the key management personnel of the Group.
businesses, we are returning cash of about 620m to shareholders via a B and C share scheme, which was approved in the general meeting in February 2014.
2013 2012 The B and C Share Scheme was accompanied by a seven for eight share m m consolidation, which is a commonly used arrangement to ensure that the Groups share price after the return of cash is broadly equivalent to the share Short term employee benefits 6.5 5.6 price prior to the return of cash, which ensures that targets and prices in the Termination Benefits 0.5 0.7 Groups various share-based remuneration schemes remain appropriate.
Share-based payments 5.7 5.3 The return of cash will reduce retained earnings in the 2014 Balance Sheet Total 12.7 11.6 by about 620m.
Short-term employee benefits comprise salary, including employers social contributions, benefits earned during the year and bonuses awarded for the year.
5.4 There are no other related party transactions.
Subsidiaries and Non-controlling interests The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of IMI plc and the entities it controls its subsidiaries for the year to 31 December.
The Group has no significant interests which are accounted for as Associates or Joint Ventures as at 31 December 2013.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
The financial statements of subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting year as the Parent Company and are based on consistent accounting policies.
All intragroup balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from them, are eliminated in full.
