STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL  INFORMATION ACCOUNTING POLICIES The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
ACCOUNTING CONVENTION The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for available for sale financial assets, and those financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments held at fair value through profit or loss, which are measured at fair value.
GOING CONCERN After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Directors are satisfied that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICY AND DISCLOSURES The accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the reporting period, other than where new policies have been adopted as presented below.
IAS 19 revised, Employee benefits has become effective and has been retrospectively applied by the Group for accounting periods starting 1 January 2013.
The revised standard impacts the way the Group accounts for pensions and other post-retirement benefits as follows: the interest cost and expected return on plan assets are replaced with a net interest amount, calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit asset or liability.
Under the previous standard, the expected return on plan assets represented the weighted average expected return on the assets held by the pension schemes: and expenses, other than investment management expenses, are recognised as period expenses when incurred.
Under the previous standard, expenses incurred in connection with running the pension schemes formed part of the defined benefit obligation.
Under the previous accounting policy, the Group recognised actuarial gains and losses directly in other comprehensive income which is as required by the new standard.
The principal changes resulting from the adoption of IAS 19 revised, Employee benefits are set out in note 34.
The following new standards are effective for accounting periods beginning 1 January 2013 but have not had a material impact on the results or financial position of the Group: IAS 1, Amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements: Other comprehensive income.
The main change resulting from this amendment is a requirement for the Group to present items on the basis of whether they are potentially reclassifiable to profit or loss in subsequent periods.
IFRS 7, Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities.
The Group has included the new disclosures required by this amendment in note 23.
The change in the accounting policy has been made in accordance with its transitional provisions.
The following standards were in issue but were not effective at the balance sheet date.
These standards have not yet been early adopted by the Group, and will be applied for the Groups financial years commencing on or after 1 January 2014: IAS 27 revised, Separate financial statements IAS 28 revised, Associates and joint ventures IAS 32, Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities IAS 36, Amendment to IAS 36 Impairment of assets IAS 39, Amendment to IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement' IFRS 9, Financial instruments not yet endorsed IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements IFRS 11, Joint arrangements IFRS 12, Disclosure of interests in other entities IFRS 10, 11 and 12, Amendment to IFRS 10, 11 and 12, Transition guidance.
The above standards are not expected to have a material impact on the Group's reported position or performance.
The following changes have been made to the consolidated statement of cash flows and related notes: The effect of foreign exchange rate changes on intra-group funding arrangements has been reclassified from settlement of derivatives to effect on foreign exchange rate changes in 2013, with the prior year comparative restated accordingly: Other non cash items include non cash pension charges credits.
com 83 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the parent Company Inchcape plc and all of its subsidiary undertakings defined as those where the Group has control, together with the Groups share of the results of its joint ventures defined as those where the Group has joint control and associates defined as those where the Group has significant influence but not control.
The results of subsidiaries are consolidated and the Groups share of results of its joint ventures and associates is equity accounted for as of the same reporting date as the parent Company, using consistent accounting policies.
The results of subsidiaries are consolidated using the acquisition method of accounting from the date on which control of the net assets and operations of the acquired company are effectively transferred to the Group.
Similarly, the results of subsidiaries disposed of cease to be consolidated from the date on which control of the net assets and operations are transferred out of the Group.
The Group treats transactions with non controlling interests as transactions with equity owners of the Group.
For purchases from non controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to non controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
Where the Group acquires a controlling interest in a subsidiary with a contractual obligation to purchase the remaining non controlling interest, the acquired company is accounted for as a 100% subsidiary, with the liability for the purchase of the remaining non controlling interest recorded as deferred consideration.
Subsequent changes to estimates of the deferred consideration are recorded as additions to reductions from the amount of goodwill arising on acquisition.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method, whereby the Groups share of post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the consolidated income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in shareholders equity is recognised in shareholders equity.
If the Groups share of losses in a joint venture or associate equals or exceeds its investment in the joint venture or associate, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has contractual obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
Intercompany balances and transactions and any unrealised profits arising from intercompany transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION Transactions included in the results of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the functional currency of the parent Company, Inchcape plc, and the presentation currency of the Group.
In the individual entities, transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the individual transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are subsequently retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the end of the reporting period.
All differences are taken to the consolidated income statement, except those arising on long term foreign currency borrowings used to finance or hedge foreign currency investments which on consolidation are taken directly to other comprehensive income.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the end of the reporting period.
The income statements of foreign operations are translated into Sterling at the average rates of exchange for the period.
Exchange differences arising from 1 January 2004 are recognised as a separate component of shareholders equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation, any cumulative exchange differences held in shareholders equity are transferred to the consolidated income statement.
REVENUE, OTHER INCOME AND COST OF SALES Revenue from the sale of goods and services is measured at the fair value of consideration receivable, net of rebates and any discounts, and includes lease rentals and finance and insurance commission.
It excludes sales related taxes and intra-group transactions.
Where the Group acts as an agent on behalf of a principal, the commission earned is recorded within revenue.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
In practice this means that revenue is recognised when vehicles or parts are invoiced and physically dispatched or when the service has been undertaken.
Revenue from commission is recognised when receipt of payment can be assured.
Where a vehicle is sold to a leasing company and a Group company retains a residual value commitment to buy back the vehicle for a specified value at a specified date, the sale is not recognised on the basis that the value of the asset will be realised over the lease period and from the disposal of the vehicle at the end of the lease period.
These vehicles are retained within property, plant and equipment in the consolidated statement of financial position at cost and are depreciated to their residual value over the life of the lease.
Total revenue on a leased vehicle comprises the difference between consideration receivable and residual value.
This sits as deferred income in the consolidated statement of financial position and is released to the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
The residual value commitment, which reflects the price at which the vehicle will be bought back, is held within trade and other payables, according to the date of the commitment.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Finance income is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the amount of income can be measured reliably.
It is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Cost of sales includes the expense relating to the estimated cost of self-insured warranties offered to customers.
These warranties form part of the package of goods and services provided to the customer when purchasing a vehicle and are not a separable product.
84 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 84 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL  INFORMATION SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Group operates various share-based award schemes.
The fair value at the date at which the share-based awards are granted is recognised in the consolidated income statement together with a corresponding increase in shareholders equity on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of awards that are expected to vest.
The impact of any revision is recognised in the consolidated income statement with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
For equity-settled share-based awards, the services received from employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the awards granted.
With the exception of the Group Save As You Earn scheme, the vesting of all share-based awards under all schemes is solely reliant upon non-market conditions, therefore no expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
Where an employee or the Company cancels an award, the charge for that award is recognised as an expense immediately, even though the award does not vest.
FINANCE COSTS Borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset from the first date on which the expenditure is incurred for the asset and until such time as the asset is ready for its intended use.
A Group capitalisation rate is used to determine the magnitude of borrowing costs capitalised on each qualifying asset.
This rate is the weighted average of Group borrowing costs, excluding those borrowings made specifically for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset.
All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
INCOME TAX The charge for current income tax is based on the results for the period as adjusted for items which are not taxed or are disallowed.
It is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Deferred income tax is accounted for using the liability method in respect of temporary differences arising from differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
In principle, deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference is due to goodwill arising on a business combination, or to an asset or liability, the initial recognition of which does not affect either taxable or accounting income.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled using rates enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the consolidated income statement, except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to shareholders equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in shareholders equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle balances net.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS Items which are both material and non-recurring are presented as exceptional items within their relevant consolidated income statement category.
The separate reporting of exceptional items helps provide additional useful information regarding the Groups underlying business performance.
Examples of events which may give rise to the classification of items as exceptional include gains or losses on the disposal of businesses, restructuring of businesses, litigation, asset impairments and exceptional tax related matters.
GOODWILL Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition of a business combination over the Groups share of the fair value of identifiable net assets of the business acquired at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised at cost and is held in the currency of the acquired entity and revalued at the closing exchange rate at the end of each reporting period.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
At the date of acquisition, the goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing and is tested at least annually for impairment.
Gains and losses on disposal of a business include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the business sold except for goodwill arising on business combinations on or before 31 December 1997 which has been deducted from shareholders equity and remains indefinitely in shareholders equity.
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Intangible assets, when acquired separately from a business including computer software, are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Costs comprise purchase price from third parties as well as internally generated development costs where relevant.
Amortisation is provided on a straight line basis to allocate the cost of the asset over its estimated useful life, which in the case of computer software is three to five years.
Amortisation is recognised in the consolidated income statement within net operating expenses.
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination including back orders and customer contracts are capitalised separately from goodwill if the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition.
These intangible assets are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful life, which is generally less than a year.
com 85 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost comprises the purchase price and directly attributable costs of the asset and includes, where relevant, capitalised borrowing costs.
Depreciation is based on cost less estimated residual value and is included within net operating expenses in the consolidated income statement, with the exception of depreciation on interest in leased vehicles which is charged to cost of sales.
It is provided on a straight line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset, except for freehold land which is not depreciated.
For the following categories, the annual rates used are: Freehold buildings and long leasehold buildings 2.0% Short leasehold buildings shorter of lease term or useful life Plant, machinery and equipment 5.0% 33.3% Interest in leased vehicles over the lease term The residual values and useful lives of all assets are reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period and adjusted if necessary.
IMPAIRMENT Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Any impairment losses are included within net operating expenses in the consolidated income statement.
In addition, goodwill is not subject to amortisation but is tested at least annually for impairment.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount, the latter being the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Value in use calculations are performed using cash flow projections, discounted at a pre-tax rate which reflects the asset specific risks and the time value of money.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement within net operating expenses.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against net operating expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Non-financial assets, other than goodwill, which have previously been impaired, are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
INVENTORIES Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises expenditure incurred in bringing inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Used vehicles are carried at the lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell, generally based on external market data available for used vehicles.
Vehicles held on consignment are included within inventories as the Group is considered to have the risks and rewards of ownership.
The corresponding liability is included within trade and other payables.
Inventory can be held on deferred payment terms.
All costs associated with this deferral are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
An inventory provision is recognised in situations where net realisable value is likely to be less than cost such as obsolescence, deterioration, fall in selling price.
When calculating the provision, management considers the nature and condition of the inventory, as well as applying assumptions around anticipated saleability, determined on conditions that exist at the end of the reporting period.
With the exception of parts, generally net realisable value adjustments are applied on an item-by-item basis.
TRADE RECEIVABLES Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for goods sold or services performed in the ordinary course of business.
These are recognised as current assets if collection is due in one year or less.
If collection is due in over a year, they are presented as non-current assets.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows.
TRADE PAYABLES Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business.
These are classified as current liabilities if payment is due in one year or less.
If payment is due at a later date, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Trade payables include the liability for vehicles held on consignment, with the corresponding asset included within inventories.
86 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 86 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL  INFORMATION BORROWINGS Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred, and are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the consolidated income statement over the period of the borrowings, using the effective interest method.
PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes.
The major schemes are defined benefit pension funds with assets held separately from the Group.
The cost of providing benefits under the plans is determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments are included in cost of sales or net operating expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Past service costs are similarly included where the benefits have vested, otherwise they are amortised on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
Administrative scheme expenses associated with the plans are recorded within net operating expenses when incurred, in line with IAS 19 revised.
Net interest income or interest cost relating to the funded defined benefit pension plans is included within finance income or finance costs, as relevant, in the consolidated income statement.
Changes in the retirement benefit obligation or asset due to experience and changes in actuarial assumptions are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, as actuarial gains and losses, in full in the period in which they arise.
Where scheme assets exceed the defined benefit obligation, a net asset is only recognised to the extent that an economic benefit is available to the Group, in accordance with the terms of the scheme and, where relevant, statutory requirements.
The Groups contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to the consolidated income statement in the period to which the contributions relate.
The Group also has a liability in respect of past employees under post-retirement healthcare schemes which have been closed to new entrants.
These schemes are accounted for on a similar basis to that for defined benefit pension plans in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries.
PROVISIONS Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation in respect of a past event, when it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and where the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are discounted when the time value of money is considered to be material, using an appropriate risk free rate on government bonds.
PRODUCT WARRANTY PROVISION A product warranty provision corresponds to self-insured extended warranties beyond those provided by the manufacturer, as part of the sale of a vehicle.
Provision is made for the expected cost of labour and parts based on historical claims experience and expected future trends.
VACANT LEASEHOLD PROVISION A vacant leasehold provision is recognised when the Group is committed to certain leasehold premises for which it no longer has a commercial use.
It is made to the extent of the estimated future net cost, including existing subtenant arrangements if any.
LITIGATION PROVISION A litigation provision is recognised when a litigation case is outstanding at the end of the reporting period and there is a likelihood that the legal claim will be settled.
DISPOSAL GROUP AND ASSETS HELD FOR SALE Where the Group is actively marketing a business and disposal is expected within one year of the end of the reporting period, the assets and liabilities of the associated businesses are separately disclosed in the consolidated statement of financial position as a disposal group.
Assets are classified as assets held for sale if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
Both disposal groups and assets held for sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
SEGMENTAL REPORTING Segment information is reported in accordance with IFRS 8, Operating segments, which requires segmental reporting to be presented on the same basis as the internal management reporting.
The Groups operating segments are countries and the market channels, distribution and retail.
These operating segments are then aggregated into reporting segments to combine those with similar characteristics.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Group classifies its financial instruments in the following categories: loans and receivables: held at fair value through profit and loss: financial liabilities measured at amortised cost: and available for sale.
The classification is determined at initial recognition and depends on the purpose for which the financial instruments are required.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except where the maturity date is more than 12 months after the end of the reporting period.
They are initially recorded at fair value and subsequently recorded at amortised cost.
Held at fair value through profit and loss includes derivative financial assets and liabilities, which are further explained below.
They are classified according to maturity date, within current and non-current assets and liabilities respectively.
com 87 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost include non-derivative financial liabilities which are held at original cost, less amortisation or provisions raised.
Available for sale financial assets include non-derivative financial assets, such as bonds and equity investments.
They are classified as non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of them within 12 months of the end of the reporting period and are held at fair value.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statement of financial position comprise cash at bank and in hand, short-term bank deposits and money market funds.
In the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and cash equivalents, as defined above, net of bank overdrafts.
LEASES Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged to the consolidated income statement.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases where the Group does not hold substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease rental payments are recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
OFFSETTING Netting in the consolidated statement of financial position only occurs to the extent that there is the legal ability and intention to settle net.
As such, bank overdrafts are presented in current liabilities to the extent that there is no intention to offset with the cash balance.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS An outline of the objectives, policies and strategies pursued by the Group in relation to its financial instruments is set out in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as: hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge : or hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge.
FAIR VALUE HEDGE Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the consolidated income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The Group only applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging fixed interest risk on borrowings and future fixed amount currency liabilities on its cross currency interest rate swaps.
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps hedging fixed rate borrowings and changes in the fair value of those borrowings are recognised in the consolidated income statement within finance costs.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is also recognised in the consolidated income statement within finance costs.
CASH FLOW HEDGE For cash flow hedges that meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the portion of the gains or losses on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognised within net operating expenses in the consolidated income statement.
When the hedged forecast transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses that had previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the initial measurement of the acquisition cost or other carrying amount of the asset or liability.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to the consolidated income statement in the same period in which the hedged forecast transaction affects the consolidated income statement.
AVAILABLE FOR SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS Gains and losses on available for sale financial assets are recognised in other comprehensive income, until the investment is sold or is considered to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in other comprehensive income is included in the consolidated income statement.
Cumulative gains and losses on investments held for operational reasons are included within net operating expenses.
Cumulative gains and losses on investments held for financing purposes are included within finance income and finance costs respectively.
88 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 88 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL  INFORMATION SHARE CAPITAL Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Where the Group purchases the Groups equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid is deducted from shareholders equity until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in shareholders equity.
DIVIDENDS Final dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the year end are not recognised in the consolidated financial statements until they have been approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES The Directors have made a number of estimates and assumptions regarding the future, and made some significant judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies.
These are discussed below: GOODWILL Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment in accordance with the accounting policy set out above.
The recoverable amount of cash generating units is determined based on value in use calculations.
These impairment calculations require the use of estimates including projected future cash flows see note 11.
REVENUE RECOGNITION ON VEHICLES SUBJECT TO RESIDUAL VALUE COMMITMENTS Where the Group sells vehicles sourced from within the Group to a finance provider for the purpose of leasing the vehicles to a third party, and retains a residual value commitment, the sale is not recognised on the basis that the value of these assets will be realised over the lease period and from the disposal of the vehicles at the end of the lease period.
CONSIGNMENT STOCK Vehicles held on consignment have been included in finished goods within inventories on the basis that the Group has determined that it holds the significant risks and rewards attached to these vehicles.
PRODUCT WARRANTY PROVISION The product warranty provision requires an estimation of the number of expected warranty claims, and the expected cost of labour and parts necessary to satisfy these warranty claims see note 21.
PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS The net retirement benefit asset or liability is calculated based on the actuarial assumptions detailed in note 5.
A number of these assumptions involve a considerable degree of estimation, including the rate of inflation, discount rate and expected mortality rates.
TAX The Group is subject to income taxes in a number of jurisdictions.
Some degree of estimation is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes see note 8.
There are a number of transactions and calculations during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
In addition, the recognition of deferred tax assets is dependent upon an estimation of future taxable profits that will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised see note 16.
In the event that actual taxable profits are different, such differences may impact the carrying value of such deferred tax assets in future periods.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are reviewed for impairment if events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
When an impairment review is carried out, the recoverable value is determined based on value in use calculations which require estimates to be made of future cash flows see notes 11 and 12.
RESIDUAL VALUE COMMITMENTS The Group has residual value commitments on certain leased vehicles.
These commitments are an estimate of future market value at a specified point in time.
The actual market value of vehicles bought back may vary from the committed purchase value see note 30. www.
