OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE SETS NEW RECORD IN HONG KONG Our operational strength has now seen Crown Motors, our subsidiary in Hong Kong, win the nd Toyota Triple Crown Award for the 22 consecutive year.
This fantastic accolade is based on market-share figures placing Toyota as the number 1 brand in Hong Kong and Crown Motors as leader in passenger cars, commercial vehicles and the market overall.
COM 10 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 PREMIUM OPERATIONS Our matchless automotive experience in markets across the world has helped us develop a unique approach to operational management based on 12 proprietary processes.
This approach has helped us to systematise the quality of our on-the-ground delivery, giving our brand partners a sustainable competitive advantage in markets across the world.
com 11 PREMIUM OPERATIONS Leading the automotive industry with robust operational processes giving Inchcape a competitive advantage in every market.
OUR ROLE IN THE VALUE CHAIN Operating across each stage of the value chain, we provide a well-financed and professional route to market for our brand partners.
PRODUCT SPECIFICATION APPOINT & MANAGE WHOLESALE OF IMPORT & LOGISTICS We apply our local expertise We handle the distribution THE DEALER NETWORK VEHICLES PARTS and unrivalled market We appoint, manage, train process from factory gate TO DEALER NETWORK understanding to specify to retail centre and support franchised We support the models and volumes for dealer networks infrastructure of our each market franchised dealer networks VERTICALLY INTEGRATED VIR Vertically Integrated Retail : we act as both the exclusive distributor and the exclusive retailer.
Being both the Distributor and Retailer gives us a higher margin.
RETAIL VIR Distribution: a single exclusive agreement for each brand in each particular market, DISTRIBUTION under which we manage the entire value chain past the factory gate, from importing vehicles and parts to sales and marketing.
RETAIL OUR 12 ROBUST OPERATIONAL PROCESSES DRIVE SUPERIOR PERFORMANCE Our proprietary approach to management ensures operational excellence in every market.
SUPPLY & WORKING MARKETING & INNOVATION MARKET INTELLIGENCE Our in-depth knowledge of our markets and our CAPITAL MANAGEMENT & FORECASTING OEM partners enables us to bring unparalleled Our understanding and knowledge of the We accurately synchronise supply with insight and understanding to positioning and demand thanks to the exceptional integration markets where we operate has improved promoting brands and models.
Our StarPlus over the years based on powerful retail of our management processes, our market model processes provide marketing excellence measures and our forecasting.
Not only does indicators and leading technology which in our 26 markets.
This not only drives growth in enables us to make accurate sales forecasts this approach enable us to control costs, it revenues and market share, it also further also ensures we can satisfy our customers and to spot trends even before they emerge strengthens the equity and image of our brands.
providing strong competitive advantage in more easily than the competition.
good economic times and bad.
See case study on page 23 See Operating Review See case study on page 23 DEALER NETWORK DEVELOPMENT WORLD CLASS RETAIL STANDARDS CUSTOMER SERVICE In our distribution markets, our route to We continually invest in the worlds most Our unique Inchcape Advantage programme, market is largely managed by third party advanced retail technologies, in infrastructure which underpins our commitment to delivering dealers and our network development and in our people to ensure that all customers consistently superior customer service in every teams provide expertise in network in every market have an outstanding experience outlet, continues to drive sustainable aftersales expansion, retail standards, operational every time they interact with us.
retention and market share growth everywhere training and IT support which enables we operate.
us to deliver world class representation for our brands.
See Chief Executives Statement See case study on page 23 See Chief Executives Statement 12 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NATIONAL CUSTOMER VEHICLE SALES VEHICLE FINANCE AFTERSALES We provide high Our trained MARKETING & ENGAGEMENT & INSURANCE st Our Customer 1 quality brand Our F&I specialists technicians and PRICE POSITIONING representation hi-tech facilities Our deep market strategy, enabled help customers find by Inchcape through state of the the most efficient give us a unique insight enables us to art retail centres and competitive build strong pricing Advantage, ensures way to finance we gain unique outstanding levels their vehicles: and advantage power into our brands of customer service and grow market share customer insight provide customers so we consistently the opportunity deliver superior to purchase customer service ancillary products in every market Retail: In our four retail-only markets UK, Russia, China and Poland, Inchcape provides high quality brand representation through large scale retail facilities on a regional basis.
Our competitive advantage is achieved through exceptional customer service standards delivered globally through our unique Inchcape Advantage programme.
PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT CAPEX & INVESTMENT GLOBAL IT INFRASTRUCTURE A key element of Inchcapes way of working The strength of the Groups balance sheet Proprietary Distribution, VIR and Retail is the careful balance between strong and our brand relationships give us access information technology enhances our central governance and local management, to investment opportunities.
We follow a productivity across the Group.
Our global who are empowered to make decisions based highly disciplined and selective approach iPower programme is designed to reduce on their market understanding.
This means to investment that targets high growth and complexity and to provide our businesses Inchcape can respond rapidly and effectively high margin markets.
with better management information on at every level to changing market conditions.
See Executive Committee on page 46 See Operating Review See Chief Executives Statement RISK MANAGEMENT INVESTING IN PEOPLE REWARDING PERFORMANCE Within our operationally decentralised The key to outperforming our competition in Our people thrive in a culture which organisation, the Groups risk appetite is every market is to ensure that we have winning recognises individual contributions to dictated by the Board while day-to-day risk people in winning teams.
Thats why Inchcape is our collective performance.
This means that oversight is the responsibility of the Group iPOM focused, both centrally and locally, on ensuring recognition and acclaim are as important Inchcape Peace of Mind committee.
Oversight that we have in place the right people, the right as compensation in maintaining an of risk management, however, remains in the learning opportunities, the right reward systems engaged workforce made up of committed, hands of the most senior management in our and the right culture.
See Corporate Governance Report See Corporate Responsibility Report See Directors Report on Remuneration www.
