STRATEGIC REPORT Our fourth operating division At the heart of everything Global Support is right at the heart of Informa.
Its the Team behind the Teams that deliver our events, books and subscription products every year.
The decisions made at Global Support are pivotal to the success of our individual businesses around the world.
Our established centres of excellence in accounting, compliance, human resources, IT, legal, tax and customer service, provide essential support to help all Informas divisions run to their maximum productivity.
Global Support ensures we meet our obligations, protect our assets, collaborate across divisions where possible and ensure all operations consistently run to the highest standards.
The assurance Global Support provides means the businesses themselves are free to focus on what they do best, that is to take advantage of new opportunities in their respective fields.
14 Global Suport CORPORATE FINANCE time with the marketing function across all LEGAL Informa businesses.
Group Marketing brings The Corporate Finance team co-ordinates Informas Legal team provides expert fresh thinking to our products and services, Informas acquisition and disposal activity advice to the Group and are regularly identifying ways to increase revenues, and also incorporates the Treasury team, involved in negotiating commercial improve productivity and reduce costs.
managing the debt finances of Informa and contracts, assisting with corporate making the most effective use of cash by transactions and offering specialist legal GROUP TAX reducing borrowings where possible and support at both Group level and to the Working alongside Group Finance, our or investing in new businesses.
Group Tax function looks after the tax CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CR affairs of the Company.
It takes the lead SHARED SERVICE CENTRES in ensuring tax compliance is maintained Our CR programme, Louder than Words, By applying their professional expertise globally.
Its task is to ensure the Group is is managed centrally by a small team, in finance and customer operations, our managed in a tax efficient manner, whilst reporting into Emma Blaney, Group Shared Service Centres enable each of our paying all the tax that it is required to by HR Director.
Louder than Words has divisions to focus on global operational law and ensuring the Group is not involved four priority areas: our content, people, activities.
Financial support includes in tax practices that could harm the environment and community.
general ledger, accounts payable, accounts Groups reputation.
receivable invoicing through to credit The central CR team has a global remit control, payroll, taxation, compliance and acts as a catalyst for ideas relating to HUMAN RESOURCES TALENT and decision support work, including these key areas.
The team work closely Our people are the driving force of budgeting and forecasting.
Customer with 21 CR leaders across the Group who in our business, they are our lifeblood operations support extends from initial turn liaise with their local CEO MD to align and deserve the best HR Skills.
We purchase to actual product delivery.
with the Louder than Words programme pride ourselves on our entrepreneurial whilst tailoring to their geographical culture, so finding and retaining the right TECHNOLOGY location and business priorities.
people who share our values, drive and Technology is at the heart of Informas enthusiasm is critical to our success.
The CR team is also responsible for global strategy.
From customer selfservice responding to third-party information and profile management to research and Our HR Teams around the world requests such as the Climate Disclosure data provisioning, our technology offering focus on talent management, working Leadership Index and Dow Jones opens up new channels of information and with our business leaders to ensure Sustainability Index, brokering relationships knowledge to all our key stakeholders we are attracting, developing and with community partners and collecting internal and external.
retaining talent through recognition, key performance indicators relating to nurturing, development opportunities Blending best of breed platforms with the four priorities.
cutting edge customised internal development, Informas technology GROUP FINANCE HR is seen as a core management offering results in state-of-the-art digital Accounting for Informas businesses responsibility which is pivotal to our product delivery, CRM, web experience globally is completed in a number of success.
Senior Managers are intrinsically and eCommerce.
Seamless integration regionalised Shared Service Centres.
part of our programs which ensure we ensures a 360 degree view of customers Our Group Finance team consolidate continue to attract and retain the best of and prospects and that every process from the financial and non-financial data breed in every field and function in which financial transactions to data visualisation supplied by those centres.
is fast, reliable and accurate.
a single source of internal and external information.
The internal management INFORMA IP GMBH IPCo information is used by the various Informa IPCo is the Groups centre for protecting divisions, Global Support and the Board Informas key Intellectual Property assets for analysis and decision making.
The creative ideas that involve high levels of external statutory information is available skill and effort.
IPCo protects these assets to investors and analysts to track the through legal and regulatory actions performance of Informa.
and fosters a culture of innovation that encourages the creation of new assets.
GROUP MARKETING The team has expertise in finance, law, The central Group Marketing team brand management and protection, comprises experienced staff who have training, new product development and worked in various operational roles across systems architecture.
The IPCo team the business.
Their level of hands-on operates across Informa, at both Group expertise offers invaluable support.
and divisional level, to enhance Intellectual Property assets.
With key people based in the UK, Europe, US and Asia Pacific, Group Marketing provides local knowledge, working in local 15
