Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2013 1 GENERAL INFORMATION The Company is incorporated in Jersey under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and headquartered in Switzerland.
The address of the registered office is given on page 37.
The Consolidated Financial Statements as at 31 December 2013 and for year then ended comprise those of the Company and its subsidiaries and its interests in joint ventures together referred to as the Group.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic Report sections of the Directors Report on page 37.
The Directors have, at the time of approving the Consolidated Financial Statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Further detail is contained in the Strategic Report on page 40.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling GBP, the functional currency of the Parent Company, Informa plc.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in Note 3.
The comparative information in the Consolidated Income Statement and associated notes has been restated for the impact of the Corporate Training businesses discontinued operations.
In line with the requirements of IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position has not been restated.
Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs Standards and interpretations adopted in the current year The following new standards, amendments and interpretations have been adopted in the current year: Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income IAS 12 amended 2010 Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets Amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits Improvements to IFRSs 2009 2011 cycle issued May 2012 The adoption of these standards and interpretations has not led to any changes to the Groups accounting policies, except for the change in now recognising interest based on the net defined benefit liability under IAS 19.
Given the magnitude of the net defined benefit liability, the interest charge is materially consistent under both bases and therefore the prior period charge has not been restated.
Furthermore, we have changed the presentation of items in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income to reflect the amendment to IAS 1.
Standards and interpretations in issue, not yet adopted At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but have not yet come into effect: IAS 19 amended Employee Benefits Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions not endorsed by the EU IAS 27 revised 2011 Separate Financial Statements endorsed by the EU IAS 28 revised 2011 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures endorsed by the EU IAS 32 amended Financial Instruments: Presentation Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities endorsed by the EU IAS 36 amended Impairment of Assets Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets endorsed by the EU IAS 39 amended Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting endorsed by the EU IFRS 9 Financial Instruments not endorsed by the EU IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements endorsed by the EU IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements endorsed by the EU IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities endorsed by the EU Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Investment Entities endorsed by the EU IFRIC Interpretation 21 Levies not endorsed by the EU Improvements to IFRSs 2010 2012 cycle issued December 2013 not endorsed by the EU Improvements to IFRSs 2011 2013 cycle issued December 2013 not endorsed by the EU Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 75 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 1 GENERAL INFORMATION CONTINUED The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group, except for: IFRS 9 is a new standard which enhances the ability of investors and other users of financial information to understand the accounting for financial assets and reduces complexity.
IFRS 9 uses a single approach to determine whether a financial asset is measured at amortised cost or fair value, replacing the many different rules in IAS 39.
Other components to the standard, such as hedge accounting, will be issued in the first half of 2014.
This standard is currently effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2015.
We will evaluate the impact in early 2014 once all components of the standard are issued.
IFRS 10 is a new standard which replaces the portion of IAS 27 that addresses the accounting for consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 10 includes a new definition of control, which determines which entities are consolidated.
This standard is effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2014.
The Group has evaluated the impact on its consolidation and concluded that IFRS 10 would currently have no impact.
However for any future acquisitions, the implications of IFRS 10 will be considered.
IFRS 11 is a new standard which replaces IAS 31 and SIC 13.
Under IFRS 11 joint control is defined as the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement which exists only when the decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
IFRS 11 addresses only two forms of joint arrangements joint operations and joint ventures and removes the option to account for using proportionate consolidation.
Since the current accounting for Joint Ventures is by proportionate consolidation, the Group is currently in the process of changing its consolidation system to equity accounting.
This change in policy will require a restatement of the comparative period as well.
INFORMA PLC 76 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 2 BASIS OF PREPARATION The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
Adjusted results Management believes that adjusted results and adjusted earnings per share Note 15 provide additional useful information on underlying trends to shareholders.
These measures are used for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation arrangements for employees.
The term adjusted is not a defined term under IFRS and may not therefore be comparable with similarly titled profit measurements reported by other companies.
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measurements of profit.
The following charges credits are presented as adjusting items: 2013 2012 Continuing operations Notes m m Restructuring and reorganisation costs 8 14.2 9.9 Acquisition related costs 7 5.8 1.3 Intangible asset amortisation 105.1 111.8 Impairment European Conferences 16 40.5 80.0 Impairment Robbins Gioia loan receivable 8.3 Impairment Intangible software assets 17 17.1 Impairment Other 17 0.3 1.3 Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration 7 2.5 1.6 Loss on disposal of businesses 21 3.4 27.5 Fair value gain on non-controlling interest 18 1.0 Interest on overdue tax 11 0.3 3.1 Early termination of cross currency swaps 12 4.5 191.9 227.8 Tax related to adjusting items 13 39.8 31.4 Tax provision release net of associated deferred tax charge 13 13.7 60.0 138.4 136.4 The principal adjustments made are in respect of: restructuring and reorganisation costs the costs incurred by the Group in reorganising and integrating acquired businesses, nonrecurring business restructuring and the closure or disposal of businesses: acquisition related costs the costs incurred by the Group in making share or asset acquisitions: intangible asset amortisation the Group continues to amortise other intangible assets.
The amortisation charge in respect of intangible software assets and product development is included in the adjusted results.
The amortisation charge in respect of all remaining other intangible assets is excluded from the adjusted results as management does not see these charges as integral to underlying trading: impairment the Group tests for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently when an indicator exists.
The material impairment charges are individually disclosed.
The impairment charge for those other separately identified intangible assets has been linked with subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration of those acquisitions: loss on disposal of businesses the loss on disposal includes the fair value of consideration less the net assets liabilities disposed, non-controlling interest and costs directly attributable with the disposal: fair value gain on non-controlling interest the fair value gain is the re-measurement of our existing non-controlling interest when the Group increases its shareholding: and early termination of cross currency swaps following the early termination of Euro cross currency swaps, the remaining gain deferred in equity is recycled to the Consolidated Income Statement as an adjusting item.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 77 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 2 BASIS OF PREPARATION CONTINUED Adjusted results continued The tax related to adjusting items is the tax effect of the items above and in 2013 it also included the effect of the reduction in the UK corporation tax rate applicable for the purposes of calculating deferred tax from 23% to 20% year ended 31 December 2012: 25% reduced to 23%.
In the previous financial year the Group resolved a number of outstanding tax issues which resulted in the Group making substantial adjustments to its tax provisions which are also shown as an adjusting item in the results for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2013.
Significant exchange rates The following significant exchange rates versus GBP were applied during the year: Average rate Closing rate 2013 2012 2013 2012 USD 1.5635 1.5898 1.6510 1.6175 EUR 1.1776 1.2308 1.1997 1.2265 INFORMA PLC 78 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 3 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of accounting The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain assets and financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted, all of which have been consistently applied, are set out below.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
Basis of consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the accounts of the Company and all of its subsidiaries.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of acquired subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by other members of the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expense are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interest in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity and consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination plus their share of changes in equity since that date.
Joint ventures: The Groups interests in jointly controlled entities are accounted for by proportionate consolidation.
The Group combines its share of the joint ventures individual income and expenses, assets and liabilities and cash flows on a line-by-line basis with similar items in the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Group recognises the portion of gains or losses on the sale of assets by the Group to the joint venture that is attributable to the other ventures.
The Group does not recognise its share of profits or losses from the joint venture that result from the Groups purchase of assets from the joint venture until it re-sells the assets to an independent party.
However, a loss on the transaction is recognised immediately if the loss provides evidence of a reduction in the net realisable value of current assets, or an impairment loss.
Associates: Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the investors share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition.
Revenue Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes, and provisions for returns and cancellations.
Subscription income is deferred and recognised over the term of the subscription.
Attendee, sponsorship and exhibitor income is deferred and recognised when the event is held.
Copy sales revenue is recognised on the sale of the product.
Advertising revenue is recognised on issue of the publication.
Consulting income is recognised as services are delivered.
Where consultancy services are provided over a period of time, revenue is recognised using the stage of completion method when the outcome of the contract can be measured reliably.
The stage of completion is determined with regards to key milestones in the contract being attained and the services performed under the contract to date as a percentage of the total services to be performed.
Interest income Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividend income Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of fair values of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 3 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Business combinations continued Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability, will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it should not be remeasured until it is finally settled within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling interest over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If this consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised in profit or loss.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary companies and businesses is calculated as the excess of purchase consideration over the fair value of net identifiable assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition.
It is recognised as an asset at cost, assessed for impairment at least annually and subsequently measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash generating units, as defined by the Board for internal management purposes, expected to benefit from the combination.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently when there is an indication that it may be impaired.
Where an impairment test is performed a discounted cash flow analysis is carried out based on the cash flows of the cash generating unit compared with the carrying value of that goodwill.
Management estimate the discount rates as the risk affected cost of capital for the particular cash generating units.
If the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Upon disposal, the attributable carrying value of goodwill is included in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are initially measured at cost.
For business combinations, cost is calculated based on the Groups valuation methodologies Note 18.
These assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis, which are as follows: Book lists 20 years Journal titles 20 years Database content and intellectual property 320 years Exhibitions and Conferences 320 years Software which is not integral to a related item of hardware is included in intangible assets.
Capitalised internal-use software costs include external direct costs of materials and services consumed in developing or obtaining the software, and payroll and payroll related costs for employees who are directly associated with, and who devote substantial time to, the project.
Capitalisation of these costs ceases no later than the point at which the project is substantially complete and ready for its internal purpose.
These costs are amortised on a straight line basis over their expected useful lives which are deemed to be 310 years.
The expected useful lives of intangible assets are reviewed annually.
During the period we realigned our assumptions on the useful economic lives of our book lists and journal titles to be more in line with modern industry benchmarks.
We reduced the assumed economic life to 20 years from 40 years, in line with the future economic benefits derived from these assets.
The impact in the period is an increase in amortisation charge for Academic Publishing division of 9.4m.
The Group does not have any intangible assets with indefinite lives excluding goodwill.
Property and equipment Property and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of property and equipment on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
The rates of depreciation are as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Leasehold land and buildings Over life of the lease Equipment, fixtures and fittings 315 years Freehold land is not depreciated.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the net sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
INFORMA PLC 80 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Non-current assets classified as held for sale Non-current assets and disposal Groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal Groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal Group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Inventory Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and expenses incurred in bringing the inventory to its present location and condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less marketing and distribution costs expected to be incurred.
Foreign currencies Transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are retranslated at the rates ruling at that date.
These translation differences are disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the Consolidated Income Statement for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
The statements of financial position of foreign subsidiaries are translated into pounds sterling at the closing rates of exchange.
The results are translated at an average rate, recalculated for each month between that months closing rate and the equivalent for the preceding month.
Foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of opening net investments in foreign subsidiaries at the closing rate are taken directly to the translation reserve.
In addition, foreign exchange differences arising from retranslation of the foreign subsidiaries results from monthly average rate to closing rate are also taken directly to the Groups hedging and translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the financial year in which the operations are disposed of.
The translation movement on matched long-term foreign currency borrowings, qualifying as hedging instruments under IAS 39, are also taken directly to the hedging reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are capitalised at their fair value on the inception of the lease and depreciated over the shorter of the period of the lease and the estimated useful economic lives of the assets.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as a finance lease obligation.
Finance charges are allocated over the period of the lease in proportion to the capital amount outstanding and are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in equal annual amounts over the lease term.
Rental income from sub leasing property space is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease and is matched with the corresponding payments made under the head lease.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 3 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Consolidated Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax nor accounting profit.
Deferred tax is calculated for all business combinations in respect of intangible assets and properties.
A deferred tax liability is recognised to the extent that the fair value of the assets for accounting purposes exceeds the value of those assets for tax purposes and will form part of the associated goodwill on acquisition.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Consolidated Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Pension costs Certain Group companies operate defined contribution pension schemes for employees.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from the individual companies.
The pension cost charge associated with these schemes represents contributions payable and is charged as an expense when they fall due.
The Group also operates funded defined benefit schemes for employees.
The cost of providing these benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each reporting date.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent the benefits are vested, and otherwise are amortised on a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The current service cost and the recognised element of any past service cost are presented within operating profit.
Net interest is calculated by applying a discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, outside of the Consolidated Income Statement and in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The expected return on scheme assets reflects the estimate made by management of the longterm yields that will arise from the specific assets held within the pension scheme.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost and the fair value of any relevant scheme assets.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
A fair value for the equity-settled share awards is measured at the date of grant.
The fair value of the Share Options and Long-Term Incentive Plan is measured using the Binomial or Monte Carlo model of valuation, which are considered to be the most appropriate valuation techniques.
The valuation takes into account factors such as non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
To assign a fair value to share awards granted under the Share Matching Plan where the proportion of the award released is dependent on the level of total shareholder return, the Monte Carlo Simulation methodology is considered the most appropriate.
An expense is recognised to spread the fair value of each award over the vesting period on a straight line basis, after allowing for an estimate of the share awards that will actually vest.
The estimate of vesting is reviewed annually, with any impact on the cumulative charge being recognised immediately.
INFORMA PLC 82 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 Financial assets Financial assets are recognised in the Groups Statement of Financial Position when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are classified into the following categories: loans and receivables, cash and cash equivalents, and available-for-sale investments.
The classification is determined by management upon initial recognition, and it is based on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Effective interest method The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset and of allocating interest income over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts including all fees on points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts through the expected life of the financial asset, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for all debt instruments within the Group.
Loans and receivables Trade receivables, loans and other receivables are measured on initial recognition at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible with a maturity of three months or less to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
Available-for-sale investments Listed and unlisted shares held by the Group that are traded in an active market are classified as being available-for-sale and are stated at fair value.
Fair values of listed securities are based on quoted market prices and the unlisted securities are based on cost.
Gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the Consolidated Income Statement for the period.
Where the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the investments revaluation reserve is included in profit or loss for the period.
Impairment of financial assets Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each reporting date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been negatively impacted.
For unlisted shares classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered to be objective evidence of impairment.
For all other financial assets objective evidence of impairment could include: significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty: or default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: or it is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial re-organisation.
For certain categories of financial assets, such as trade receivables, assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are subsequently assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include the Groups past experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit period of 30 days 2012: 32 days, as well as observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with increased default risk on receivables.
A specific provision will also be raised for trade receivables when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments more than 90 days overdue are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 3 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Impairment of financial assets continued For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of a provision account.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written off against the provision account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the provision account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the provision account are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Derecognition of financial assets The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Group Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Classification as debt or equity Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the Consolidated Income Statement using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Finance costs Finance costs of debts are capitalised against the debt value on first drawdown of the debt and are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement using the effective interest rate method.
Trade payables Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Derecognition of financial liabilities The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
INFORMA PLC 84 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The derivative instruments utilised by the Group to hedge these exposures are primarily interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps.
The Group does not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured to their fair value at each reporting date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of a change of fair value of recognised assets and liabilities or firm commitments fair value hedges : hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge : or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedge.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
Fair value hedge: Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or loss immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
The change in the fair value of the hedging instrument and the change in the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognised in the line of the Consolidated Income Statement relating to the hedged item.
Cash flow hedge: The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecast transaction results in the recognition of a financial asset or financial liability, amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss in the same line of the Consolidated Income Statement as the recognised hedged item.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously accumulated in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
Hedges of net investment in foreign operations: Hedges of net investment in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument in relation to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in the other comprehensive income and accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve.
Gains and losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve are reclassified to profit or loss when the hedged item is disposed of.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedge instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement in the period.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in Note 32.
ESOP Trust shares Own shares deducted in arriving at shareholders funds represent the cost of the Companys ordinary shares acquired by the Employee Share Option Plan ESOP trusts in connection with certain of the Groups employee share schemes.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the reporting date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Restructuring provisions are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been communicated to the affected parties.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 85 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 4 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in Note 3, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
In addition to the judgement taken by management in selecting and applying the accounting policies set out above, the Directors have made the following judgements concerning the amounts recognised in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Valuation and asset lives of separately identifiable intangible assets In order to determine the value of the separately identifiable intangible assets on a business combination, management are required to make estimates when utilising the Groups valuation methodologies.
These methodologies include the use of discounted cash flows and revenue forecasts.
For significant acquisitions management have considered the advice of third party independent valuers in identifying and calculating the valuation of any intangible assets arising on acquisition.
Asset lives are estimated based on the nature of the intangible asset acquired and range between 3 and 20 years.
Valuation of share-based payments In order to determine the value of share-based payments, management are required to make an estimation of the effects of nontransferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
The expected volatility is determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Companys share price calculated over one, two and three years back from the date of grant.
The list of inputs used in the Binomial and Monte Carlo Simulation models to calculate the fair values are provided in Note 10.
Valuation of financial instruments at fair value Management have made a number of assumptions with regards to the models used to value financial instruments at their fair value at year end.
Valuation techniques commonly used by market practitioners are applied.
Note 32 details the methods used to value the primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Groups borrowing requirements and the derivative financial instruments held to manage the interest rate profile.
For derivative financial instruments, assumptions are made based on quoted market rates adjusted for specific features of the instrument.
Other financial instruments are valued using a discounted cash flow analysis based on assumptions supported, where possible, by observable market prices or rates.
Recoverability of long-term receivables There are a number of external loans which are repayable over the next ten years.
The recoverability of the capital and interest payments is dependent on the financial success of the external parties over the coming years.
For each significant loan receivable we will assess whether a credit risk provision is required.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets There are a number of assumptions management have considered in performing impairment reviews of goodwill and intangible assets.
In determining whether goodwill or intangible assets are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires management to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
Note 16 details the assumptions that have been applied.
Pension assumptions There are a number of assumptions management have considered on the advice of actuaries which have an impact on the results of the valuation of the pension scheme liabilities at year end.
The most significant assumptions are those relating to the discount rate of return on investments and the rates of increase in salaries and pensions.
Note 38 details the assumptions which have been adopted.
Deferred tax Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised.
In particular, judgement is used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should be recognised with consideration given to the timing and level of future taxable income.
Provisions Provisions have been made for onerous leases, dilapidations and restructuring.
These provisions are estimates and the actual costs and timing of future cash flows are dependent on future events.
Any difference between expectations and the actual future liability will be accounted for in the period when such determination is made.
Details of the Groups provisions are set out in Note 29.
Contingent consideration Contingent consideration relating to acquisitions has been included based on management estimates of the most likely outcome Note 18.
However, any subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
INFORMA PLC 86 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 5 REVENUE An analysis of the Groups revenue is as follows: 2013 2012 m m Subscriptions 477.9 468.5 Attendee 172.4 179.7 Copy sales 222.5 210.4 Exhibitor 166.4 146.0 Sponsorship 67.5 63.4 Consulting 15.4 Advertising 25.7 27.2 Total revenue from continuing operations 1,132.4 1,110.6 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 6 BUSINESS SEGMENTS Business segments Management has identified reportable segments based on financial information used by the Board of Directors in allocating resources and making strategic decisions.
We consider the Chief Operating Decision Maker to be the Executive Directors.
Unless otherwise indicated the segment information reported on the following pages does not include any amounts for discontinued operations, which are described in more detail in Note 20.
The Groups three identified reportable segments under IFRS 8 Operating Segments are therefore as follows: Academic Publishing This division, which includes the Taylor & Francis publishing business, provides a portfolio of online and print publications, primarily for academic users across the spectrum of Science, Technology, Medicine, Humanities and Social Sciences.
This segment was previously called Academic Information.
Business Intelligence This division, which includes Informa Business Information and Informa Financial Information provides information, across a range of formats and on a global basis, to a variety of sectors including Medical, Pharmaceutical, Financial, Law, Commerce, Commodities, Maritime and Telecoms.
This segment was previously called Professional and Commercial Information.
Global Events With the disposal of the Corporate Training businesses, the Events and Training segment has been renamed as the Global Events segment.
The Global Events business consists of trade shows and exhibitions and large and small conferences.
Segment revenue and results 31 December 2013 Academic Business Global Publishing Intelligence Events Total m m m m Revenue Note 5 367.1 350.6 414.7 1,132.4 Adjusted operating profit 130.9 109.1 95.5 335.5 Restructuring and reorganisation costs Note 8 0.9 9.3 4.0 14.2 Acquisition related costs Note 2 0.1 0.8 4.9 5.8 Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration Note 2 2.8 0.3 2.5 1 Intangible asset amortisation 35.9 33.2 36.0 105.1 Impairment Note 2 5.5 5.3 55.4 66.2 Operating profit loss 88.5 63.3 5.1 146.7 Loss on disposal of businesses Note 21 3.4 Finance costs Note 11 29.5 Investment income Note 12 1.9 Profit before tax from continuing operations 115.7 1 Excludes software amortisation.
INFORMA PLC 88 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 Segment revenue and results 31 December 2012 Academic Business Global Publishing Intelligence Events Total m m m m Revenue Note 5 340.3 356.6 413.7 1,110.6 Adjusted operating profit 126.1 120.7 83.7 330.5 Restructuring and reorganisation costs Note 8 0.9 4.2 4.8 9.9 Acquisition related costs Note 2 0.3 1.0 1.3 Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration Note 2 1.3 0.3 1.6 1 Intangible asset amortisation 27.2 47.2 37.4 111.8 Impairment Note 2 1.1 80.2 81.3 Operating profit loss 98.0 69.2 39.4 127.8 Loss on disposal of businesses Note 21 27.5 Fair value gain on non-controlling interest Note 2 1.0 Finance costs Note 11 41.4 Investment income Note 12 10.5 Profit before tax from continuing operations 70.4 1 Excludes software amortisation.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in Note 3.
Adjusted operating result by operating segment is the measure reported to the Groups Chief Executive for the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance.
Finance costs and investment income are not allocated to segments, as this type of activity is driven by the central treasury function, which manages the cash positions of the Group.
Segment assets 2013 2012 m m Academic Publishing 865.9 870.7 Business Intelligence 1,142.7 1,151.9 Global Events 652.6 857.9 Total segment assets 2,661.2 2,880.5 Unallocated assets 51.8 53.6 Total assets 2,713.0 2,934.1 For the purpose of monitoring segment performance and allocating resources between segments, management monitors the tangible, intangible and financial assets attributable to each segment.
All assets are allocated to reportable segments except for corporate balances, including some intangible software assets, balances receivable from businesses sold and taxation current and deferred.
Assets used jointly by reportable segments are allocated on the basis of the revenues earned by individual reportable segment.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 6 BUSINESS SEGMENTS CONTINUED Segment assets continued The Groups revenues from its major products and services were as follows: 2013 2012 m m Academic Publishing Subscriptions 188.9 182.7 Copy sales 178.2 157.6 Total Academic Publishing 367.1 340.3 Business Intelligence Subscriptions 289.0 285.8 Copy sales 44.3 52.8 Advertising 17.3 18.0 Total Business Intelligence 350.6 356.6 Global Events Attendee 172.4 179.7 Exhibitor 166.4 146.0 Sponsorship 67.5 63.4 Consulting 15.4 Advertising 8.4 9.2 Total Global Events 414.7 413.7 Total revenue from continuing operations 1,132.4 1,110.6 Information about major customers The Groups revenue by location of customer and information about its segment assets by geographical location are detailed below: Revenue from continuing operations Segment assets 2013 2012 2013 2012 Geographical information m m m m United Kingdom 159.4 144.7 1,281.2 1,320.3 North America 386.8 356.9 963.9 1,087.8 Continental Europe 253.1 278.6 107.9 185.8 Rest of World 333.1 330.4 360.0 340.2 1,132.4 1,110.6 2,713.0 2,934.1 No individual customer amounts to more than 10% of the Groups revenue.
INFORMA PLC 90 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 7 NET OPERATING EXPENSES Operating profit has been arrived at after charging crediting : Adjusted Adjusting Statutory Adjusted Adjusting Statutory results items results results items results 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 Notes m m m m m m Cost of sales 364.5 364.5 354.7 354.7 Staff costs excluding redundancy costs 9 322.6 322.6 323.4 323.4 Amortisation of other intangible assets 15.8 105.1 120.9 13.8 111.8 125.6 Depreciation 6.4 6.4 6.5 6.5 Impairment 2 66.2 66.2 81.3 81.3 Net foreign exchange loss 0.4 0.4 1.8 1.8 Auditors remuneration for audit services see below 1.0 1.0 1.1 1.1 Operating lease expenses Land and buildings 36 19.4 19.4 21.2 21.2 Other 36 1.0 1.0 1.1 1.1 Restructuring and reorganisation costs 8 14.2 14.2 9.9 9.9 Acquisition related costs 2 5.8 5.8 1.3 1.3 Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration 2 2.5 2.5 1.6 1.6 Other operating expenses 65.8 65.8 56.5 56.5 Total net operating expenses from continuing operations 796.9 188.8 985.7 780.1 202.7 982.8 Amounts payable to the auditor, Deloitte LLP and their associates by the Company and its subsidiary undertakings is provided below: 2013 2012 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual financial statements 0.6 0.7 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services to the Group: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.4 0.4 Total audit fees 1.0 1.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for non-audit services comprises: Audit related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Other services 0.4 0.1 Total non-audit fees 0.5 0.2 The fees payable for other services of 0.4m relates to corporate finance services on the carve-out work of the Corporate Training businesses, of which 0.3m of this fee was re-imbursed from the acquirer.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 47 and includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditor.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 8 RESTRUCTURING AND REORGANISATION COSTS 2013 2012 m m Reorganisation costs 3.0 2.1 Redundancy costs 10.7 6.8 Vacant property provisions 0.5 1.0 14.2 9.9 9 STAFF NUMBERS AND COSTS The monthly average number of persons employed by the Group including Directors during the year, analysed by segment, was as follows: Number of employees 2013 2012 Academic Publishing 1,757 1,703 Business Intelligence 2,518 2,790 Global Events 2,319 2,636 6,594 7,129 Their aggregate remuneration comprised: 2013 2012 m m Wages and salaries 283.9 281.9 Social security costs 27.8 29.2 Pension costs charged to operating profit Note 38 8.7 8.5 Share-based payment Note 10 2.2 3.8 Staff costs excluding redundancy costs 322.6 323.4 Redundancy costs Note 8 10.7 6.8 333.3 330.2 The remuneration of Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Note 39.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 65.
2013 2012 m m Short-term employee benefits 4.5 3.5 Post-employment benefits 0.5 0.4 Share incentive gains and payments 0.6 1.4 5.6 5.3 INFORMA PLC 92 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 10 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Group Long-Term Incentive Plans LTIPs and share options provide for a grant price equal to the average quoted market price of the Groups shares on the date of grant.
The vesting period is generally three years.
The options expire if they remain unexercised after the exercise period has lapsed.
Furthermore, options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest, unless they meet certain eligibility criteria.
The Group recognised total expenses of 2.2m 2012: 3.8m related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions in the year ended 31 December 2013.
2 From 1 January of year in which grant made.
3 50% split of total awards granted.
In order to satisfy the share awards granted under Long-Term Incentive Plan, the share capital would be increased by up to 1,828,667 shares.
The Company is planning to issue additional share capital to satisfy the awards although if circumstances change it may instead buy the shares as needed on the open market.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over one, two and three years back from the date of grant.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 93 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 10 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED Share options The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows: 2013 2012 Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise Options price p Options price p Outstanding at the beginning of the year 230,166 228.40 Forfeited lapsed during the year 6,657 212.32 Exercised during the year 223,509 228.88 Outstanding at the end of the year Exercisable at the end of the year The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was nil 2012: 228.88p.
There were no options outstanding at 31 December 2012 and 2013 Note 33.
Inputs used to calculate those fair values and the method of calculation are set out in the following tables: Expected Risk Estimated Share Exercise Expected life free Dividend Date of grant fair value price price volatility years rate yield 1 4 March 2004 1.18 3.76 3.73 32.3% 5.0 4.8% 2.0% 22 March 2004 10 May 2004 3.41 1 Executive 1.08 3.49 adjusted 32.8% 4.9 4.6% 2.0% 22 March 2004 10 May 2004 3.41 1 Employee 0.93 3.49 adjusted 32.8% 3.5 4.2% 2.0% 1 15 September 2004 1.16 3.71 3.70 30.6% 5.0 5.0% 2.0% 1 Valued using the Binomial model of valuation.
Adjusted for the business combination in 2004 of Taylor & Francis Group plc and Informa Group plc, and in 2005 for a rights issue.
11 FINANCE COSTS 1 2013 2012 Notes m m Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 29.2 33.8 Interest cost on pension scheme liabilities 38 0.6 4.2 Total interest expense 29.8 38.0 Cash flow hedge ineffectiveness loss 0.3 Interest on overdue tax 2 0.3 3.1 29.5 41.4 1 The interest cost on pension scheme liabilities in 2013 is prepared in accordance with the amendment to IAS 19.
On the basis of materiality, the comparatives have not been restated.
INFORMA PLC 94 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 12 INVESTMENT INCOME 1 2013 2012 Notes m m Loans and receivables: Interest income on bank deposits 0.6 1.0 Interest income on non-current receivables 25 1.3 1.6 Expected return on pension scheme assets 38 3.4 Early termination of cross currency swaps 2 4.5 1.9 10.5 1 The expected return on pension scheme assets in 2013 is prepared in accordance with the amendment to IAS 19.
13 TAXATION The tax charge credit comprises: 2013 2012 Notes m m Current tax: Current year 51.0 51.1 Tax provision release 13.7 61.5 Interest on overdue tax reclassified to Finance costs 3.1 Deferred tax: Current year 30 19.4 6.8 Credit arising from UK corporation tax rate change 30 5.3 4.5 Exceptional deferred tax charge in respect of prior years 30 1.5 Total tax charge credit on profit on ordinary activities 12.6 23.3 The tax shown as an adjusting item within the Consolidated Income Statement relates to the following: Gross Tax Gross Tax 2013 2013 2012 2012 Continuing operations Notes m m m m Restructuring and reorganisation costs 8 14.2 3.7 9.9 2.6 Acquisition related costs 2 5.8 1.3 Amortisation of other intangible assets 105.1 26.9 111.8 22.6 Impairment 2 66.2 4.0 81.3 Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration 2 2.5 1.6 Loss on disposal of businesses 21 3.4 27.5 0.3 Fair value gain on non-controlling interest 2 1.0 Interest on overdue tax 11 0.3 0.1 3.1 3.1 Early termination of cross currency swaps 12 4.5 1.1 Deferred tax credit arising from UK corporation tax rate change 30 5.3 4.5 Tax provision release net of associated deferred tax charge 2 13.7 60.0 191.9 53.5 227.8 91.4 The current and deferred tax is calculated on the estimated assessable profit for the year.
Taxation is calculated on each jurisdiction based on the prevailing rates of that jurisdiction.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 13 TAXATION CONTINUED The total tax charge credit for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows: 2013 2012 m % m % Profit before tax 115.7 70.4 Tax charge at effective UK statutory rate of 23.25% 2012: 24.5% 26.9 23.2 17.2 24.4 Permanent differences 3.1 2.7 17.5 24.9 Losses in certain jurisdictions that have not been recognised 1.6 1.4 6.5 9.2 Deferred tax credit arising from UK corporation tax rate change 5.3 4.6 4.5 6.4 Tax provision release net of associated deferred tax charge 13.7 11.8 60.0 85.2 Tax charge credit and effective rate for the year 12.6 10.9 23.3 33.1 In addition to the income tax charge credit to the Consolidated Income Statement, a tax charge of 2.3m 2012: credit of 0.4m all of which relates to deferred tax Note 30 has been recognised directly in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income during the year.
14 DIVIDENDS 2013 2012 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: Second interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 11.80p per share 71.1 First interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 6.00p per share 36.2 Second interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 12.50p per share 75.4 First interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 6.40p per share 38.6 114.0 107.3 Proposed second interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 12.50p per share 2012: 12.50p per share 75.5 75.3 As at 31 December 2013 0.1m 2012: 0.1m of dividends are still to be paid.
As at 31 December 2013 holders of 737,272 2012: 108,422 ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each have waived their rights to receive dividends.
Pursuant to the Dividend Access Plan DAP arrangements put in place in 2009 as part of the Scheme of Arrangement, shareholders in the Company are able to elect to receive their dividends from a UK source a DAP election.
Shareholders who i held 100,000 or fewer shares on the date of admission of the Companys shares to the London Stock Exchange and ii in the case of shareholders who did not own the shares at that time, on the first dividend record date after they become shareholders in the Company, unless they elect otherwise, are deemed to have elected to receive their dividends under the DAP arrangements.
Shareholders who hold more than 100,000 shares and who wish to receive their dividends from a UK source must make a DAP election.
All elections remain in force indefinitely unless revoked.
Unless shareholders have made a DAP election, or are deemed to have made a DAP election, dividends will be received directly from the Company, domiciled in Switzerland, and will be taxed accordingly.
INFORMA PLC 96 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 15 EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic The basic earnings per share calculation is based on a loss attributable to equity shareholders of the parent of 6.4m 2012: 90.7m profit.
This loss on ordinary activities after taxation is divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue less those nonvested shares held by employee share ownership trusts which is 602,421,793 2012: 602,378,791.
Diluted The diluted earnings per share calculation is based on the basic earnings per share calculation above except that the weighted average number of shares includes all potentially dilutive options granted by the reporting date as if those options had been exercised on the first day of the accounting period or the date of the grant, if later, giving a weighted average of 602,687,758 2012: 603,021,026.
The table below sets out the adjustment in respect of diluted potential ordinary shares: 1 2013 2012 Weighted average number of shares used in basic earnings per share calculation 602,421,793 602,378,791 Effect of dilutive share options 265,965 642,235 Weighted average number of shares used in diluted earnings per share calculation 602,687,758 603,021,026 1 For 2013 the effect of dilutive share options were anti-dilutive for the purpose of the dilutive earnings per share and have not been used.
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations The basic and diluted adjusted earnings per share calculations have been made to allow shareholders to gain a further understanding of the trading performance of the Group.
They are based on the basic and diluted earnings per share calculations above except that profits are based on continuing operations attributable to equity shareholders and are adjusted for items that are not perceived by management to be part of the underlying trends in the business, and the tax effect of those adjusting items, as follows: 2013 2012 m m Profit for the year 103.1 93.7 Non-controlling interest Adjusting items net of attributable taxation Note 2 138.4 136.4 Adjusted profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 241.5 230.1 Earnings per share: Adjusted basic p 40.1 38.2 Adjusted diluted p 40.1 38.2 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 16 GOODWILL m Cost At 1 January 2012 1,828.5 Additions in the year 109.0 Disposals Note 21 65.4 Exchange differences 44.7 At 1 January 2013 1,827.4 Additions in the year 57.9 1 Disposals Note 21 196.3 Exchange differences 22.8 At 31 December 2013 1,666.2 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 January 2012 63.7 Impairment losses for the year Note 2 80.0 Disposals Note 21 43.1 Exchange differences 0.3 At 1 January 2013 100.9 Impairment losses for the year Note 2 40.5 1 Disposals Note 21 77.2 Exchange differences 4.1 At 31 December 2013 68.3 Carrying amount At 31 December 2013 1,597.9 At 31 December 2012 1,726.5 1 Included in disposals for the year are assets written off with nil net book value that are not expected to generate any future economic benefits.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
The carrying amount of goodwill recorded in the major Groups of cash generating units is set out below: 2013 2012 m m Academic Publishing 354.2 356.5 Business Intelligence 831.9 837.9 Global Events 411.8 532.1 1,597.9 1,726.5 The movements in carrying amount relate primarily to acquisitions, disposals, impairment, foreign exchange movements and other internal reclassifications.
The Group assesses the impairment of Goodwill and Intangible assets annually at year end, and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
INFORMA PLC 98 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations.
The key assumptions in the value in use are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to cash flows during the period.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGUs.
The pre-tax discount rates applied are 9.5% for Academic Publishing and Business Intelligence 2012: 9.5% and 10.5% for the Global Events businesses 2012: 10.5% with the exception of the European Conferences CGU where the pre-tax discount rate has increased by 1% to 11.5% which is to reflect the challenging economic conditions in Europe.
There have been no other changes to the discount rates since the prior year, which is consistent with the fact that there have been no significant changes in the markets in which those CGUs operate.
Estimated future cash flows are determined by reference to latest budgets and forecasts for the next five years approved by management, after which a long term perpetuity growth rate is applied.
The most recent financial budgets approved by the Board of Directors have been prepared after considering the current economic environment in each of our markets.
The estimates of future cash flows are consistent with past experience adjusted for managements estimates of future performance.
Long-term average growth rates are 2% for Academic Publishing and Business Intelligence 2012: 2% and European Conferences 2012: 3%, and 3% for Global Events 2012: 3%.
The rates do not exceed the average long-term growth rate for the relevant markets.
The challenging European economic climate has impacted our European Conferences business performance during the year.
This has resulted in indicators of impairment for the European Conferences CGU, which is included in the Global Events Segment.
Updated five year projections have been produced for the CGU, which have resulted in an impairment of the carrying value of Goodwill by 40.5m.
The carrying value of Goodwill and Intangible assets in the European Conferences business was 9.2m as at 31 December 2013.
Management has undertaken sensitivity analysis taking into consideration the impact on key impairment test assumptions arising from a range of possible future trading and economic scenarios.
The scenarios have been performed separately for each CGU with the sensitivities summarised as follows: an increase in the pre-tax discount rate by 1%: a decrease of 1% of Academic Publishing and Business Intelligence and 2% for Global Events on forecast operating profits over years 25: and a decrease in the terminal growth rate by 1% for all CGUs.
The sensitivity analysis shows that applying all of the above criteria, an impairment of 1.7m would arise for European Conferences.
For the other CGUs, no impairment would result from the scenarios in our sensitivity analysis.
2 8.3m 2012: 13.8m additions to Intangible software assets and 2.7m 2012: 4.5m additions to product development represents cash paid.
3 Of the 57.7m 2012: 37.3m arising on acquisitions in the year, 10.4m 2012: 0.2m relates to prior year acquisitions.
4 Included in disposals for the year are assets written off with nil net book value that are not expected to generate any future economic benefits.
5 All product development in 2013 and 2012 are internally generated.
INFORMA PLC 100 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 Intangible software assets include a gross carrying amount of 103.7m 2012: 101.2m and accumulated amortisation of 71.2m 2012: 46.0m which relates to software that has been internally generated.
During the period intangible software assets with a net book value of 17.1m was impaired see Note 2, as the value in use generated by those assets was deemed insufficient to support the carrying value.
The Group does not have any of its other intangible assets pledged as security over bank loans.
As a consequence of reducing the contingent consideration for the recent acquisitions by 2.5m see Note 2, an impairment charge of 0.3m in Exhibitions and Conferences has also been recognised.
The re-measurement of the contingent consideration and impairment has been presented as adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Further information is disclosed in Note 2.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 101 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 18 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Cash paid on acquisition net of cash acquired 2013 2012 m m 1 Current period acquisitions EBD Group 29.2 Shanghai Baiwen Exhibitions Co. Ltd. 27.4 Other 26.5 Prior year acquisitions 2012 acquisitions: Fertecon Limited 15.3 Sagient Research Systems, Inc. 12.4 Informa Canada Inc. 32.7 Zephyr Associates, Inc. 29.1 Other 0.3 17.2 2011 acquisitions: Brazil Trade Shows Partners Participacoes S. A.
2.4 3.0 Other 0.4 2010 acquisitions: EuroMediCom SAS 3.6 CPDcast.
com Limited 0.9 Emerging Portfolio Fund Research Inc. 1.4 6.2 Other 0.1 0.7 87.3 121.5 1 These acquisitions are covered by the Current years business combinations tables in this note.
Where goodwill is provisional, a best estimate of fair value has been made but these will be reviewed and adjusted in the next year should it be necessary.
In line with the Groups strategy, a number of acquisitions were made in the year.
All acquisitions were paid for in cash including deferred and contingent consideration and in all acquisitions full control over the business has been obtained by acquiring 100% of the ordinary issued share capital, with the exception of the acquisition of Shanghai Baiwen Exhibitions Co. Ltd where 80% of the ordinary issued share capital was acquired.
INFORMA PLC 102 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 Business combinations made in 2013 EBD Group On 7 June 2013, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of EBD GmbH, EBD Group GmbH and European Business Development Group Inc. together EBD Group.
EBD Group has a portfolio of eight annual partnering events operating in the life sciences industry.
EBD Group will form part of the Global Events segment.
The net cash outflow was 29.2m comprising of cash consideration of 29.1m plus bank overdraft acquired of 0.1m.
The disclosure below provides the net liabilities assets acquired on a combined basis with the related fair value adjustments.
Book Fair value Fair value adjustments value Net liabilities assets at date of acquisition m m m Intangible assets 12.9 12.9 Trade and other receivables 1.0 1.0 Bank overdraft 0.1 0.1 Trade and other payables 1.0 1.0 Deferred income 0.7 0.7 Deferred tax liabilities 1.9 1.9 Net liabilities assets acquired 0.8 11.0 10.2 Provisional goodwill 18.9 Total consideration 29.1 Add: bank overdraft acquired 0.1 Net cash outflow 29.2 Goodwill, being the excess of the consideration over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired, represents benefits which do not qualify for recognition as intangible assets.
The fair value of the acquired identifiable assets and liabilities assumed are provisional pending receipt of final valuations.
The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition are as follows: m Software 5.5 Brand 6.9 Non-compete agreements 0.5 Total intangible assets 12.9 Acquisition related costs included in adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2013 amounted to 0.3m.
The businesses contributed 1.3m to profit after tax and 6.4m to revenue of the Group for the period between the date of acquisition and 31 December 2013.
If the acquisitions had been completed on the first day of the financial year, it would have contributed 0.7m to profit after tax and 11.1m to revenue of the Group.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 103 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 18 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED Business combinations made in 2013 continued Shanghai Baiwen Exhibitions Co. Ltd. On 27 December 2013, the Group acquired 80% of the issued share capital of Shanghai Baiwen Exhibitions Co. Ltd.
The Company operates China Beauty Expo, the largest beauty trade event in China, which comprises of three specialised shows in beauty salons and spa products: cosmetics and toiletries: and packaging, original equipment manufacturer and machinery.
The Company will form part of the Global Events segment.
The net cash outflow was 27.4m comprising of cash consideration of 37.9m less net cash acquired of 10.5m.
The disclosure below provides the net assets acquired on a combined basis with the related fair value adjustments.
Book Fair value Fair value adjustments value Net assets at date of acquisition m m m Trade and other receivables 1.7 1.7 Cash and cash equivalents 10.5 10.5 Trade and other payables 1.6 1.6 Deferred income 5.5 5.5 5.1 5.1 Non-controlling interest 1.0 1.0 Net assets acquired 4.1 4.1 Provisional goodwill 33.8 Total consideration 37.9 Less: net cash acquired 10.5 Net cash outflow 27.4 Due to the proximity of the business combination to the year end, the Group has been unable to complete a detailed valuation of the intangible and tangible assets acquired with the business.
Accordingly, the surplus of consideration over fair value of the share of net assets acquired has been allocated to goodwill at 31 December 2013.
The Group expects to complete a valuation of intangible assets, including tradename and customer relationships: and other acquired assets and liabilities in early 2014.
The value of goodwill will be adjusted by a corresponding amount for the value of intangible assets identified and the difference between the market and book values of the assets and liabilities.
Management believes that goodwill remaining after this exercise will comprise value to the Group for which the recognition of a discrete intangible asset is not permitted and will represent future growth opportunities.
The measurement of the non-controlling interest is also subject to the completion of the valuation of acquired assets and liabilities and is currently reported as 20% of the net assets acquired.
Acquisition related costs included in adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2013 amounted to 0.6m.
The business did not contribute to profit after tax and to revenue of the Group for the period between the date of acquisition and 31 December 2013.
If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, it would have contributed 4.9m to profit after tax and 8.9m to revenue of the Group.
INFORMA PLC 104 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 Other business combinations made in 2013 The Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Greengage Press Limited and Manson Publishing Limited which will form part of the Academic Publishing segment.
The Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Expert Reviews Limited, Doyle Trading Consultants LLC, Phillips McDougall Limited and AMIS Global Limited which will form part of the Business Intelligence segment.
The Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Compendium Contech Ltee and Apps World Events Limited, which will form part of the Global Events segment.
The net cash outflow was 26.5m comprising of cash consideration of 30.5m less net cash acquired of 4.0m.
Book Fair value Fair value adjustments value Net assets at date of acquisition m m m Intangible assets 34.5 34.5 Intangible software assets 0.1 0.1 Property and equipment 0.1 0.1 Inventory 0.2 0.2 Trade and other receivables 4.7 4.7 Cash and cash equivalents 4.0 4.0 Trade and other payables 2.5 2.5 Deferred income 3.8 3.8 Deferred tax liabilities 6.9 6.9 Net assets acquired 2.6 27.8 30.4 Provisional goodwill 7.1 Total consideration 37.5 Less: deferred consideration 0.5 Less: contingent consideration 6.5 Less: net cash acquired 4.0 Net cash outflow 26.5 Goodwill, being the excess of the consideration over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired, represents benefits which do not qualify for recognition as intangible assets.
Acquisition related costs included in adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2013 amounted to 0.3m.
The above acquisitions contributed 1.2m to profit after tax and 4.5m to revenue of the Group for the period between the date of acquisition and 31 December 2013.
If the above acquisitions had been completed on the first day of the financial year, they would have contributed 2.4m to profit after tax and 9.1m to revenue of the Group.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 18 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED Business combinations made in 2012 Fertecon Limited On 1 February 2012, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Fertecon Limited.
The Company is a leading provider of fertiliser commodities pricing data and market intelligence.
The Company will form part of the Business Intelligence segment.
The net cash outflow was 15.3m comprising of cash consideration of 18.6m less net cash acquired of 3.3m.
Book Fair value Fair value adjustments value Net assets at date of acquisition m m m Intangible assets 5.7 5.7 Trade and other receivables 0.6 0.6 Cash and cash equivalents 3.3 3.3 Trade and other payables 0.7 0.7 Deferred income 1.9 1.9 Deferred tax liabilities 1.3 1.3 Net assets acquired 1.3 4.4 5.7 Provisional goodwill 15.0 Total consideration 20.7 Less: contingent consideration 2.1 Less: net cash acquired 3.3 Net cash outflow 15.3 Goodwill, being the excess of the consideration over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired, represents benefits which do not qualify for recognition as intangible assets.
The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition are as follows: m Database 1.6 Customer relationships 4.1 Total intangible assets 5.7 During 2013, there was a re-measurement of the contingent consideration resulting in a decrease of 0.7m.
The resulting contingent consideration of 1.4m is payable within one year.
INFORMA PLC 106 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 Sagient Research Systems, Inc. On 31 May 2012, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Sagient Research Systems, Inc.
The Company primarily provides data and analysis to pharmaceutical and financial services companies, through its three main products, Placement Tracker, Biomed Tracker and Catalyst Tracker.
The net cash outflow was 12.4m comprising of cash consideration of 12.5m less net cash acquired of 0.1m.
Book Fair value Fair value adjustments value Net liabilities assets at date of acquisition m m m Intangible assets 3.2 3.2 Property and equipment 0.1 0.1 Deferred tax asset 1.0 1.0 Trade and other receivables 0.8 0.8 Cash and cash equivalents 0.1 0.1 Trade and other payables 0.3 0.3 Loan payable 0.3 0.3 Deferred income 1.4 1.4 Deferred tax liabilities 0.1 1.3 1.4 Net liabilities assets acquired 0.1 1.9 1.8 Provisional goodwill 12.3 Total consideration 14.1 Less: contingent consideration 1.6 Less: net cash acquired 0.1 Net cash outflow 12.4 Goodwill, being the excess of the consideration over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired, represents benefits which do not qualify for recognition as intangible assets.
The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition are as follows: m Database 1.4 Customer relationships 1.4 Non-compete agreements 0.4 Total intangible assets 3.2 During 2013, there was a re-measurement of the contingent consideration resulting in a decrease of 1.2m.
The remaining contingent consideration of 0.4m is payable within one year.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 18 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED Business combinations made in 2012 continued Informa Canada Inc. On 3 July 2012, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Informa Canada Inc..
The Company owns and operates a portfolio of annual exhibitions and conferences across Canada in the construction, real estate and furnishing industries.
The net cash outflow was 32.7m comprising of cash consideration of 34.3m less net cash acquired of 1.6m.
Book Fair value Fair value adjustments value Net liabilities assets at date of acquisition m m m Intangible assets 9.6 9.6 Property and equipment 0.4 0.4 Trade and other receivables 6.6 6.6 Cash and cash equivalents 1.6 1.6 Trade and other payables 0.7 0.7 Deferred income 8.8 8.8 Deferred tax liabilities 3.8 3.8 Net liabilities assets acquired 0.9 5.8 4.9 Provisional goodwill 29.4 Total consideration 34.3 Less: net cash acquired 1.6 Net cash outflow 32.7 Goodwill, being the excess of the consideration over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired, represents benefits which do not qualify for recognition as intangible assets.
The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition are as follows: m Trademark 3.7 Customer relationships 4.5 Non-compete agreements 1.4 Total intangible assets 9.6 INFORMA PLC 108 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 Zephyr Associates, Inc. On 1 October 2012, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Zephyr Associates, Inc.
The Company provides investment analysis software used by financial professionals worldwide.
During 2013, the final valuations for the acquired identifiable assets and liabilities for the acquisition of Zephyr Associates, Inc. were received.
As a result, the net cash outflow was 29.1m comprising of cash consideration of 29.4m less net cash acquired of 0.3m.
The disclosure below includes the final valuations of the net liabilities assets acquired on a combined basis with the related fair value adjustments.
Book Fair value Fair value adjustments value Net liabilities assets at date of acquisition m m m Intangible assets 16.7 16.7 Intangible software assets 0.4 0.4 Property and equipment 0.4 0.4 Trade and other receivables 1.1 1.1 Cash and cash equivalents 0.3 0.3 Trade and other payables 3.2 3.2 Loan payable 7.7 7.7 Deferred income 4.4 4.4 Deferred tax liabilities 2.3 6.4 8.7 Net liabilities assets acquired 15.4 10.3 5.1 Goodwill 34.5 Total consideration 29.4 Less: net cash acquired 0.3 Net cash outflow 29.1 The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition are as follows: m Database 4.7 Customer relationships 10.9 Non-compete agreements 1.1 Total intangible assets 16.7 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 18 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED Other business combinations made in 2012 The Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of ICANBUY Corp. 100% of the issued share capital of Keynote World Media Limited and its wholly owned subsidiary, Point Zero Media Limited, 100% of the issued share capital of Comsys Events Limited and 89.67% of the issued share capital of Primal Pictures Limited.
The net cash outflow was 16.0m comprising of cash consideration of 17.5m less net cash acquired of 1.5m.
Book Fair value Fair value adjustments value Net assets at date of acquisition m m m Intangible assets 11.6 11.6 Intangible software assets 0.1 0.1 Property and equipment 0.1 0.1 Trade and other receivables 1.5 1.5 Cash and cash equivalents 1.5 1.5 Deferred tax asset 0.2 0.2 Trade and other payables 0.5 0.5 Deferred income 1.4 1.4 Deferred tax liabilities 3.3 3.3 Net assets acquired 1.5 8.3 9.8 Fair value gain on non-controlling interest 1.0 Provisional goodwill 12.2 Total consideration 21.0 Less: deferred consideration 0.7 Less: contingent consideration 2.8 Less: net cash acquired 1.5 Net cash outflow 16.0 The fair value gain on non-controlling interests is the re-measurement of the Groups previous shareholding in Primal Pictures Limited on acquiring its remaining shares in 2012.
During 2012, deferred and contingent consideration of 1.2m was paid.
During 2013, deferred consideration of 0.3m was paid and there was a re-measurement of the contingent consideration resulting in a decrease of 0.4m.
The remaining deferred and contingent consideration of 1.6m is payable within one year.
INFORMA PLC 110 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 19 INTEREST IN JOINT VENTURES The principal joint ventures at 31 December 2013 are as follows: Country of Class of Share Type of incorporation shares holding Accounting Company Segment business and operation held interest year end Lloyds Maritime Information Business Business England Services Limited Intelligence information and Wales Ordinary 50% 31 December SIAL Brasil Feiras Global Event Professionais LTDA Events organisation Brazil Ordinary 49% 31 December Independent Materials Handling Global Event England Exhibitions Limited Events organisation and Wales Ordinary 50% 31 December Informa Tharawat LLC Global Conference State of Events organisation Qatar Ordinary 49% 31 December The following represent the aggregate assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the Groups joint ventures: 2013 2012 m m Non-current assets 2.7 0.1 Current assets 1.9 4.2 Non-current liabilities 2.0 Current liabilities 1.4 3.2 Income 5.9 4.6 Expenses 5.3 4.5 20 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS As a result of a deterioration in the trading performance of the Corporate Training businesses since 31 December 2012, which led to the subsequent commercial and strategic decision to exit these non-core activities, a loss for the period from discontinued operations of 109.5m has been recognised.
The loss includes 99.3m recognised on disposal being proceeds of 87.3m at fair value : less the carrying amount of the net assets and attributable goodwill see Note 21.
The disposal was completed on 30 September 2013, on which date control of these businesses passed to the acquirer.
These businesses were a separate cash generating unit and included within the Global Events reportable segment.
The results of the discontinued operation, which have been included in the Consolidated Income Statement, were as follows: 2013 2012 m m Revenue 76.2 121.9 Expenses 90.1 125.3 Loss before tax 13.9 3.4 Attributable tax credit 3.9 0.4 10.0 3.0 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations Note 21 99.3 Attributable tax charge 0.2 Loss for the period from discontinued operations 109.5 3.0 During the year, the businesses contributed 9.1m inflow 31 December 2012: 16.8m inflow to the Groups net operating cash flows, paid 2.1m 31 December 2012: 4.4m in respect of investing activities and paid nil 31 December 2012: nil in respect of financing activities.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 21 DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARY AND OTHER ASSETS Disposals made in 2013 During the year, the Group disposed of its five Corporate Training businesses: the European Conferences businesses in Spain and Italy: the trade and assets in the Superyacht Cup: and other small businesses.
A loss on disposal of 102.7m, including directly attributable costs of 11.1m, has been recognised within adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The disclosure below sets out the aggregate effect of the disposals on the Groups assets and liabilities.
Corporate Other Training businesses Total m m m Goodwill 119.1 119.1 Other intangible assets excluding intangible software assets 46.4 1.3 47.7 Intangible software assets 2.1 2.1 Property and equipment 0.9 0.1 1.0 Inventory 0.7 0.7 Trade and other receivables 25.3 1.4 26.7 Cash and cash equivalents 3.5 1.8 5.3 Deferred tax asset 0.1 0.1 0.2 Trade and other payables 13.6 1.7 15.3 Deferred income 2.6 0.8 3.4 Deferred tax liabilities 8.4 0.3 8.7 Net assets disposed 173.5 1.9 175.4 Costs directly attributable with the disposal 9.8 1.3 11.1 Cumulative foreign exchange losses reclassified from equity 3.3 0.3 3.6 Loss on disposal 99.3 3.4 102.7 Total consideration 87.3 0.1 87.4 Satisfied by: Cash and cash equivalents 60.3 0.1 60.4 Deferred consideration Note 25 27.0 27.0 Net cash inflow arising on disposal: Consideration received in cash and cash equivalents 60.3 0.1 60.4 Less: cash and cash equivalents disposed of 3.5 1.8 5.3 Less: costs directly attributable with the disposal 6.6 1.0 7.6 50.2 2.7 47.5 The loss on disposal of 99.3m for the Corporate Training businesses is included within discontinued operations see Note 20.
INFORMA PLC 112 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 Disposals made in 2012 During the year, the Group disposed of its 100% shareholdings in the Robbins Gioia business and Excellence Data Research Private Limited and its 50.1% shareholding in China Medical Data Services Limited and its wholly owned subsidiary Asia Gateway Healthcare Information Technology Beijing Co. Ltd.
The Group also disposed of its European Conferences businesses in Austria, Hungary and the Czech Republic, the business of Informa Virtual Business Communications GmbH, as well as three small Exhibitions for total consideration of 13.1m.
A loss on disposal of 27.5m, including directly attributable costs of 1.0m, has been recognised within adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement.
m Goodwill 22.3 Other intangible assets excluding intangible software assets 9.9 Property and equipment 1.7 Trade and other receivables 10.4 Cash and cash equivalents 9.1 Deferred tax asset 0.1 Trade and other payables 13.3 Deferred income 0.7 Deferred tax liabilities 1.6 Net assets disposed 37.9 Non-controlling interest 1.7 Costs directly attributable with the disposal 1.0 Loss on disposal 27.5 Total consideration 13.1 Satisfied by: Cash and cash equivalents 3.0 Deferred consideration Note 25 10.1 Net cash outflow arising on disposal: Consideration received in cash and cash equivalents 3.0 Less: cash and cash equivalents disposed of 9.1 Less: costs directly attributable with the disposal 1.0 7.1 There have been no material working capital adjustments during 2013.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 113 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 22 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Freehold Leasehold Equipment land and land and fixtures buildings buildings and fittings Total m m m m Cost At 1 January 2012 2.4 12.3 53.4 68.1 1 Additions 2.7 5.3 8.0 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.3 0.7 1.0 Disposals 1.3 11.3 12.6 Disposal of subsidiaries Note 21 1.2 4.0 5.2 Exchange differences 0.3 1.5 1.8 At 1 January 2013 2.4 12.5 42.6 57.5 1 Additions 0.9 5.0 5.9 Disposals 2.6 9.4 12.0 Disposal of subsidiaries Note 21 1.5 3.7 5.2 Exchange differences 0.2 0.6 0.8 At 31 December 2013 2.4 9.1 33.9 45.4 Depreciation At 1 January 2012 0.4 6.8 41.2 48.4 Charge for the year 1.7 5.3 7.0 Disposals 1.3 11.1 12.4 Disposal of subsidiaries Note 21 0.3 3.2 3.5 Exchange differences 0.2 1.1 1.3 At 1 January 2013 0.4 6.7 31.1 38.2 Charge for the year 1.4 5.4 6.8 Disposals 2.4 9.0 11.4 Disposal of subsidiaries Note 21 1.0 3.2 4.2 Exchange differences 0.1 0.4 0.5 At 31 December 2013 0.4 4.6 23.9 28.9 Carrying amount At 31 December 2013 2.0 4.5 10.0 16.5 At 31 December 2012 2.0 5.8 11.5 19.3 1 All the 5.9m 2012: 8.0m additions represents cash paid.
The Group does not have any of its property and equipment pledged as security over bank loans.
INFORMA PLC 114 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 23 SUBSIDIARIES The listing below shows the subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2013 which principally affected the profits or net assets of the Group.
To avoid a statement of excessive length, details of investments which are not significant have been omitted.
Country of registration and Ordinary Company incorporation Principal activity shares held Taylor & Francis Group LLC USA Publishing 100% BTS Feiras, Eventos e Editora Ltda Brazil Event organisation 100% Informa Global Markets Europe Limited England and Wales Financial information 100% Citeline Inc USA Intelligence information 100% gathering service Informa Canada Inc Canada Events and conference 100% organisation Informa Australia Pty Limited Australia Events, conference 100% organisation and publishing Informa UK Limited England and Wales Events, conference 100% organisation and publishing Datamonitor Inc USA Business information 100% IIR Exhibitions Limited England and Wales Event organisation 100% Datamonitor Pty Limited Australia Business information 100% Emerging Portfolio Funds Research Inc USA Financial information 100% EBD GmbH Switzerland Event organisation 100% Shanghai Baiwen Exhibitions.
Ltd China Event organisation 80% I. I. R. Limited England and Wales Conference organisation 100% and training Institute for International Research Inc USA Conference organisation 100% Informa Monaco S. A. M formerly known Monaco Event organisation 100% as SAM Monaco Yacht Show Informa Investment Solutions Inc USA Financial information 100% Informa Business Information Inc USA Intelligence information 100% gathering service Informa Research Services Inc USA Market research consulting 100% Datamonitor Limited England and Wales Business information 100% Informa Middle East Limited formerly known Bermuda Conferences, exhibitions 100% as Informa International Holdings Limited and training Informa IP GmbH Switzerland IP management 100% Informa Finance GmbH Switzerland Finance 100% Informa Group Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding Company 100% Informa Group plc England and Wales Holding Company 100% Informa Export Inc USA US Export sales 100% Of the above Informa plc directly owns Informa IP GmbH, Informa Export Inc, Informa Finance GmbH and Informa Group Holdings Limited, and 55% of Informa Middle East Limited formerly known as Informa International Holdings Limited.
The proportion of voting power held is the same as the proportion of ownership interest.
The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the financial statements of all entities controlled by the Company as at 31 December each year.
Refer to Note 3 for further description of the method used to account for investments in subsidiaries.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 115 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 24 INVENTORY 2013 2012 m m Raw materials 0.4 Work in progress 7.3 4.1 Finished goods and goods for resale 34.9 33.7 42.2 38.2 Write down of inventory during the year amounted to 2.7m 2012: 0.6m.
25 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2013 2012 m m Current Trade receivables 162.1 193.4 Less: provision 21.6 24.4 Trade receivable net 140.5 169.0 Other receivables 13.4 10.5 Prepayments and accrued income 27.7 31.2 Costs in advance 21.4 17.3 203.0 228.0 Non-current Other receivables 37.6 20.4 Total non-current 37.6 20.4 240.6 248.4 The average credit period taken on sales of goods is 30 days 2012: 32 days.
The Group has provision policies for its various divisions which have been determined by references to past default experience.
Other non-current receivables primarily consists of long-term receivables of 37.6m provided by the acquirers as consideration for the disposals made during the current and prior year.
The non-current receivables are repayable over the next two to ten years.
The movements in the year relate to the loan receivable arising from the disposal of Corporate Training businesses of 27.0m see Note 21, the impairment of Robbins Gioia receivable of 8.3m see Note 2 and foreign exchange movements.
The Groups exposures to credit risk and impairment losses related to trade and other receivables are disclosed in Note 32.
Under the normal course of business, the Group does not charge interest on its overdue receivables.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
INFORMA PLC 116 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 26 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2013 2012 Note m m Cash at bank and in hand 32.4 23.9 Bank overdrafts 31 0.5 0.6 Cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 31.9 23.3 Cash at bank and in hand has been presented on a net basis where the Group has legal right to set-off.
The Groups exposure to interest rate risks and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities is disclosed in Note 32.
27 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2013 2012 m m Current Deferred consideration 2.1 4.1 Trade payables 32.8 40.6 Accruals 118.5 127.4 Other payables 26.1 30.2 Total current 179.5 202.3 Non-current Deferred consideration 3.4 Other payables 3.6 3.6 Total non-current 7.0 3.6 186.5 205.9 An analysis of the maturity of debt is given in Note 32.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 42 days 2012: 37 days.
There are no suppliers who represent more than 10% of the total balance of trade payables in either 2013 or 2012.
The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit time frame.
Therefore, under the normal course of business, the Group is not charged interest on overdue payables.
28 DEFERRED INCOME 2013 2012 m m Subscriptions and event revenue received in advance 316.0 308.1 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 117 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 29 PROVISIONS Contingent Property Restructuring Other consideration leases provision provision Total m m m m m At 1 January 2012 14.8 4.1 3.5 0.2 22.6 Increase in year 6.5 2.8 10.0 0.2 19.5 Utilisation 12.1 2.9 9.4 0.1 24.5 Release 1.6 1.4 0.8 3.8 At 1 January 2013 7.6 2.6 3.3 0.3 13.8 Increase in year 11.3 1.0 25.4 3.6 41.3 Utilisation 5.4 1.0 22.4 3.1 31.9 Release 2.5 0.5 0.4 3.4 At 31 December 2013 11.0 2.1 5.9 0.8 19.8 2013 Current liabilities 5.5 0.7 5.7 0.8 12.7 Non-current liabilities 5.5 1.4 0.2 7.1 2012 Current liabilities 1.7 1.0 2.4 5.1 Non-current liabilities 5.9 1.6 0.9 0.3 8.7 The contingent consideration relates primarily to current year acquisitions Apps World Event Limited and Doyle Trading Consultants LLC and prior year acquisitions Fertecon Limited and Keynote World Media Limited.
The contingent consideration will be paid in one to three years.
The property lease provision represents the estimated excess of rent payable on surplus property leases, plus dilapidation provisions, less rent receivable via sub leases.
The property lease provisions will be fully utilised between one and five years.
As outlined in Note 2, during 2013 the Group implemented a number of restructuring and reorganisation projects.
The restructuring provision is expected to be substantially utilised by 31 December 2014.
The other provision relates to acquisition related costs and is expected to be fully utilised by 31 December 2014.
INFORMA PLC 118 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 30 DEFERRED TAX Accelerated tax Pensions Cash flow depreciation Intangibles Note 38 Other hedges Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2012 1.6 186.4 3.0 15.8 1.3 164.7 Credit debit to Other Comprehensive Income for the year 1.7 1.3 0.4 Acquisitions 12.4 0.4 12.8 Charge credit to profit or loss for the year excluding UK corporation tax rate change 1.6 10.1 0.7 0.8 7.0 Charge credit to profit or loss for the year arising from UK corporation tax rate change 0.2 5.0 0.3 4.5 Disposals 2.1 0.6 1.5 Foreign exchange movements 0.1 1.8 1.3 3.2 At 1 January 2013 0.1 179.8 4.0 15.0 160.9 Debit to Other Comprehensive Income for the year 2.2 0.1 2.3 Acquisitions 16.9 4.3 12.6 Credit charge to profit or loss for the year excluding UK corporation tax rate change 5.4 15.6 0.7 1.3 21.6 Charge credit to profit or loss for the year arising from UK corporation tax rate change 0.8 6.7 0.6 5.3 Disposals 0.1 9.3 0.7 8.5 Foreign exchange movements 6.1 0.2 5.9 At 31 December 2013 4.4 159.0 1.1 19.1 0.1 134.5 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
The following is the analysis of deferred tax balances for Consolidated Statement of Financial Position purposes: 2013 2012 m m Deferred tax liability 134.5 160.9 Deferred tax asset 134.5 160.9 The June 2010 UK Budget Statement included proposals to reduce the rate of corporation tax from 28% to 24% by 1 April 2014.
These proposals were amended in successive UK Budget Statements and again most recently in the March 2013 UK Budget which included an announcement that the main rate of corporation tax would ultimately fall to 20% by 1 April 2015.
The impact for 2012 of a prospective reduction in the UK corporation tax rate to 23%, effective from 1 April 2013, which was enacted as at 31 December 2012 was to reduce the Groups deferred tax liability by 4.3m, increase profit for the year by 4.5m and reduce other comprehensive income by 0.2m.
The Finance Act 2013 subsequently enacted prospective reductions in the UK corporation tax rate to 21% from 1 April 2014 and 20% from 1 April 2015.
The impact of this further reduction for 2013 is to reduce the Groups deferred tax liability by 4.8m, increase profit for the year by 5.3m and reduce other comprehensive income by 0.5m.
At 31 December 2013 the Group has unused tax losses of approximately 37.1m 2012: 27.2m available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset of 12.5m 2012: 8.8m has not been recognised due to the unpredictability of future taxable profit streams.
At the reporting date, the aggregate amount of withholding tax on post acquisition undistributed earnings for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was 24.6m 2012: 22.6m.
No liability has been recognised because the Group, being in a position to control the timing of the distribution of intra Group dividends, has no intention to distribute intra Group dividends in the foreseeable future that would trigger withholding tax.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 119 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 31 BORROWINGS 2013 2012 Note m m Current Bank borrowings Bank overdraft 26 0.5 0.6 Total current borrowings 0.5 0.6 Non-current Bank borrowings 371.9 377.2 Private placement loan notes 442.2 448.5 1 Total non-current borrowings 814.1 825.7 814.6 826.3 1 The non-current borrowings for current and prior year are presented net of arrangement fees.
There have been no breaches of covenants under the Groups bank facilities and private placement loan notes during the year.
The bank and private placement borrowings are guaranteed by material subsidiaries of the Group.
The Group does not have any of its property and equipment and other intangible assets pledged as security over loans.
The Group maintains the following significant lines of credit: Private placement loan notes drawn in three currency tranches of USD 597.5m, GBP 40.0m and EUR 50.0m.
As at 31 December 2013, the note maturities ranged between two and seven years, with an average duration of 5.3 years, at a weighted average interest rate of 4.3%.
625.0m 2012: 625.0m revolving credit facility, of which 373.9m has been drawn down at 31 December 2013.
Interest is payable at the rate of LIBOR plus a margin based on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
39.5m 2012: 40.2m comprising a number of bilateral bank facilities that can be drawn down to meet short-term financing needs.
Interest is payable at the local base rate plus margins that vary between 1% and 6%.
The effective interest rate as at 31 December 2013 is 3.1% 2012: 3.6%.
The Group had the following committed undrawn borrowing facilities at 31 December: 2013 2012 Expiry date m m Within one to two years In more than two years 251.1 245.1 251.1 245.1 The Groups exposure to liquidity risk is disclosed in Note 32 g. INFORMA PLC 120 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 32 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS a Financial risk management The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: Capital risk management Market risk Credit risk Liquidity risk This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, the Groups management of capital, and the Groups objectives, policies and procedures for measuring and managing risk.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Board has established a Treasury Committee which is responsible for developing and monitoring the Groups financial instrument related risk management policies.
The Treasury committee meets and reports regularly to the Audit Committee on its activities.
The Group treasury function provides services to the Groups businesses, co-ordinates access to domestic and international financial markets and monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the Group through internal risk reports which analyse exposures by degree and magnitude of risks.
These risks include market risk including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate risk.
The Treasury Committee has put in place policies that have been established to identify and analyse financial instrument related risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
These policies provide written principles on funding and investment policies, credit risk, foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk.
Compliance with policies and exposure limits is reviewed by the Treasury Committee.
This Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit, who undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders as well as sustaining the future development of the business.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Groups overall strategy remains unchanged from 2012.
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt, which includes borrowings Note 31 and cash and cash equivalents Note 26, and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital Note 33, reserves and retained earnings.
Cost of capital The Groups Treasury Committee reviews the Groups capital structure on a regular basis and as part of this review, the Committee considers the weighted average cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital.
Gearing ratio The principal financial covenant ratios under the Groups borrowing facilities are maximum net debt to EBITDA of 3.5 times and minimum EBITDA interest cover of 4.0 times, tested semi-annually.
At 31 December 2013 both financial covenants were comfortably achieved, with the ratio of net debt using average exchange rates to EBITDA of 2.2 times 2.1 times at 31 December 2012.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 121 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 32 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED b Categories of Financial instruments Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in Note 3 to the financial statements.
2013 2012 Notes m m Financial assets Loans and receivables Trade receivables 25 140.5 169.0 Other receivables 25 51.0 30.9 Cash and cash equivalents 26 32.4 23.9 Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 0.5 Total financial assets 224.4 223.8 Financial liabilities Amortised cost Bank overdraft 31 0.5 0.6 Bank borrowings 31 371.9 377.2 Private placement loan notes 31 442.2 448.5 Trade payables 27 32.8 40.6 Accruals 27 118.5 127.4 Other payables 27 29.7 33.8 Deferred consideration 27 5.5 4.1 Contingent consideration 29 11.0 7.6 Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships Total financial liabilities 1,012.1 1,039.8 c Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in the market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates, will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
The Groups activities expose it mainly to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates.
The Group enters into interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk of rising interest rates and by managing the risk of currencies of its borrowings, the Group is able to achieve a level of natural hedge of both the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position net currency assets and also the currency earnings due to the currency interest payable.
Refer to both interest rate risk and foreign currency risk in Note 32 d and e respectively.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department Group Treasury under policies approved by the Board of Directors.
The Board sets the Groups treasury policy to ensure that it has adequate financial resources to develop the Groups businesses and to manage the currency and interest risks to which the Group is exposed.
Group Treasury monitors the distribution of its cash assets, borrowings and facilities so as to control exposure to the relative performance of any particular territory, currency or institution.
The Board and the Treasury Committee provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as policies covering specific areas, such as funding, foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and investments of excess liquidity.
Risk is measured in terms of impact, inherent risk and residual risk, and takes account of managements control actions in mitigating against both external and internal risk events.
The risk model consolidates unique risk events and aggregated risk categories at both a business unit level and Group-wide, and the results are presented to the Risk Committee and the Audit Committee for discussion and review, and may drive the allocation of Internal Audit resources to provide assurance on significant risks in its annual plan.
INFORMA PLC 122 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 d Interest rate risk The Group has no significant interest-bearing assets at floating rates and is exposed to interest rate risk as entities in the Group borrow funds at both fixed and floating interest rates.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The risk is managed by the Group by maintaining an appropriate mix between fixed and floating rate borrowings by the use of interest rate swap contracts.
Hedging activities are evaluated regularly to align with interest rate views and defined risk appetite, ensuring optimal hedging strategies are applied, by either protecting the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position or protecting interest expense through different interest rate cycles.
The Groups policy is to minimise its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates by using interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges to hedge up to 90% of forecast interest payments over a period of up to five years, based on forecast net debt levels by currency during that period.
This policy provides a level of certainty of future interest costs by swapping floating to fixed interest payments which in turn assists the predictability of achieving interest-based loan covenants.
The Groups exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk section of this note.
Interest rate swap contracts The Group draws down on its bank borrowing facilities at floating rates of interest.
A portion of those are then swapped to fixed rates in line with the Group Treasury policy in order to manage its cash flow interest rate risk.
Such contracts enable the Group to convert borrowings from floating rates and swap them into fixed rates.
Under interest rate swaps, the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals primarily monthly, the difference between fixed contract rates and floating-rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional amounts.
The fair value of interest rate swaps at the reporting date is determined by discounting the future cash flows using the future interest rate curves at the reporting date and the credit risk inherent in the contract, and is disclosed below.
The average interest rate is based on the outstanding balance at the end of the financial year.
The following table details the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of interest rate swap contracts outstanding as at the reporting date: Cash flow hedges Average contracted Notional Fair fixed interest rate principal amount value 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Outstanding receive floating, pay fixed contracts % % m m m m Within one year Within one to two years 0.54 20.0 More than two years 0.69 40.0 0.5 60.0 0.5 At 31 December 2013, the fixed interest rates varied from 0.54% to 0.76%, and the main floating rates were LIBOR.
Gains or losses deferred in equity on interest rate swap contracts as of 31 December 2013 are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the same period in which the hedged item affected net profit or loss.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 123 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 32 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED d Interest rate risk continued The following table details financial liabilities by interest category: NonNonFixed Floating interest Total Fixed Floating interest Total rate rate bearing 2013 rate rate bearing 2012 m m m m m m m m Bank overdraft 0.5 0.5 0.6 0.6 Bank borrowings 60.0 311.9 371.9 377.2 377.2 Private placement loan notes 442.2 442.2 448.5 448.5 Trade payables 32.8 32.8 40.6 40.6 Accruals 118.5 118.5 127.4 127.4 Other payables 0.6 29.1 29.7 33.8 33.8 Deferred consideration 5.5 5.5 4.1 4.1 Contingent consideration 11.0 11.0 7.6 7.6 Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 502.2 313.0 196.9 1,012.1 448.5 377.8 213.5 1,039.8 Interest rate sensitivity analysis A high percentage of loans are at fixed interest rates or are designated in hedging relationships, and hence the Groups interest rate sensitivity would only be affected by the exposure to variable rate debt.
If interest rates had been 100 basis points higher or lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups profit for the year would have decreased or increased by 3.1m 2012: 3.8m.
e Foreign currency risk The Group is a business with significant net US Dollar USD and net Euro EUR transactions: hence exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise.
In the absence of any currency conversion, cash positions in USD and other trading currencies, such as the EUR would develop imbalances by growing GBP debt.
Allied to the Groups policy on the hedging of surplus foreign currency cash inflows, the Group will usually seek to finance its net investment in its principal overseas subsidiaries by borrowing in those subsidiaries functional currencies, primarily EUR and USD.
This policy has the effect of partially protecting the Groups Consolidated Statement of Financial Position from movements in those currencies to the extent that the associated net assets are hedged by the net foreign currency borrowings.
The carrying amounts of the Groups foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities at the reporting date are as follows: Assets Liabilities 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m USD 135.6 128.1 718.1 744.9 EUR 20.3 32.4 65.0 67.7 Other 41.3 40.8 47.9 58.9 197.2 201.3 831.0 871.5 The foreign currency borrowings of 600.9m 2012: 611.1m are used to hedge the Groups net investments in foreign subsidiaries.
Average rate Closing rate 2013 2012 2013 2012 USD 1.5635 1.5898 1.6510 1.6175 EUR 1.1776 1.2308 1.1997 1.2265 INFORMA PLC 124 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 Foreign currency sensitivity analysis The Group receives approximately 45% of its revenues and incurs approximately 35% of its costs in USD or currencies pegged to USD.
The Group is therefore sensitive to movements in the USD against the GBP.
Each $0.01 movement in the USD to GBP exchange rate has a circa 3.2m impact on revenue and a circa 1.4m impact on adjusted operating profits.
Offsetting this will be reductions to USD interest and USD tax liabilities.
This analysis assumes all other variables, including interest rates, remain constant.
The Group receives approximately 9% of its revenues and incurs approximately 9% of its costs in Euros.
The Group is therefore sensitive to movements in the Euro against the GBP.
Each 0.01 movement in the Euro to GBP exchange rate has a circa 0.9m impact on revenue and a circa 0.3m impact on adjusted operating profits.
Offsetting this will be reductions to Euro interest and Euro tax liabilities.
f Credit risk The Groups principal financial assets are trade and other receivables Note 25 and cash and cash equivalents, which represent the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade and other receivables.
The amounts presented in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Groups management based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment.
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited by dealing only with counterparty banks with high creditratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies such as Standard and Poors, Moodys and Fitch.
The Groups exposure and the credit ratings of its counterparties are continuously monitored and the aggregate value of transactions concluded is spread amongst approved financial institutions.
Credit exposure is controlled by counterparty limits that are reviewed and approved by the Treasury Committee regularly.
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, which is net of impairment losses, represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk.
Non-current other receivables Non-current other receivables arose from disposals made in the current and prior years as disclosed in Note 25.
The Risk Committee reviews these receivables and the credit quality of the counterparties on a regular basis.
At 31 December 2013, we have recognised an impairment charge in the Consolidated Income Statement of 8.3m as a result of the Groups assessment of the recoverability of these non-current receivables.
Trade receivables Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across diverse industries and geographical areas and the Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.
The demographics of the Groups customer base, including default risk of the industry and country in which the customers operate, has less of an influence on credit risk.
The Group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or any Group of counterparties having similar characteristics.
The Group defines counterparties as having similar characteristics if they are related entities.
Concentration of credit risk did not exceed 5% of gross monetary assets at any time during the year.
The Group establishes a provision that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables and investments when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
The main components of this provision are a specific loss component that relates to individually significant exposures, and a collective loss component established for Groups of similar assets in respect of losses that have been incurred but not yet identified.
The collective loss provision is determined by reference to past default experience.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 125 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 32 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED f Credit risk continued Before accepting any new customer, the Group uses an external credit rating system to assess the potential customers credit quality.
All customers have credit limits set by credit managers and are subject to standard terms of payment for each division.
As the events division works on a prepaid basis they are not subject to the same credit controls and they have a low bad debt history.
The Group is exposed to normal credit risk and potential losses are mitigated as the Group does not have significant exposure to any single customer.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
Ageing of trade receivables: Gross 2013 Provision 2013 Gross 2012 Provision 2012 m m m m Not past due 82.1 0.2 89.3 0.1 Past due 030 days 45.6 0.6 59.6 0.5 Past due over 31 days 34.4 10.0 44.5 14.0 Books provision see below 10.8 9.8 162.1 21.6 193.4 24.4 Trade receivables that are less than three months past due for payment are generally not considered impaired.
For trade receivables that are more than three months past due for payment, there are debtors with a carrying amount of 5.4m 2012: 5.8m which the Group has not provided for, as there has not been a significant change in the credit quality and the amounts are considered recoverable.
The Group does not hold any collateral over these balances.
A provision relating to returns on books of 10.8m 2012: 9.8m has been disclosed separately in the table above.
This provision is based on Managements best estimate of previous seasonal sales and returns trends, and is included as part of the overall provision balance.
Movement in the provision: 2013 2012 m m Balance at beginning of the year 24.4 23.6 Provision recognised 7.1 10.8 Receivables written off as uncollectible 4.1 2.5 Amounts recovered during the year 5.8 7.5 21.6 24.4 In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date.
The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large and unrelated.
Accordingly, the Directors believe that there is no further credit provision required in excess of the above amounts.
There are no customers who represent more than 10% of the total gross balance of trade receivables in both 2013 and 2012.
INFORMA PLC 126 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 g Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, though operationally it is managed by Group Treasury.
Group Treasury have built an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Groups short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking and other debt facilities and reserve borrowing facilities, by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
Included in Note 31 is a summary of additional undrawn facilities that the Group has at its disposal to further reduce liquidity risk.
Historically and for the foreseeable future the Group has been and is expected to continue to be in a net borrowing position.
The Groups policy is to fulfil its borrowing requirements by borrowing in the currencies in which it operates, principally GBP, USD and EUR: thereby providing a natural hedge against projected future surplus USD and EUR cash inflows as well as spreading the Groups interest rate profile across a number of currencies.
Liquidity and interest risk tables The following tables detail the Groups remaining contractual maturity for its financial assets and liabilities.
The table below has been drawn up based on the contractual maturities of the financial assets including interest that will be earned on those assets except where the Group anticipates that the cash flow will occur in a different period.
Less Greater Carrying Contractual than 12 25 than 1 amount cash flows 1 year years years 5 years m m m m m m 31 December 2013 Non-derivative financial assets Non-interest bearing 187.9 187.9 186.2 0.1 1.6 Variable interest rate instruments 26.0 31.6 0.2 31.0 0.2 0.2 Fixed interest rate instruments 10.0 23.7 23.7 223.9 243.2 186.4 31.1 1.8 23.9 Derivative financial assets Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 0.5 0.5 0.5 224.4 243.7 186.4 31.1 2.3 23.9 31 December 2012 Non-derivative financial assets Non-interest bearing 205.2 205.2 203.5 0.2 1.5 Fixed interest rate instruments 18.6 46.6 1.1 1.1 7.5 36.9 223.8 251.8 204.6 1.3 7.5 38.4 Derivative financial assets Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 223.8 251.8 204.6 1.3 7.5 38.4 1 Under IFRS 7 contractual cash flows are undiscounted and therefore may not agree with the carrying amounts in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 127 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 32 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED g Liquidity risk continued The following tables have been drawn up based on the earliest date on which the Group can settle its financial liabilities.
The table includes both interest and principal cash flows.
Less Greater Carrying Contractual than 12 25 than 1 amount cash flows 1 year years years 5 years 31 December 2013 m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments 313.1 315.2 197.7 117.1 0.3 0.2 Fixed interest rate instruments 502.1 608.3 19.2 79.1 254.7 255.3 Trade and other payables 180.4 180.4 177.3 3.1 Deferred consideration 5.5 5.5 2.1 2.1 1.3 Contingent consideration 11.0 11.0 5.5 3.1 2.4 1,012.1 1,120.4 401.8 204.5 258.7 255.5 Derivative financial liability Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 1,012.1 1,120.4 401.8 204.5 258.7 255.5 1 Under IFRS 7 contractual cash flows are undiscounted and therefore may not agree with the carrying amounts in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Less Greater Carrying Contractual than 12 25 than 1 amount cash flows 1 year years years 5 years 31 December 2012 m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments 377.8 380.9 380.9 Fixed interest rate instruments 448.5 576.0 19.4 19.4 265.4 271.8 Trade and other payables 201.8 201.8 198.2 3.6 Deferred consideration 4.1 4.1 4.1 Contingent consideration 7.6 7.6 1.7 5.4 0.5 1,039.8 1,170.4 604.3 28.4 265.9 271.8 Derivative financial liability Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 1,039.8 1,170.4 604.3 28.4 265.9 271.8 1 Under IFRS 7 contractual cash flows are undiscounted and therefore may not agree with the carrying amounts in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The Group draws down on its bank borrowing facilities at floating rates of interest.
A portion of those were then swapped to fixed rates in line with the Group treasury policy.
The first portion of these swaps that matures in a period greater than one year but less than two years is 20.0m 2012: nil and the final portion that matures between two and five years is 40.0m 2012: nil.
The variable interest rate on these borrowings is reset by the bank on a monthly basis and as such it is not possible to estimate the interest payable on these borrowings.
INFORMA PLC 128 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 h Fair value of financial instruments The fair value is defined as the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction between informed and willing parties and is calculated by reference to market rates discounted to current value.
The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows: the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets is determined with reference to quoted market prices: the fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities excluding derivative instruments is determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer quotes for similar instruments: and the fair value of derivative instruments is calculated using quoted prices.
Where such prices are not available, use is made of discounted cash flow analysis using the applicable yield curve for the duration of the instruments for non-optional derivatives, and option pricing models for optional derivatives.
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the financial statements approximate to their fair values due to the short maturity of the instruments or because they bear interest at rates approximate to the market.
Carrying Estimated Carrying Estimated amount fair value amount fair value 2013 2013 2012 2012 Notes m m m m Financial assets Loans and receivables Trade receivables 25 140.5 140.5 169.0 169.0 Other receivables 25 51.0 51.0 30.9 30.9 Cash and cash equivalents 26 32.4 32.4 23.9 23.9 Financial liabilities Amortised Cost Bank overdraft 31 0.5 0.5 0.6 0.6 Bank borrowings 31 371.9 371.9 377.2 377.2 Private placement loan notes 31 442.2 442.2 448.5 448.5 Trade payables 27 32.8 32.8 40.6 40.6 Accruals 27 118.5 118.5 127.4 127.4 Other payables 27 29.7 29.7 33.8 33.8 Deferred consideration 27 5.5 5.5 4.1 4.1 Contingent consideration 29 11.0 11.0 7.6 7.6 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 129 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 32 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED i Fair value measurements recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, Grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2013 2013 2013 2013 m m m m Financial assets Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 0.5 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2012 2012 2012 2012 m m m m Financial assets Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 33 SHARE CAPITAL 2013 2012 m m Authorised 202,500,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.1p each 2012: 202,500,000,000 of 0.1p each 202.5 202.5 2013 2012 m m Issued and fully paid 603,941,249 ordinary shares of 0.1p each 2012: 602,707,165 of 0.1p each 0.6 0.6 Number of shares m At 1 January 2013 602,707,165 0.6 Issued in respect of share option schemes and other entitlements 1,234,084 At 31 December 2013 603,941,249 0.6 Share options As at 31 December 2012 and 2013, there were no outstanding share options.
INFORMA PLC 130 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 34 CAPITAL AND RESERVES This note provides further explanation for the Other reserves listed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
Reserve for shares ESOP to be Merger Other Trust Hedging Translation issued reserve reserve shares reserve reserve Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2012 6.2 496.4 1,718.6 0.2 3.0 36.2 1,183.0 Change in fair value of cash flow hedges 4.3 4.3 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 42.3 42.3 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income Note 30 1.3 1.3 Total comprehensive income expense for the year 3.0 42.3 39.3 Share award expense 3.8 3.8 Own shares purchased 0.1 0.1 Transfer of vested LTIPs 4.1 4.1 At 1 January 2013 5.9 496.4 1,718.6 0.3 6.1 1,222.7 Change in fair value of cash flow hedges 0.5 0.5 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 25.0 25.0 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income Note 30 0.1 0.1 Total comprehensive income expense for the year 0.4 25.0 24.6 Share award expense 2.2 2.2 Own shares purchased 0.4 0.4 Cumulative foreign exchange losses on disposals Note 21 3.6 3.6 Transfer of vested LTIPs 4.5 0.5 4.0 At 31 December 2013 3.6 496.4 1,718.6 0.2 0.4 27.5 1,245.9 Reserve for shares to be issued This reserve relates to share options granted to employees under the employee share option plan.
Further information about sharebased payments to employees is set out in Note 10.
Merger reserve The merger reserve has not changed since 2004, when it was created from the business combination with Taylor & Francis Group plc.
Other reserve Other reserve includes the inversion accounting reserve of 1,641.8m, which was created from the new equity structure in June 2009.
It also includes a redemption reserve, which is the reserve fund into which profits are allocated for the purpose of redeeming or buying back shares in the Company.
ESOP Trust shares As at 31 December 2013 the Informa Employee Share Trust held 737,272 2012: 108,422 ordinary shares in the Company at a cost of 737 2012: 108 and a market value of 4.2m 2012: 0.5m.
712,051 shares 2012: 41,660 held by the Employee Share Trust have not been allocated to individuals and the remaining shares have been allocated to individuals in accordance with the Deferred Share Bonus Plan as set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 65.
Dividends on the shares held by the Employee Share Trust are waived.
At 31 December 2013 the Group held 0.0% 2012: 0.0% of its own called up share capital.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 131 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 34 CAPITAL AND RESERVES CONTINUED Hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Companys net investment in a foreign subsidiary.
35 NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST The Groups non-controlling interest at 31 December 2013 was composed entirely of equity interests and represents the minority shares of Agra CEAS Consulting Limited 18.2%, Bureau European fide Recherches SA 18.2%, Shanghai Baiwen Exhibitions Co. Ltd 20% and Monaco Yacht Show S. A. M 10%.
The Groups non-controlling interest at 31 December 2012 was composed entirely of equity interests and represents the minority shares of Agra CEAS Consulting Limited 18.2% and Bureau European fide Recherches SA 18.2%.
36 OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS 2013 2012 m m Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in Consolidated Income Statement for the year 20.4 22.3 At the reporting date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2013 2012 Land and Land and buildings Other buildings Other m m m m Within one year 17.5 0.6 24.5 0.8 Within two to five years 50.4 0.5 52.3 0.7 After five years 21.6 24.7 89.5 1.1 101.5 1.5 Operating lease payments on land and buildings represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its properties.
Leases are negotiated for an average term of seven years and rentals are fixed for an average of three years.
INFORMA PLC 132 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 37 NOTES TO THE CASH FLOW STATEMENT 2013 2012 Notes m m Profit before tax from continuing and discontinued operations 2.5 67.0 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property and equipment 22 6.8 7.0 Amortisation of other intangible assets 17 139.3 148.9 Share-based payment 10 2.2 3.8 Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration 2 2.5 1.6 Loss on disposal of businesses 21 102.7 27.5 Fair value gain on non-controlling interest 2 1.0 Profit on disposal of intangible software assets 0.2 Finance costs 11 29.5 41.4 Investment income 12 1.9 10.5 Impairment 2 66.2 81.3 Increase in inventories 3.8 2.6 Decrease in receivables 12.6 22.3 Decrease in payables 21.3 41.8 Cash generated by operations 332.3 341.5 Analysis of net debt At At 1 January Non-cash Exchange 31 December 2013 items Cash flow movement 2013 m m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 23.9 8.8 0.3 32.4 Bank overdraft 0.6 0.1 0.5 Cash and cash equivalents 23.3 8.9 0.3 31.9 Bank loans due in less than one year Bank loans due in more than one year 377.2 0.8 0.6 5.5 371.9 Private placement loan notes due in more than one year 448.5 0.3 6.6 442.2 802.4 1.1 9.5 11.8 782.2 Included within the cash flow movement of 9.5m is 0.6m 2012: 44.0m of repayment of borrowings and nil 2012: 80.0m of loans drawn down.
The net movement caused by non-cash items arises from arrangement fee amortisation of 1.1m 2012: 1.1m.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 133 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 38 RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES The Group operates two defined benefit pension schemes, the Informa Final Salary Scheme and the Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme the Group Schemes for all qualifying UK employees providing benefits based on final pensionable pay.
Both schemes are closed to future accrual.
Contributions are determined by a qualified actuary on the basis of triennial valuations using the projected unit method.
The defined benefit schemes are administered by a separate fund that is legally separated from the Company.
The trustees of the pension fund are required by law to act in the interest of the fund and of all relevant stakeholders in the scheme.
The trustees of the pension fund are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the fund.
On 1 March 2013 the Achieve Learning UK Pension and Benefits Scheme merged with the Informa Final Salary Scheme.
The assets and liabilities of the Achieve Learning UK Pension and Benefits Scheme were transferred at market value.
Through the Group Schemes the Company is exposed to a number of potential risks as described below: Asset volatility: the Group Schemes defined benefit obligation is calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields, however the Group Schemes invests significantly in equities.
These assets are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long term, but provide volatility and risk in the short term.
Changes in bond yields: a decrease in corporate bond yields would increase the Group Schemes defined benefit obligation, however this would be partially offset by an increase in the value of the Schemes bond holdings.
Inflation risk: a significant proportion of the Group Schemes defined benefit obligation is linked to inflation, therefore higher inflation will result in a higher defined benefit obligation subject to the appropriate caps in place.
The majority of the Group Schemes assets are either unaffected by inflation, or only loosely correlated with inflation, therefore an increase in inflation would also increase the deficit.
Life expectancy: if the Group Schemes members live longer than expected, the Group Schemes benefits will need to be paid for longer, increasing the Group Schemes defined benefit obligations.
The Trustees and the Company manage risks in the Group Schemes through the following strategies: Diversification: investments are well diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets.
Investment strategy: the Trustees are required to review their investment strategy on a regular basis.
The approximate overall duration of the Group Schemes defined benefit obligation as at 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 was 20 years.
This number can be subdivided into the duration related to: Deferred members: 22 years 2012: 23 years Retired members: 13 years 2012: 12 years Charge to operating profit The charge to operating profit for the year in respect of pensions was 8.7m 2012: 8.5m.
The net pension charge for the defined benefit schemes in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year was 0.6m 2012: 0.8m, of which nil 2012: nil was charged to operating profit.
The Group also operates defined contribution schemes, and contributions charged to the Consolidated Income Statement during the year were 8.7m 2012: 8.5m.
INFORMA PLC 134 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 Defined benefit schemes Informa Final Salary Scheme The latest full actuarial valuation of the Informa Final Salary Scheme was carried out at 31 March 2011.
An actuarial valuation was carried out for IAS 19 purposes as at 31 December 2013 by a qualified independent actuary.
The Scheme was closed to new entrants on 1 April 2000 and closed to future accrual on 1 April 2011.
The Groups contribution over the year was 4.1m.
The Employer expects to pay 2.8m to the Scheme during the accounting year beginning 1 January 2014 in respect of the deficit payments.
The assumptions which have the most significant effect on the results of the IAS 19 valuation are those relating to the discount rate and the rates of increase in salaries, price inflation and pensions.
The assumptions adopted are: 2013 2012 Discount rate 4.6% p. a.
Rate of return on investments 6.1% p. a.
Rate of price inflation pre-retirement 2.7% p. a.
Rate of increase in pensions in payment non pensioners 3.5% p. a.
Rate of increase in pensions in payment pensioners 3.5% p. a.
Rate of increase in salaries 4.1% p. a.
4.1% p. a In previous years, the rate of return on investments assumption was used to calculate the expected return on pension scheme assets charge to the Consolidated Income Statement for the following year.
Under IAS 19 amended this is based on the discount rate.
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the Informa Final Salary Scheme liabilities are set out below: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.1% Decrease increase by 1.5m Rate of price inflation pre-retirement Increase decrease by 0.25% Increase decrease by 2.6m Rate of increase in salaries Increase decrease by 0.25% Increase decrease by 0.4m Rate of mortality Increase decrease by 1 year Increase decrease by 1.7m Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme The latest full actuarial valuation of the Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme was carried out at 30 September 2011.
The Groups contribution over the year was 0.3m.
The Employer expects to pay 0.3m to the scheme during the accounting year beginning 1 January 2014 in respect of the deficit.
Rate of return on investments 5.0% p. a.
In previous years, the rate of return on investments assumption was used to calculate the expected return on pension scheme assets charge to the Consolidated Income Statement for the following year.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 135 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 38 RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES CONTINUED Defined benefit schemes continued The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme liabilities are set out below: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.1% Decrease increase by 0.4m Rate of price inflation pre-retirement Increase decrease by 0.25% Increase decrease by 0.6m Rate of increase in salaries Increase decrease by 0.25% Increase decrease by 0.1m Rate of mortality Increase decrease by 1 year Increase decrease by 0.5m Amounts recognised in respect of these defined benefit schemes are as follows: 2013 2012 m m Analysis of amount recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Actual return less expected return on scheme assets 5.2 2.8 Experience gain loss 0.4 0.4 Change in demographic actuarial assumptions 0.5 2.3 Change in financial actuarial assumptions 3.2 13.2 Actuarial gain loss 8.3 8.5 Movement in deficit during the year Deficit in Scheme at beginning of the year 17.5 12.1 Contributions 4.4 3.9 Net finance cost 0.6 0.8 Actuarial gain loss 8.3 8.5 Deficit in Scheme at end of the year 5.4 17.5 The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position in respect of the Group Schemes are as follows: 2013 2012 m m Present value of defined benefit obligations 98.7 99.3 Fair value of Scheme assets 93.3 81.8 Deficit in Scheme and liability recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 5.4 17.5 Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations are as follows: 2013 2012 m m Opening defined benefit obligation 99.3 85.8 Interest cost 4.3 4.2 Benefits paid 1.8 2.0 Actuarial gains losses 3.1 11.3 Closing defined benefit obligation 98.7 99.3 INFORMA PLC 136 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 Changes in the fair value of Scheme assets are as follows: 2013 2012 m m Opening fair value of Scheme assets 81.8 73.7 Expected return on Scheme assets 3.7 3.4 Actuarial gains 5.2 2.8 Contributions from the sponsoring companies 4.4 3.9 Benefits paid 1.8 2.0 Closing fair value of Scheme assets 93.3 81.8 The assets of the Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme are held in managed funds and cash funds operated by Zurich Assurance Limited, Legal & General Assurance Pensions Management Limited, Baring Asset Management Limited and Standard Life Investments.
The assets of the Informa Final Salary Scheme are held in managed funds and cash funds operated by Zurich Assurance Limited, BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited, Baring Asset Management Limited, Standard Life Investments and Schroder Investment Management Limited.
The fair value of the assets held and the expected rates of return assumed are as follows: Fair value at Fair value at 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 m m Equities Achieve Learning 4.9 Taylor & Francis 7.7 6.9 Informa 40.1 31.2 Bonds Achieve Learning 0.9 Taylor & Francis 7.2 6.0 Informa 8.8 7.8 Cash Achieve Learning 0.4 Taylor & Francis 2.0 3.1 Informa 6.9 4.7 Property Achieve Learning Taylor & Francis 1.3 1.2 Informa 2.3 2.1 Diversified Growth Fund Achieve Learning Taylor & Francis 2.8 2.6 Informa 14.2 10.0 93.3 81.8 All the assets listed above have a quoted market price in an active market.
The Group Schemes assets do not include any of the Groups own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group.
The actual return on plan assets was 8.9m 2012: 6.2m.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 137 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 38 RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES CONTINUED The history of the Group Schemes for the current and prior years is as follows: 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligations 98.7 99.3 85.8 83.6 74.7 Fair value of Scheme assets 93.3 81.8 73.7 73.1 63.4 Deficit in the Scheme and liability recognised in Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 5.4 17.5 12.1 10.5 11.3 Related deferred tax assets 1.1 4.0 3.0 2.8 3.1 Deficit net of deferred tax assets 4.3 13.5 9.1 7.7 8.2 Experience adjustments on Scheme liabilities: Amount m 0.4 0.4 1.3 2.2 0.5 Percentage of Scheme liabilities % 0.4 0.4 1.6 2.6 0.7 Experience adjustments on Scheme assets: Amount m 5.2 2.8 5.8 3.6 6.8 Percentage of Scheme assets % 5.6 3.5 7.8 4.9 10.7 Following the completion of the triennial valuations of the main defined benefit schemes, a revised deficit funding plan has been agreed with the trustees to eliminate the deficits in both schemes.
The contributions for the ongoing service will be nil in 2014 as both schemes are closed to future accrual of benefits.
In addition, the contributions paid towards reducing the scheme deficits will decrease from 4.4m in 2013 to 3.1m in 2014.
39 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
The transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are disclosed below.
The following transactions and arrangements are those which are considered to have had a material effect on the financial performance and position of the Group for the year.
Transactions with Directors There were no material transactions with Directors of the Company during the year, except for those relating to remuneration and shareholdings.
For the purposes of IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures, Executives below the level of the Companys Board are not regarded as related parties.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 65 and Note 9.
Transactions with joint ventures During the period the Group received revenue of 11,000 2012: 1.8m from Lloyds Maritime Information Services Limited, a joint venture.
During the period the Group received revenue of 1.1m 2012: 0.5m from SIAL Brasil Feiras Professionals LTDA, a joint venture.
During the period the Group received revenue of 1.8m 2012: nil from Independent Materials Handling Exhibitions Limited a joint venture.
Other related party disclosures At 31 December 2013, the Group has guaranteed the total pension scheme liability of 5.4m 2012: 17.5m.
40 EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING DATE There have been no significant events since the reporting date.
INFORMA PLC 138 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013
