Shareholder Information REGISTRARS Informas registrars are Computershare Investor Services Jersey Limited Computershare.
The Shareholder Helpline run by Computershare is available between Monday and Friday, 8.30 am to 5.30 pm.
The number to call is 0870 707 4040, if you are calling from outside the UK please call: 44 870 707 4040.
This helpline deals with various share related queries.
They also offer a free online service which enables you to: view and manage all of your shareholdings: register for electronic communications: buy and sell shares instantly online with the dealing service: and deal with other matters such as a change of address, transfer shares or replace a lost certificate.
You can register for the online service quickly and easily by going to www.
co. uk je and clicking on the Register button.
You will be asked for various information including the following: the Company in which you hold shares or loan notes managed by Computershare: shareholder reference: your postcode: and your current email address.
GLOBAL PAYMENTS SERVICE This service provided by Informas Registrar enables shareholders to have dividend payments paid directly into their bank account in their chosen local currency.
To view terms and register for this service, please visit www.
DIVIDEND Informa usually pays a dividend to all shareholders twice each year.
Informa operates a Dividend Access Plan which is open to all its shareholders.
Those shareholders who hold fewer than 100,000 shares are deemed to consent to receive their dividends from a UK resident Informa Company.
However if a shareholder holding over 100,000 shares wishes to do so may elect to join the Dividend Access Plan by completing an Election Form.
This form is available from Informas Registrars by calling 0870 707 4040, if you are calling from outside the UK please call: 44 870 707 4040.
If you hold over 100,000 shares and do not elect to join the Dividend Access Plan you will receive your dividends from Informa plc which is domiciled in Switzerland.
Alternatively, shareholders can elect to receive shares instead of cash from their dividend allocation through the Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
Shareholders can also arrange for dividends to be paid by mandate directly to a UK bank or building society account through the BACSTEL-IP Bankers Automated Clearing Services system.
For the benefit of shareholders resident in any of the eurozone countries, the Company offers the option to receive dividends in euros.
SHARE DEALING If shareholders wish to buy or sell any Informa shares, they can do so by calling the Companys stockbrokers, Equiniti Financial Services Limited on 0808 208 4433.
Instructions on how to deal will be provided over the phone.
The helpline is open 8.00 am to 4.30 pm UK time, Monday to Friday, except Bank Holidays.
CREST ELECTRONIC PROXY VOTING The Company will be accepting proxy votes through the CREST Electronic Proxy Voting system.
SHAREGIFT ShareGift Registered Charity no.
1052686 is an independent charity which specialises in accepting donations of small numbers of shares which are uneconomic to sell on their own.
ShareGift is particularly designed to accept unwanted shares and uses the ultimate proceeds to support a wide range of UK charities.
Over 14m has been given by ShareGift so far to over 1,700 different UK charities.
Further information about ShareGift can be found on their website, www.
ELECTRONIC SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATION As part of Informas Corporate Social Responsibility programme and in particular our ongoing commitment to reduce our environmental impact, we offer all shareholders the opportunity to elect to register for electronic communications.
For further information please visit www.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 147 COMPANY INFORMATION Shareholder Information PROTECTING YOUR INVESTMENT FROM SHARE REGISTER FRAUD Over the last few years a number of companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from brokers who target existing shareholders offering to sell what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be extremely persuasive and very persistent.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free Company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation Check that they are properly authorised by the FCA before getting involved.
Report the matter to the FCA by completing an online form at www.
Inform our Registrar on 0870 707 4040 TIPS ON PROTECTING YOUR SHAREHOLDING Ensure all your certificates are kept in a safe place or hold your shares electronically in CREST via a nominee.
Keep all correspondence from the Registrars in a safe place, or destroy correspondence by shredding it.
If you change address inform the Registrars.
If you receive a letter from the Registrars regarding a change of address and you have not recently moved, contact them immediately.
Know when the dividends are paid and consider having your dividend paid directly into your bank contact the Registrars.
If you change your bank account, inform the Registrars of the details of your new account.
Respond to any letters the Registrars send to you about this.
If you are buying or selling shares, only deal with brokers registered in the UK or in your country of residence.
ADR PROGRAMME On 1 July 2013, Informa established a Level I American Depositary Receipt ADR programme with BNY Mellon, the global leader in investment management and investment services.
Each Informa ADR represents two ordinary shares and trade on the OTC OverThe-Counter market in the U. S. under the symbol IFJPY ISIN US45672B2060.
Informas common shares continue to trade on the Premium Main Market of the London Stock Exchange LSE under the symbol INF ISIN: JE00B3WJHK45.
Investors can find information on Informas ADR on www.
com dr INFORMA PLC 148 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt & F t & Fiin na an nc ciia al S l St ta at te em me en nt ts f s fo or t r th he y e ye ea ar e r en nd fide ed 3 d 31 D 1 fide ec ce em mb be er 2 r 20 01 13 3 COMPANY INFORMATION Our Key Brands In life and business we are always trying to stay Informas reputation is built and largely known through its many leading ahead and make best use of the deluge of information market facing brands.
The listing below features just a handful of our presented to us.
The vital data or research needed offering in the various markets and countries in which we work.
may be out there at the click of a mouse or tap of a screen, but knowing where to look isnt always so easy.
ACADEMIC PUBLISHING This is where Informa plays a crucial role.
Our expertise means IBI provides market leading global news and analysis including Our Academic Publishing business, Taylor & Francis, comprises of the following implements: we can guide people through the information maze.
Because we products such as Lloyds List for the maritime industry and Routledge Psychology Press Taylor & Francis Focal Press take the time to understand our customers needs, we are able Citeline for the clinical drug trials market.
ITM delivers strategic to provide them with the specific insight and knowledge that insight on the global telecoms and broadcasting industries, Garland Science CRC Press Cogent OA enables them to make good decisions, grow their business and, based on up-to-the minute market data and primary research.
through ongoing education, stay ahead in their respective field.
IFI provides real-time news, data and analysis electronically The three divisions of Informa: Academic Publishing, Business across key financial markets 24 hours a day.
By providing Intelligence and Global Events all play a key role in this.
After business critical information Business Intelligence delivers all, insightful information is the single most valuable resource lasting advantage to companies, organisations and governments, BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE available to individuals and organisations.
enabling them to make valuable and profitable decisions in highly competitive, international markets.
Agra Europe CPD Cast EPFR iMoney Net Medtrack Scorecard Our Academic Publishing division publishes books and journals with over 93,000 titles available worldwide.
Our expertise spans a broad Our Global Events division complements the information services Bondwatch Datamonitor Expert Opinion Investment Ovum Scrip range of sectors, from architecture, civil engineering, physics and of Business Intelligence and Academic Publishing by providing Energy Citeline Fertecon Lloyds List Primal Pictures Verdict law, to energy, nursing, education and health.
We provide essential vital face-to-face networking opportunities enabling companies eBenchmarkers and world-class reference materials for academics and professionals, and individuals to develop, improve and compete.
In this global CMRO iLaw MarketLine Prime in addition to a host of handbooks and textbooks for students.
knowledge based economy, the emphasis is on being connected.
Using the latest publishing technology, we deliver Informa titles to This is where our standing as one of the worlds largest organisers customers in the format they choose.
All journals and over 50,000 of exhibitions, trade conferences and seminars comes into play.
GLOBAL EVENTS book titles are available digitally.
Informa is highly respected as an Informa produces over 3,000 events across the world every year, international publisher, with a network of offices stretching from the including The Monaco Yacht Show, Broadband World Forum and Adam Smith Conferences Russia Cityscape Dubai International Sourcing Fair Australia UK and US to the emerging markets of India, China and South Africa.
All our events allow communities to meet, share and develop ideas, profile new products and services, build Aesthetics Asia Singapore Com World Series Global Middle East Electricity Dubai Through our Business Intelligence division we offer a range of relationships, and ultimately do business.
information services including breaking news and views, proprietary Africa Electricity South Africa Construct Canada Canada One of a kind Canada data and the latest research and analysis.
The division is split into Arab Health Dubai Cross Media UK Palme China three parts: Informa Business Information IBI, Informa Telecoms and Media ITM and Informa Financial Information IFI.
Art Toronto Canada Digital TV Series UK Partnerships in Clinical Trials USA Beyond Beauty France EuroMediCom Monaco Serigrafia Brazil BioEurope Germany FanExpo - USA Super Return Series Global Essential Reads BioTech Showcase USA Fispal Brazil The Bride Show Dubai Knowledge and information in the academic market P08 Broadband World Series Global Hospital Build Dubai VitaFoods Switzerland An insight into how quality academic research plays such a key role in the knowledge economy providing the building blocks on which all businesses can develop and grow.
P10 Demand for knowledge and insight REGISTERED OFFICE ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS ADDRESS In the digital age there is no shortage of information: the real skill lies in filtering out Produced by Informa Global Support in Gubelstrasse 11 22 Grenville Street what is essential.
Find out how Informas supply of specialist, targeted data enables partnership with Accrue Fulton.
CH-6300 Zug St Helier businesses to gain competitive advantage.
Designed by Accrue Fulton Switzerland Jersey www.
com JE4 8PX The rise and rise of communities and connectivity P12 Informa House Photography by John Hyam The digital revolution increases efficiency and lowers costs for companies but the www.
com 30-32 Mortimer Street importance of face-to-face interaction is still crucial.
Discover how events and London W1W 7RE Illustrations by John Holcroft conferences fit in to this new world.
com United Kingdom Printed by Pureprint Group P14 Our fourth operating division www.
com Read about Global Support and the expertise it provides to Informas business This report is printed on Vision Superior paper.
divisions to allow them to run to their maximum potential.
Both papers contain material sourced from well-managed forests, certified in accordance with the FSC Forest Stewardship Council Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013 Annual Report 2013
