Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
General information Inmarsat plc the Company or, together with its subsidiaries, the Group is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom and domiciled in England and Wales.
The address of its registered office is 99 City Road, London EC1Y 1AX, United Kingdom.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 5.
The Companys ticker symbol on the London Stock Exchange is ISAT.
Principal accounting policies Basis of preparation The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for the years ended 31December2013 and 2012 the consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted by the European Union EU and therefore the Groups financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU International Accounting Standards IAS regulation and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except for the revaluation of certain financial assets and financial liabilities, as described later in these accounting policies.
The Group has a robust and resilient business model, strong free cash flow generation and is compliant with all covenants.
As a consequence and despite the continuing uncertain economic climate, the Directors believe that the Group is well-placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After considering current financial projections and facilities available and after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, Inmarsat plc continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financialstatements.
The Groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report which encompasses the Executive Chairmans Review, the Chief Executives Review and the Financial Review on pages 1 to 37.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 22 to 33.
In addition, notes 3, 31 and 32 to the financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its financial risk management objectives, its capital, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and its exposure to credit and liquidity risks.
Basis of accounting The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the Balance Sheet dates and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reported period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best estimate of the amounts, events or actions, the actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in note 4.
In the current year the Group adopted the amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income, which is effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2012.
The amendment requires that items within the statement of comprehensive income are analysed between those that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss and those that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss in accordance with the respective IFRS standard to which the item relates.
The financial statements have also been amended to analyse income tax on the same basis.
The amendments have been applied retrospectively, and hence the statement of comprehensive income has been re-presented to reflect the change.
In the current year the Group has applied IAS 19 Employee Benefits as revised in June 2011, which is effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The Standard changes the accounting for defined benefit schemes and termination benefits.
The most significant change relates to the accounting for changes in defined benefit obligations and scheme assets.
The amendments require the recognition of changes in defined benefit obligations and in the fair value of scheme assets when they occur: however, this does not affect the Groups financial statements as all actuarial gains and losses have always been recognised immediately by the Group.
In addition, the interest cost and expected return on scheme assets used in the previous version of the Standard are replaced with a net interest amount, which is calculated by applying a discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
The effect of the change on the Income Statement and Statement of Other Comprehensive Income for current or prior years is not material.
The Standard also introduces requirements for more extensive disclosures which have been adopted by the Group.
In addition, the following Standards and Interpretations, as adopted by the EU, are effective for the first time in the current financial year and have been adopted by the Group with no significant impact on its consolidated results or financial position: IFRS 7 amended Financial Instruments Disclosures: Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities effective for financial years beginning on or after 1January 2013 : IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement effective for financial years beginning on or after 1January 2013 : IAS 12 amended Income Taxes Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets effective for financial years beginning on or after 1January 2013: INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 79 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Principal accounting policies continued IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine effective for financial years beginning on or after 1January2013 : and Amendments resulting from the Annual Improvements 2009-2011 cycle paper issued in May 2012 effective for financial years beginning on or after 1January 2013.
At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 2009, 2010 and 2013 no stated effective date : IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2014 : IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2014 : IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2014 : IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements 2011 this standard supersedes IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2014 : IAS 28 revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 2011 this standard supersedes IAS 28 Investments in Associates effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2014 : Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 effective for financial years beginning on or after 1January 2014 : Consolidated Financial Statements, Joint Arrangements and Disclosure of Interests in Other Entitles: Transition Guidance effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2014 : IAS 32 amended Financial Instruments Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2014 : IAS 36 amended Impairment of Assets Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2014 : IAS 39 amended Financial Instruments Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2014 : IFRIC 21 Levies effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2014 : Amendments resulting from the Annual Improvements 2010-2012 cycle paper issued in December 2013 effective for financial years beginning on or after 1July 2014 : and Amendments resulting from the Annual Improvements 2011-2013 cycle paper issued in December 2013 effective for financial years beginning on or after 1July 2014.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its domestic and overseas subsidiary undertakings.
Subsidiary undertakings include all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than 50% of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
The results of subsidiary undertakings established or acquired during the period are included in the consolidated profit and loss account from the date of establishment or acquisition of control.
The results of subsidiary undertakings disposed of during the period are included until the date of disposal.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All transactions, balances, income and expenses with and between subsidiary undertakings have been eliminated on consolidation.
On the acquisition of a company or a business, fair values reflecting conditions at the date of acquisition are attributed to the identifiable separable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Where the fair value of the total consideration, both paid and deferred, exceeds the fair value of the identifiable separable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill.
Fees and similar incremental costs incurred directly in making the acquisition are recorded in the Income Statement as incurred, in line with IFRS 3.
INMARSAT PLC 80 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 Where there is a revision of the estimated fair value attributed to the assets or liabilities of an acquired subsidiary which occurs after the end of the measurement period, acquisition-related adjustments are recognised in the Income Statement.
Where the deferred consideration is payable in cash, the liability is discounted to its present value.
Where the deferred consideration is contingent upon future trading performance, an estimate of the present value of the deferred consideration payable is made.
The contingent deferred consideration is reassessed annually and any gain or loss on remeasurement is recorded in the IncomeStatement.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the non-controlling interests share of changes in equity since the date of the original combination.
Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency The functional currency of the Company and all of the Groups subsidiaries and the presentation currency of the Group is the USDollar, as the majority of operational transactions are denominated in US Dollars.
The hedged rate between US Dollar and Pound Sterling for 2013 for Inmarsat Globals Sterling operating expenditure was US$1.57 1.00 2012: US$1.48 1.00. b Transactions and balances Transactions not denominated in the functional currency of the respective subsidiary undertakings of the Group during the year have been translated using the spot rates of exchange ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Differences on exchange arising on the settlement of the transactions denominated in currencies other than the respective functional currency are recognised in the IncomeStatement.
Monetary assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency of the respective subsidiary undertaking of the Group have been translated at the spot rates of exchange ruling at the end of each month.
Differences on exchange arising from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the respective functional currency are recognised in equity to the extent that the foreign exchange exposure is hedged while the remaining differences are recognised in the Income Statement.
Financial instruments and hedging activities Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant instrument and derecognised when it ceases to be a party to such provisions.
Financial instruments are initially measured at fair value.
Subsequent measurement depends on the designation of the instrument.
Non-derivative financial assets are classified as trade receivables, other receivables, accrued income, short-term deposits or cash and cash equivalents.
They are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, subject to reduction for allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
For interest-bearing assets, their carrying value includes accrued interest receivable.
In the Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents are shown net of bank overdrafts, which are included as current borrowings in liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
Non-derivative financial liabilities are classified as borrowings, trade payables, other liabilities and accruals and stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
For borrowings, their carrying value includes accrued interest payable, as well as unamortised issue costs.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational and financing activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39 are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivatives are initially recognised and measured at fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into and subsequently measured at fair value.
The gain or loss on remeasurement is taken to the Income Statement except where the derivative is a designated cash flow hedging instrument.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to document in advance the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to demonstrate that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is reperformed at each period end to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Gains or losses on cash flow hedges that are regarded as highly effective are recognised in equity.
Where the forecast transaction results in a financial asset or liability, gains or losses previously recognised in equity are reclassified to the Income Statement in the same period as the asset or liability impacts income.
If the forecasted transaction or commitment results in future income or expenditure, gains or losses deferred in equity are transferred to the Income Statement in the same period as the underlying income or expenditure.
The ineffective portions of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument are recognised immediately in the IncomeStatement.
Where a hedge no longer meets the effectiveness criteria, any gains or losses deferred in equity are only transferred to the Income Statement when the committed or forecasted transaction is recognised in the Income Statement.
However, where the Group has applied cash flow hedge accounting for a forecasted or committed transaction that is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that has been recorded in equity is transferred to the Income Statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Income Statement.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 81 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Principal accounting policies continued Revenue recognition Mobile satellite communications services revenue results from utilisation charges that are recognised as revenue in the period during which the services are provided.
Deferred income attributable to mobile satellite communications services or subscription fees represents the unearned balances remaining from amounts received from customers pursuant to prepaid contracts.
Revenue from the sale of prepaid credit is deferred until such time as the customer uses the airtime, or the credit expires.
Mobile satellite communications services lease revenues are recorded on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract concerned, which is typically between 1 and 12 months, unless another systematic basis is deemed more appropriate.
Revenue also includes income from spectrum coordination agreements, services contracts, other communications services and income from the sale of terminals and other communication equipment.
Revenue from spectrum coordination agreements is recognised using the percentage of completion or straight-line approach depending on the underlying terms of the agreement see note 4 e. Revenue from service contracts is recognised as the service is provided.
Sales of terminals and other communication equipment are recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the purchaser.
The Group offers certain products and services as part of multiple deliverable arrangements.
Multi-deliverable arrangements are divided into separate units of accounting provided, 1 the deliverable has a standalone value to the customer if it is sold separately, and 2 the fair value of the item can be objectively and reliably determined.
Consideration for these items is measured and allocated to each separate unit based on their relative fair values and the Groups relevant revenue recognition policies are applied to them.
Employee benefits Wages, salaries, social security contributions, accumulating annual leave, bonuses and non-monetary benefits are accrued in the year in which the associated services are performed by the employees of the Group.
Termination benefits are payable whenever an employees employment is terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group recognises termination benefits when it has demonstrably committed to either terminate the employment of current employees or to provide termination benefits, as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
The Group recognises liabilities relating to defined benefit pension plans and post-employment benefits in respect of employees.
The Groups net obligations in respect of defined benefit pension plans and post-employment benefits are calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods: that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The calculations are performed by qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
All actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the present value of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets are immediately recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The Group also operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes.
Pension costs for the defined contribution schemes are charged to the Income Statement when the related employee service is rendered.
The Group issues equity-settled share options and awards to employees.
Equity-settled share option awards are measured at fair value at the date of the grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
Current tax The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the deferred income tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary deductible differences or tax loss carry forwards can be utilised.
INMARSAT PLC 82 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Research and development Research expenditure is expensed when incurred.
Development expenditure is expensed when incurred unless it meets criteria for capitalisation.
Development costs are only capitalised once the technical feasibility and commercial viability of a business case has been demonstrated and they can be measured reliably.
Capitalised development costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful economic life.
Property, plant and equipment Space segment assets Space segment assets comprise satellite construction, launch and other associated costs, including ground infrastructure.
Expenditure charged to space segment projects includes invoiced progress payments, amounts accrued appropriate to the stage of completion of contract milestones, external consultancy costs and direct internal costs.
Internal costs, comprising primarily staff costs, are only capitalised when they are directly attributable to the construction of an asset.
Progress payments are determined on milestones achieved to date together with agreed cost escalation indices.
Deferred satellite payments represent the net present value of future payments dependent on the future performance of each satellite and are recognised in space segment assets when the satellite becomes operational.
The associated liability is stated at its net present value and included within borrowings.
These space segment assets are depreciated over the life of the satellites from the date they become operational and are placed into service.
Borrowing costs attributable to the construction of assets which take a substantial period of time to get ready for intended use qualifying assets are added to the costs of those assets.
Assets in the course of construction These assets will be transferred to space segment assets and depreciated over the life of the satellites or services once they become operational and placed into service.
No depreciation has yet been charged on these assets.
Other fixed assets Other fixed assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation Depreciation is calculated to write off the historical cost less residual values, if any, of fixed assets, except land, on a straight-line basis over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
The Group selects its depreciation rates and residual values carefully and reviews them annually to take account of any changes in circumstances.
When setting useful economic lives, the principal factors the Group takes into account are the expected rate of technological developments, expected market requirements for the equipment and the intensity at which the assets are expected to be used.
Asset retirement obligations The fair value of legal obligations associated with the retirement of tangible property, plant and equipment is recognised in the financial statements in the period in which the liability is incurred.
Upon initial recognition of a liability for an asset retirement obligation, a corresponding asset retirement cost is added to the carrying amount of the related asset, which is subsequently amortised to income over the remaining useful life of the asset.
Following the initial recognition of an asset retirement obligation, the carrying amount of the liability is increased for the passage of time by applying an interest method of allocation to the liability with a corresponding accretion cost reflected in operating expenses.
Revisions to either the timing or the amount of the original estimate of undiscounted cash flows are recognised each period as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset retirement obligation.
Government grants Government grants have been received in relation to the purchase and construction of certain assets.
Government grants are deducted from the cost of the relevant assets to arrive at the carrying amount.
The grants are therefore recognised as income over the lives of the assets by way of a reduced depreciation charge.
Gains and losses on disposals of tangible and intangible assets Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing net proceeds with the carrying amount.
These are included in the IncomeStatement.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 83 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Principal accounting policies continued Intangible assets Intangible assets comprise goodwill, patents, trademarks, software, terminal development and network access costs, spectrum rights, orbital slots and licences, customer relationships and intellectual property.
Intangible assets arise from separate purchases and acquisitions as part of business combinations.
In addition, internally-generated intangible assets are recognised only if all the following conditions are met: an asset is created that can be identified: it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: and the development cost of the asset can be reliably measured.
Development costs directly relating to the development of new services are capitalised as intangible assets once a business case has been demonstrated as to technical feasibility and commercial viability.
Intangible assets with a finite useful life are amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the asset and the amortisation period and method are reviewed each financial year.
Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are reviewed annually for impairment.
Impairment of non-financial assets At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of assets that are subject to amortisation and depreciation to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, an impairment review is conducted.
Intangible assets with an indefinite life are tested for impairment at least annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Impairment testing involves a comparison of the carrying amount of the asset with its recoverable amount, which is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit CGU to which the asset belongs.
Fair value less costs to sell is calculated by reference to the amount at which the asset could be disposed of.
Value in use is calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows obtainable as a result of the assets continued use, including those resulting from its ultimate disposal, at a market-based discount rate on a pre-tax basis.
CGUs are identified as groups of assets, liabilities and associated goodwill that generate cash flows that are largely independent of other cash flow streams.
The assets and liabilities include those directly involved in generating the cash flows and an appropriate proportion of corporate assets.
An impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
The carrying amount will only be increased where an impairment loss recognised in a previous period for an asset other than goodwill either no longer exists or has decreased, up to the amount that it would have been had the original impairment not occurred.
Any impairment to goodwill recognised in a previous period is not reversed.
Investments Investments in equity instruments that do not have quoted market prices in active markets are recorded at cost.
Investments are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are stated at their nominal value and reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in other operating costs when there is objective evidence that trade receivables are impaired.
Larger accounts are specifically reviewed to assess the customers ability to make payments.
Leases Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases by the lessee.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of thelease.
INMARSAT PLC 84 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale When the carrying value of non-current assets and disposal groups will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing usage, they are classified as held for sale.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Assets held for sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Disposal groups are groups of assets and liabilities to be disposed of together as a group in a single transaction.
They are recognised as held for sale at the reporting date and are separately disclosed as current assets and liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
Any amortisation or depreciation ceases when an asset is classified as held for sale.
Measurement differences arising between the carrying amount and fair value less cost of disposal are treated as impairment charges and separately disclosed.
Interest and finance costs Interest on borrowings and other financial liabilities is recognised in the Income Statement using the effective interest method.
The finance costs recognised in respect of the convertible borrowings includes the accretion of the liability component to the amount that will be payable on redemption.
Borrowing costs attributable to qualifying assets are subsequently added to the costs of those assets.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost determined by the weighted average cost method and net realisable value.
Allowances for obsolescence are recognised in other operating costs when there is objective evidence that inventory is obsolete.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents, measured at fair value, include cash in hand, deposits held on call with banks and other short-term highly-liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown as current liabilities within borrowings on the Balance Sheet.
Provisions Provisions, other than in respect of pension and post-employment benefits, are recognised when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to transfer economic benefits arising from past events and the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably.
Provisions are not recognised unless the outflow of economic benefits to settle the obligation is more likely than not to occur.
Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognised as proceeds received, net of transaction and arrangement costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Transaction and arrangement costs of borrowings and the difference between the proceeds and the redemption value are recognised in the Income Statement over the life of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12months after the Balance Sheet date.
Convertible Bonds Convertible Bonds that can be converted into share capital at the option of the holder are considered and accounted for as compound financial instruments, consisting of a liability component and an equity component in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for a similar non-convertible debt instrument.
The embedded call and put options, since they are closely linked to the underlying instrument, are valued and recognised as part of the liability.
The total liability is recognised on an amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bonds.
The equity component initially brought to account is determined by deducting the amount of the liability component from the fair value of the compound instrument as a whole and represents the option for the holder to convert the bonds into equity of the company.
This conversion option is recognised and included directly in equity and is not subsequently remeasured.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components based on their respective carrying amounts at the date of issue.
On conversion, the liability is reclassified to equity and no gain or loss is recognised in the Income Statement.
Where the convertible borrowing is redeemed early or repurchased in a way that does not alter the original conversion privileges, the consideration paid is allocated to the liability and equity components.
The consideration relating to the equity component is recognised in equity and the amount of gain or loss relating to the liability element is recognised in the Income Statement.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA EBITDA is a non-GAAP performance measure used by analysts and investors, and is defined as profit before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation, loss on disposal of assets, acquisition-related adjustments, impairment losses and share of profit ofassociates.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 85 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Groups operations and significant debt financing expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in debt market prices, foreign currency exchange rates, credit risks, liquidity risks and interest rates.
The Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group by using forward exchange contracts to limit exposure to foreign currency risk and interest rate swaps to reduce the impact of fluctuating interest rates on its floating rate long-termdebt.
The Board of Directors has delegated to a subcommittee, the Treasury Review Committee, the responsibility for setting the financial risk management policies applied by the Group.
The policies are implemented by the treasury department which receives regular reports from the operating companies to enable prompt identification of financial risks so that appropriate actions may be taken.
The treasury department has a policy and procedures manual that sets out specific guidelines for managing foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and credit risk see note 32.
The management of the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes.
a Market risk i Foreign exchange risk The functional currency of Inmarsat plc is the US Dollar.
The vast majority of the Groups long-term borrowings are denominated in USDollars, the majority of its revenue is earned in US Dollars and the vast majority of capital expenditure is denominated in US Dollars, which are therefore not subject to risks associated with fluctuating foreign currency rates of exchange.
However, approximately 50% 2012: 50% of Inmarsat Globals operating costs are denominated in Pounds Sterling.
Inmarsat Solutions operates internationally, resulting in approximately 8% and 16% of revenue and expenditure, respectively, being denominated in currencies other than the US Dollar.
The Groups exposures therefore need to be carefully managed to avoid variability in future cash flows and earnings caused by volatile foreign exchange rates.
The foreign currency hedging policy of the Group is to economically hedge a minimum of 50% of anticipated foreign currency exposure in operating expenses for the next 12 months and up to a maximum of 100% for the next three years on a rolling basis.
As at 31December2013 it is estimated that: A hypothetical 1% inflation of the hedged US Dollar Sterling exchange rate US$1.57 1.00 to US$1.59 1.00 would have decreased the 2013 profit before tax by approximately US$1.0m 2012: US$0.9m : A hypothetical 1% inflation of the US Dollar Sterling foreign currency spot rate at 31December2013 would have reduced the 2013 profit before tax by approximately US$nil 2012: US$0.2m, primarily as a result of the translation of Sterling denominated monetary assets and liabilities.
This analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts the translation of these items at the period end for a 1% change in foreign currency rates: and A hypothetical 1% deflation in the US Dollar Sterling and a 1% deflation in the US Dollar Euro foreign currency spot rates at 31December2013 would have decreased equity by US$1.6m and US$0.1m, respectively 2012: US$1.0m and US$0.6m, respectively, primarily as a result of the changes in fair value of derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges.
Management believes that a 1% sensitivity rate provides a reasonable basis upon which to assess expected changes in foreign exchangerates.
ii Price risk The Group is not exposed to significant equity securities price risk or commodity price risk.
b Interest rate risk Given the Group has no significant interest-bearing assets except cash and cash equivalents and non-current other receivables, income and operating cash flows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates.
Interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
The EIB Facility is at a variable rate whilst the Senior Notes due 2017, the Convertible Bonds and the Ex-Im Facility are at fixed rates.
The policy of the Group is to ensure certainty of the interest charge by fixing interest rates on 60%100% of forecast net debt for the next two years on a rolling basis.
As required, the Group manages its cash flow interest rate risk by using floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps.
Such interest rate swaps, when required, have the economic effect of converting borrowings from floating rates to fixed rates.
Under the interest rate swaps the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, at specific intervals primarily quarterly, the difference between fixed contract rates and floating-rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional amounts.
INMARSAT PLC 86 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 As at 31December2013, if interest rates on net borrowings changed by 1%, with all other variables held constant, the Groups profit after tax for the year would have been impacted by US$2.2m 2012: US$2.7m.
This is primarily due to the Groups exposure to movements on interest rates on its variable rate borrowings and cash and cash equivalents.
The sensitivity analysis has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the liability outstanding at each balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
Management believes that a 1% sensitivity rate provides a reasonable basis upon which to assess expected changes in interest rates.
c Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Group to a concentration of credit risk consist of cash and cash equivalents, short-term deposits, trade receivables, other receivables, accrued income and derivative financial instruments.
The credit risk on liquid funds cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are highly rated .
The maximum exposure to credit risk is: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions Note 2013 2012 Cash and cash equivalents 16 144.3 332.1 Trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income 17 239.2 262.6 Derivative financial instruments 32 12.8 6.4 Total credit risk 396.3 601.1 The Groups average age of trade receivables as at 31December2013 excluding the impact of LightSquared was approximately 57 days as at 31December2012: 58 days.
At 31 December 2013, US$127.7m 2012: US$156.5m of trade receivables were not yet due for payment.
No interest is charged on trade receivables until the receivables become overdue for payment.
Thereafter, interest may be charged at varying rates depending on the terms of the individual agreements.
The Group has credit evaluation, approval and monitoring processes intended to mitigate potential credit risks, and utilises both internal and third party collection processes for overdue accounts.
The Group maintains provisions for potential credit losses that are assessed on an ongoing basis.
The following table sets out the Groups provision for uncollectable trade receivables: US$ in millions 2013 2012 As at 1 January: 12.2 6.7 Charged to the provision in respect of the current year 0.8 6.8 Utilised in the year 2.0 1.1 Provision released in the year 0.5 0.2 a As at 31 December 10.5 12.2 a T he maturity of the Groups provision for uncollectable trade receivables for the year ended 31December 2013 is US$0.4m current, US$1.1m between 1 and 30 days overdue, US$2.1m between 31 and 120 days overdue and US$6.9m over 120 days overdue 2012: US$0.7m, US$1.5m, US$5.2m and US$4.8m, respectively.
For 2013, one 2012: one distribution partner, which is reported in the Inmarsat Global segment, comprised approximately 15.2% 2012:16.2% of the Groups total revenues.
This same customer comprised 25.6% 2012: 19.7% of the Groups trade receivables balance as at 31December2013.
No other customer accounted for 10% or more of the Groups revenue for 2013 or 2012, or for 10% of the Groups accounts receivable as at 31December2013 or 31 December 2012.
The following table sets out the maturity of the Groups trade receivables that are past due, net of provisions for uncollectable trade receivables and revenue adjustments: US$ in millions Note 2013 2012 Between 1 and 30 days overdue 28.4 30.6 Between 31 and 120 days overdue 30.7 12.1 Over 120 days overdue 8.1 2.4 As at 31 December 17 67.2 45.1 INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 87 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Financial risk management continued d Liquidity risk The Group is exposed to liquidity risk with respect to its contractual obligations and financial liabilities.
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and short-term deposits and the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities.
The Group manages liquidity risk by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
The following table sets out total available liquidity of the Group: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions Note 2013 2012 Cash and cash equivalents 16 144.3 332.1 a Available but undrawn borrowing facilities 19 906.5 1,052.4 Total available liquidity 1,050.8 1,384.5 a Relates to the Senior Credit Facility and Ex-Im Bank Facility see note 19.
The Directors believe the Groups liquidity position is more than sufficient to meet its needs for the foreseeable future.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet dates and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reported period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The more significant estimates are discussed below: a Estimated impairment of goodwill The Group annually undertakes tests to determine whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated in note 2.
The carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible assets are given in note 14.
For the purpose of testing for impairment, goodwill is specifically allocated to one of four CGUs which have been identified, which are Inmarsat Global, Stratos, Segovia and Ship Equip.
It has been determined that goodwill that arose on the acquisition of Inmarsat Ventures Limited represented goodwill of the Inmarsat Global CGU only.
Goodwill that arose on the acquisition of Stratos, Segovia and Ship Equip has been allocated to the Stratos, Segovia and Ship Equip CGUs, respectively.
As at 31December2013, the carrying amount of goodwill allocated to the Inmarsat Global CGU was US$407.4m 2012: US$406.2m.
At 31 December 2013, goodwill previously allocated to the Stratos, Segovia and Ship Equip CGUs has been fully impaired goodwill allocated to the CGUs as at 31 December 2012 was US$76.8m, US$34.2m and US$33.5m, respectively.
Goodwill is tested for impairment by comparing the carrying amount of the CGU with its recoverable amount.
The key assumptions used in calculating the value in use are as follows: Recoverable amount The recoverable amount of each CGU is based on the value in use, which is determined using cash flow projections derived from financial plans approved by management covering a five-year period.
They reflect managements expectations of revenue, EBITDA growth, capital expenditure, working capital and operating cash flows, based on past experience and future expectations of business performance.
Cash flows beyond the five-year period have been extrapolated using perpetuity growth rates.
Growth rates Long-term growth rates of between 2.5%3.0% 2012: 2.5%3.0% have been applied to extrapolate the cash flows into perpetuity.
The growth rates have been determined using long-term historical growth rates of the CGU and managements conservative expectation of future growth.
Discount rates The pre-tax rates used to discount the cash flow projections in respect of the Group for 2013 were between 9.18%12.14% 2012:9.76%12.72%.
The discount rates reflect the time value of money and are derived from the Groups weighted average cost of capital, adjusted for the risk associated with each individual CGU.
INMARSAT PLC 88 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 Goodwill impairment An impairment charge of US$144.5m in respect of goodwill was recorded in the year ended 31December 2013 2012: US$94.7m.
This loss related to the impairment of goodwill originally recognised by the Group on the acquisition of the Stratos, Segovia and Ship Equip businesses impairment of US$76.8m, US$34.2m and US$33.5m, respectively.
During the year, US$9.4m of goodwill impairment losses were recognised in relation to a correction made to depreciation in 2013 relating to prior periods in the Inmarsat Solutions segment.
This resulted in the carrying value of the Stratos CGU being increased above the estimated recoverable amount of the Stratos CGU at 31December 2012 and therefore a further impairment charge was recognised based on the revised carrying amount of the CGU at 31December 2012.
In addition, a further US$5.9m of goodwill impairment losses were recognised in relation to the Stratos CGU following an impairment review conducted prior to reclassification of certain assets as held for sale during 2013 see note 33.
Following the annual impairment reviews, impairment losses of US$129.2m were recognised to write off goodwill in the Stratos, Segovia and Ship Equip CGUs.
In the Segovia CGU the Group is continuing to see pressure as a result of ongoing spending controls being implemented by the US Government and by a related increase in competition.
Accordingly, the Group has experienced a significant reduction in revenue and margins.
In the Stratos and Ship Equip CGUs the impairment losses are due to further changes arising from the Groups vertical market reorganisation and its preparations for the introduction of Global Xpress GX services.
In particular, in the Stratos CGU, the promotion of certain significant customers as distribution partners of Inmarsat Global for GX has significantly reduced forecast revenues and margins in the Stratos CGU, while having no impact on the outlook for the Group as a whole.
The Stratos CGU has also faced a decline in demand for certain VSAT products and MSS equipment sales during the year.
This, in combination with the faster than expected migration of older services to newer services which typically have a lower price of equivalent services than on the terminal being replaced, has led to operating profit forecasts for these products being reduced.
In the Ship Equip CGU, in line with the Groups strategic plan, growth in operating profits is expected to slow as Ship Equips customer base moves from higher margin VSAT services to GX services.
A long-term growth rate of 2.5% was applied to extrapolate the Stratos, Segovia and Ship Equip CGU cash flow projections into perpetuity and a pre-tax discount rate of 12.14% was used to discount the cash flow projections.
For the year ended 31 December 2012, a goodwill impairment charge of US$94.7m was recognised in respect of the Stratos and Ship Equip CGUs.
This related to the partial impairment of the goodwill that was originally recognised when the Group acquired the businesses impairment of US$58.7m and US$36.0m, respectively.
For the year ended 31 December 2012, operating profit forecasts for the Stratos and Ship Equip CGUs were adjusted downwards due to both internal and external factors.
Internally, the Group had made certain business decisions during the year which were expected to affect the future profitability of each CGU, but with offsetting benefits elsewhere in the Inmarsat Group.
In relation to the Stratos CGU, the Group had appointed a number of significant service providers as distribution partners of the Inmarsat Global segment for GX, therefore redirecting future revenues to the Inmarsat Global segment that would previously have been forecast as received in the Stratos CGU.
In addition, certain revenue development plans for value-added services transitioned and were now expected to be progressed within the Inmarsat Global segment and therefore not contribute to the Stratos CGU.
For the Ship Equip CGU, the Group had intended for Ship Equip to become a Value-Added Reseller for GX, which carries lower margins at the CGU level than its historic standalone VSAT business.
Externally, management considered two further factors in its CGU forecasts.
Firstly, the Group had seen delays in purchase decision-making for maritime VSAT systems, impacting the Ship Equip CGU.
Management believed these delays were due to ship operators preferring to wait for the launch of the Groups GX services in order to compare GX to existing VSAT alternatives.
Secondly, for the Stratos CGU there had been a decline in demand for certain products throughout 2012 resulting from reduced military activities in Afghanistan and reduced event-driven traffic and termination of some lease business.
The combination of these factors was expected to result in reduced operating profits at the Inmarsat Solutions level and was therefore reflected in the revised forecasts, which gave rise to the impairment of the Stratos and Ship Equip CGUs.
For the year ended 31 December 2012, a long-term growth rate of 2.5% was applied to extrapolate the Stratos and Ship Equip CGU cash flow projections into perpetuity and a pre-tax discount rate of 12.72% was used to discount the cash flow projections.
In Group terms, for both 2013 and 2012, some of the factors that gave rise to the impairment at the Inmarsat Solutions level have an offsetting positive benefit at the Inmarsat Global level and are not expected to give rise to an equivalent gross impact at the Group level.
In addition, management remains confident that, at a Group level, legacy Stratos, Segovia and Ship Equip continue to deliver material value, directly or indirectly, to the Groups core wholesale business in accordance with the Groups strategy.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 89 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies continued b Other significant impairment losses Following the 2013 goodwill impairment review, US$17.8m of impairment losses were recognised in relation to customer relationships attributed to the Segovia CGU.
This was to ensure that the estimated value in use of the CGU was reflected in the financial statement for the year ended 31 December 2013.
In addition, in the year ended 31 December 2013, tangible fixed assets were impaired by US$20.5m and other intangible assets excluding goodwill were impaired by US$1.1m, following an adjustment to the carrying value of the retail energy assets being disposed of in the RigNet transaction to write them down to their fair value less costs to sell prior to their classification as held for sale assets.
c Pension arrangements and post-employment benefits assumptions The weighted average discount rate used to calculate the pension and post-employment benefits liabilities was 4.72% 2012: 4.60% seenote 28. d Income tax The Groups income tax balance is the sum of the total current and deferred tax balances.
The calculation of this and of the Groups potential liabilities or assets necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority, or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
Issues can, and often do, take a number of years to resolve.
The amounts recognised or disclosed are derived from the Groups best estimation and judgement.
However, the inherent uncertainty regarding the outcome of these means eventual realisation could differ from the accounting estimates and therefore impact the Groups results and cash flows.
A contingent liability has been disclosed for the year ended 31 December 2013 in respect of financing arrangements which were entered into in prior periods see note 35. e Revenue in respect of the LightSquared Cooperation Agreement In December 2007, Inmarsat and LightSquared LP, Skyterra Canada Inc. and LightSquared Inc. together LightSquared entered into a Cooperation Agreement for the efficient use of L-band spectrum over North America.
The Cooperation Agreement was segregated into phases and designed to enable and support the deployment of an ATC network by LightSquared in North America.
To date total payments of US$546.4m have been received under the Cooperation Agreement during 2013 no payments were received.
The Group has, thus far, recognised US$293.8m of revenue and US$23.2m of operating costs under all phases of the agreement.
For the year ended 31 December 2013, the Group recognised US$12.3m of revenue and US$3.3m of operating costs, in respect of all phases year ended 31December 2012: US$60.2m and US$8.3m, respectively.
In April 2012, Inmarsat and LightSquared reached an agreement to suspend the Cooperation Agreement until 31 March 2014.
The period of suspension was designed to allow LightSquared time to secure certain regulatory consents and, during this period, LightSquared is not required to make any payments to Inmarsat.
On 1 April 2014, or any earlier date as may be required or elected by LightSquared, payments under the agreement will recommence from that date based on a restructured payment plan that will be dependent on certain future outcomes with regard to deployment of the LightSquared ATC network.
In connection with the Groups accounting for different phases of the Cooperation Agreement, the accounting method considered most appropriate to the individual phase, including the percentage of completion method and straight line method in the case of both revenues and costs has been used.
Where the percentage of completion method was used, we have had to measure the number of man-hours undertaken against an estimate of the total man-hours required to complete the phase or activity.
Similarly, we have measured costs incurred against an estimate of the total costs required to complete the phase or activity.
The key area of estimation uncertainty relates to the Directors estimates of the total time costs that will be incurred and the Directors estimate of the percentage of completion of the time and costs that the Group has incurred.
f Provision for uncollectable trade receivables As a result of uncertainties inherent in business activities, the Group estimates its required provision for uncollectable trade receivables at the end of each period.
The estimate is based on the Groups judgement based on the latest available information: the Groups provision for uncollectable trade receivables at 31 December 2013 is US$10.5m 2012: US$12.2m.
g Capitalisation of space segment assets and associated borrowing costs The key judgements involved in the capitalisation of space segment assets and associated borrowings costs are: Whether the capitalisation criteria of the underlying IFRSs have been met: Whether an asset is ready for use and as a result further capitalisation of costs should cease and depreciation should commence:and Whether an asset is deemed to be substantially complete and as a result capitalisation of borrowing costs should cease.
INMARSAT PLC 90 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 5.
Segmental information IFRS 8, Operating Segments, requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM to allocate resources and assess performance.
The CODM of Inmarsat plc is the Chief Executive Officer who is responsible for assessing the performance of the individual segments.
Information reported to the CODM for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance is specifically focused on the individual performance of each of the divisions within the Group, namely Inmarsat Global and Inmarsat Solutions.
The Groups reportable segments are therefore as follows: Inmarsat Global principally the supply of wholesale airtime, equipment and services to distribution partners and other wholesale partners of mobile satellite communications by the Inmarsat Global business, including entering into spectrum coordination agreements.
The segment also includes income from technical support to other operators, the provision of conference facilities and leasing surplus office space to external organisations, all of which are not material on a standalone basis and in aggregate: Inmarsat Solutions the supply of advanced mobile and fixed-site remote telecommunications services, the provision of customised turnkey remote telecommunications solutions, value-added services, equipment and engineering services to service providers and end-users: and Unallocated includes Group borrowings and the related interest expense, cash and cash equivalents and current and deferred tax balances, which are not allocated to each segment.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in note 2.
Segment profit represents the profit earned by each segment without allocation of investment revenue, finance costs and income tax expense.
Business segments: 2013 Inmarsat Inmarsat Eliminations and a US$ in millions Global Solutions Unallocated remeasurements Total Revenue External sales 514.3 749.3 1.7 1,261.9 Inter-segment 292.7 16.2 308.9 Total revenue 807.0 765.5 310.6 1,261.9 EBITDA 571.3 77.2 0.3 648.8 Segment result operating profit before operating profit from LightSquared and impairment losses 409.1 5.2 0.3 414.6 Operating profit from LightSquared 9.0 9.0 Impairment losses 1.3 197.4 13.5 185.2 Segment result operating profit loss 416.8 192.2 13.8 238.4 Net interest charged to the Income Statement 49.3 49.3 Profit before income tax 189.1 Income tax expense 86.5 Profit for the year 102.6 b Capital expenditure 579.8 123.7 46.9 656.6 Depreciation 135.4 29.8 165.2 Amortisation of intangible assets 22.4 44.4 66.8 a Includes TC Communications Pty Ltd TC Comms from 8May 2013 see note 29. b Capital expenditure stated using accruals basis.
The intercompany elimination primarily relates to intersegmental asset sales.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 91 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
Segmental information continued 2012 Inmarsat Inmarsat Eliminations and a US$ in millions Global Solutions Unallocated remeasurements Total Revenue External sales 540.7 797.1 1,337.8 Inter-segment 295.2 13.2 308.4 Total revenue 835.9 810.3 308.4 1,337.8 EBITDA 597.3 97.1 0.3 694.7 Segment result operating profit before operating profit from LightSquared and impairment losses 387.3 1.6 0.3 389.2 Operating profit from LightSquared 51.9 51.9 Impairment losses 94.7 94.7 Segment result operating profit loss 439.2 93.1 0.3 346.4 Net interest charged to the Income Statement 52.8 52.8 Profit before income tax 293.6 Income tax expense 76.2 Profit for the year 217.4 b Capital expenditure 433.6 56.3 0.1 489.8 Depreciation 138.8 49.5 188.3 Amortisation of intangible assets 19.3 47.6 66.9 a Includes NewWave Broadband Limited NewWave from 13 January 2012 see note 29. b Capital expenditure stated using accruals basis.
Geographical segments: The Group mainly operates in the geographic areas shown in the table below.
The home country of the Group is the United Kingdom, with its head office and central operations located in London.
Revenues are allocated to countries based on the billing address of the customer.
For Inmarsat Global this is the distribution partner who receives the invoice for the service, and for Inmarsat Solutions this is the billing address of the customer for whom the service isprovided.
Assets and capital expenditure are allocated based on the physical location of the assets.
2013 2012 Non-current Non-current segment segment a a US$ in millions Revenue assets Revenue assets United Kingdom 94.4 774.5 90.2 1,085.7 Rest of Europe 424.3 266.1 408.9 582.4 North America 438.5 1,006.1 547.5 827.0 Asia and Pacific 254.7 32.9 243.2 14.7 Rest of the world 50.0 0.1 48.0 b Unallocated 1,272.9 589.3 1,261.9 3,352.6 1,337.8 3,099.1 a In line with IFRS 8, Operating Segments, non-current segment assets exclude derivative financial instruments.
b Unallocated items relate to satellites which are in orbit.
INMARSAT PLC 92 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 6.
Profit before income tax Costs are presented by the nature of the expense to the Group.
Network and satellite operations costs comprise costs to third parties for network service contracts, operating lease rentals and services.
A further breakdown of employee benefit costs is given in note 7.
Profit before income tax is stated after charging the following items: US$ in millions Note 2013 2012 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13 165.2 188.3 Amortisation of intangible assets 14 66.8 66.9 Impairment of goodwill 4 144.5 94.7 Impairment of customer relationships 14 18.1 Impairment of software 14 0.8 Impairment of services, equipment, fixtures and fittings 13 20.5 Impairment of non-current other receivables 1.3 Operating lease rentals Land and buildings 20.2 19.2 Services equipment, fixtures and fittings 1.5 1.3 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 67.0 79.4 Research and development costs expensed 14.4 12.8 The analysis of the Auditors remuneration is as follows: US$ in millions 2013 2012 Fees payable to the Companys Auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.2 0.2 Fees payable to the Companys Auditor for other services to the Group: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 1.1 1.0 Total audit fees 1.3 1.2 Audit-related fees payable to the Companys Auditor for other services to the Group: Audit-related assurance services 0.3 0.2 Total audit and audit-related fees payable 1.6 1.4 Other fees payable to the Companys Auditor for other services to the Group: Tax compliance services 0.2 0.2 Tax advisory services 0.7 1.3 a Other services 0.4 0.2 Total other fees payable 1.3 1.7 Total Auditors remuneration 2.9 3.1 a Other services in 2013 relate to system implementation costs which have subsequently been capitalised on the Balance Sheet.
In addition to the fees disclosed above, Inmarsat Globals pension plan incurred audit fees from the Groups Auditor of US$19,626 for the 2013 financial year 2012: US$22,876.
At 31December2013 Inmarsat Global had contractually committed to US$0.2m of services to be completed in the 2014 financial year 31December 2012: US$0.3m for services to be completed in the 2013 financial year.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 93 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 7.
Employee benefit costs including the Executive Directors US$ in millions Note 2013 2012 Wages and salaries 201.1 195.0 Social security costs 16.6 15.8 Share options charge including employers National Insurance contribution 25 15.7 10.8 Defined contribution pension plan costs 7.6 7.9 a Defined benefit pension plan costs 28 3.6 3.1 a Post-employment benefits costs 28 0.2 0.4 Total employee benefit costs 244.8 233.0 a Defined benefit pension plan costs and post-employment benefits costs for 2013 and 2012 reflect the service cost see note 28.
Employee numbers The average monthly number of people including the Executive Directors employed during the year by category of employment: 2013 2012 Inmarsat Inmarsat Inmarsat Inmarsat Global Solutions Total Global Solutions Total Operations 231 536 767 218 528 746 Sales and marketing 126 197 323 109 209 318 Development and engineering 96 67 163 94 74 168 Administration 143 226 369 146 238 384 596 1,026 1,622 567 1,049 1,616 8.
Executive and Non-Executive Directors remuneration US$ in thousands 2013 2012 Aggregate emoluments 4,787 4,800 Company contributions to defined contribution pension schemes 169 158 4,956 4,958 During 2013, Rick Medlock resigned from his position as the Chief Financial Officer, and with effect from 3 January 2014, he is no longer a Director of Inmarsat plc.
Tony Bates will join the Company on 2 June 2014 as an Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer.
The Annual Report on Remuneration contains full disclosure of Directors remuneration on page 63.
Two Directors 2012: two are members of the Groups defined contribution pension plan.
One Director is a member of the US 401k Plan 2012: one.
Key management The Executive Chairman, the Executive Directors and the Chief Executive Officers direct reports are the key management of the business see note 36.
INMARSAT PLC 94 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 9.
Net interest payable US$ in millions 2013 2012 Interest on Senior Notes and credit facilities 84.9 81.5 a Interest on Convertible Bonds 29.5 0.9 Interest on Inmarsat Solutions borrowings 0.5 0.4 Pension and post-employment liability finance costs 0.5 Interest rate swaps 8.0 9.1 Unwinding of discount on deferred satellite liabilities 1.8 2.2 b Amortisation of debt issue costs 8.2 5.7 Other interest 0.4 0.4 Interest payable and similar charges 133.3 98.9 c Less: Amounts included in the cost of qualifying assets 79.1 42.9 Total interest payable and similar charges 54.2 56.0 Bank interest receivable and other interest 3.3 2.3 Net amortisation of premium on Senior Notes due 2017 1.5 0.9 Pension and post-employment liability finance income 0.1 Total interest receivable and similar income 4.9 3.2 Net interest payable 49.3 52.8 a 2012 includes a US$30.2m credit adjustment to interest on the Convertible Bonds following a change in the estimated maturity date see note 19. b 2012 includes an add-back of US$2.1m previously amortised issue costs in relation to the Convertible Bonds, following a change in the estimated maturity date see note 19. c B orrowing costs included in the cost of qualifying assets during the year are calculated by applying a capitalisation rate to expenditure on such assets.
The average interest capitalisation rate for the year was 7.51% 2012: 5.87%.
Income tax expense Income tax expense recognised in the Income Statement: US$ in millions 2013 2012 Current tax expense: Current year 30.0 46.9 Adjustments in respect of prior periods: a Other 46.7 2.2 Total current tax expense 76.7 49.1 Deferred tax expense: Origination and reversal of temporary differences: Other temporary differences 29.9 50.3 Adjustments in respect of prior periods: a Other 3.1 14.8 Adjustments due to reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 23% to 20% 2012: 25% to 23% 23.2 8.4 Total deferred tax expense 9.8 27.1 Total income tax expense 86.5 76.2 a O f the total US$49.8m prior period adjustment recognised in 2013, US$48.8m relates to a provision for potential tax liabilities in relation to the financing of a historic leasing transaction in respect of the Inmarsat-4 satellites.
This exposure was previously disclosed as a contingent liability in the 2012 Annual Report, however, in light of developments in the year, management now believe that the potential exposure in respect of this transaction should be provided for.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 95 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 10.
Income tax expense continued Reconciliation of effective tax rate: US$ in millions 2013 2012 Profit before tax 189.1 293.6 Income tax at 23.25% 2012: 24.5% 44.0 71.9 Differences in overseas tax rates 0.6 1.0 Adjustments in respect of prior periods: Other 49.8 12.6 Adjustments due to reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 23% to 20% 2012: 25% to 23% 23.2 8.4 Impact of current and prior year losses 2.3 1.8 Non-deductible impact of goodwill impairment 17.0 23.2 Other non-deductible expenses non-taxable income 1.8 1.3 Total income tax expense 86.5 76.2 Tax charged to equity: US$ in millions 2013 2012 Current tax credit on share options 0.1 Deferred tax credit on share options 1.6 0.3 Deferred tax charge relating to gains on cash flow hedges 3.6 2.5 Deferred tax charge on actuarial gains and losses from pension and post-employment benefits 0.6 1.2 Total tax charged to equity 2.6 3.3 11.
Net foreign exchange gains losses US$ in millions Note 2013 2012 Pension and post-retirement liability 28 0.3 0.6 Other operating costs 1.1 6.0 Total foreign exchange gains losses 1.4 6.6 12.
Dividends The dividends paid in 2013 were US$79.6m 17.79 cents US$ per ordinary share and US$122.8m 27.45 cents US$ per ordinary share for the 2013 interim dividend and the 2012 final dividend, respectively.
The dividends paid in 2012 were US$75.7m 16.94 cents US$ per ordinary share and US$111.7m 24.96 cents US$ per ordinary share for the 2012 interim dividend and the 2011 final dividend, respectively.
A final dividend for the 2013 financial year of 28.82 cents US$ per ordinary share, amounting to a total dividend of US$129.2m, is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2014.
In accordance with IAS 10, these financial statements do not reflect this final dividend payable.
US$ in cents 2013 2012 Interim dividend paid per ordinary share 17.79 16.94 Final dividend per ordinary share 28.82 27.45 Total dividend per ordinary share 46.61 44.39 INMARSAT PLC 96 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 13.
The lives assigned to significant tangible fixed assets are: Space segment assets: Satellites 1315 years Other space segment, including ground infrastructure 512 years Fixtures and fittings, and services-related equipment 315 years Buildings 20 years At 31December2013 and 2012, freehold land and buildings for Inmarsat Global were carried at cost less accumulated depreciation US$nil.
Had the freehold land and buildings been revalued on a market basis, their carrying amount at 31December2013 would have been US$14.9m based on the 31December2013 exchange rate between the US Dollar and Pounds Sterling of US$1.66 1.00 2012:US$14.6m.
Market valuation is based on the Directors best estimates.
In 2013 the Group received government grants in relation to the purchase and construction of certain assets.
The grants have been deducted from the cost of the relevant asset to arrive at the carrying amount.
Government grants received in 2013 were US$2.7m 2012:US$4.6m.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 97 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 14.
Goodwill represents the excess of consideration paid on an acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing.
During the year, goodwill originally recognised in the Stratos, Segovia and Ship Equip CGUs has been impaired, and the Group has recorded impairment charges of US$76.8m, US$34.2m and US$33.5m in the Income Statement 2012: US$58.7m, US$nil and US$36.0m, respectively, see note 4 a.
Trademarks are being amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, which are between 7 and 20 years.
The capitalised software relates to the Groups BGAN billing system and other internally developed operational systems and purchased software and is being amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life of 3 to 13 years.
The Group capitalises development costs associated with the development and enhancement of user terminals and associated network access costs as intangible fixed assets.
Costs directly relating to the Groups BGAN family and GSPS services are being amortised over the estimated sales life of the services which is 6 to 10 years.
Amortisation of costs directly relating to GX network access will commence when the Inmarsat-5 satellites are operational.
Customer relationships acquired in connection with acquisitions are being amortised over the expected period of benefit of between 12and 14 years, using the straight-line method.
Spectrum rights relate to the acquisition of ACeS and Stratos.
Spectrum rights acquired as a result of the ACeS collaboration in September 2006 have been amortised on a straight-line basis and have one year of their useful economic life remaining.
Spectrum rights acquired as a result of the acquisition of Stratos are being amortised over their useful lives of 3 to 10 years.
Orbital slots and licences relate to the Groups Alphasat satellite, GX programme and other licences acquired, and each individual asset is reviewed to determine whether it has a finite or indefinite useful life.
Amortisation of the GX programme finite life assets will commence when the Inmarsat-5 satellites are operational.
Indefinite life assets will be tested annually for impairment.
Intellectual property relates to the acquisition of ACeS and is now fully amortised.
INMARSAT PLC 98 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 15.
Investments As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2013 2012 Investments held at cost 23.5 23.5 Interest in associates 9.2 8.1 Total investments 32.7 31.6 Investments held at cost represents the Groups interest of approximately 19% in the privately held SkyWave.
The ownership in SkyWave has been recorded at cost, including capitalised transaction costs.
Interest in associates represents the Groups various investments which have been treated as associates and have all been accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Individually, all of the investments in associates are deemed to be immaterial and as a result the associates assets, liabilities, revenues and profits have not been presented.
Cash dividends received from the associates for the year ended 31 December 2013 total US$1.2m 2012: US$1.5m.
The Groups aggregate share of its associates profits for the year is US$2.3m 2012: US$2.1m and has been recognised in the Income Statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held on call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and for the purposes of the Cash Flow Statement also includes bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2013 2012 Cash at bank and in hand 50.4 57.0 Short-term deposits with original maturity of less than three months 93.9 275.1 Cash and cash equivalents 144.3 332.1 Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purposes of the Cash Flow Statement: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions Note 2013 2012 Cash and cash equivalents 144.3 332.1 Bank overdrafts 19 3.5 Net cash and cash equivalents 140.8 332.1 17.
Trade and other receivables As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2013 2012 Current: Trade receivables 194.9 201.6 Other receivables 20.5 21.0 Prepayments and accrued income 61.6 67.4 277.0 290.0 As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2013 2012 Non-current: Prepayments and accrued income 2.3 3.4 Pension asset 14.6 12.0 Other receivables 4.7 21.6 15.4 The Directors consider the carrying value of trade and other receivables to approximate to their fair value.
Inventories As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2013 2012 Finished goods 27.7 23.7 Work in progress 1.7 Total inventories 27.7 25.4 The Directors consider the carrying value of inventories to approximate to their fair value.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 99 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
Borrowings As at 31 December 2013 As at 31 December 2012 Deferred Deferred Gross finance Gross finance a a US$ in millions amount cost Net balance amount cost Net balance Current: Bank overdrafts 3.5 3.5 b Deferred satellite payments 10.6 10.6 8.3 8.3 c EIB Facility 44.1 44.1 44.1 44.1 d Ex-Im Bank Facility 13.3 13.3 e Convertible Bonds 325.6 1.0 324.6 Accretion of principal 3.0 3.0 Total current borrowings 400.1 1.0 399.1 52.4 52.4 Non-current: b Deferred satellite payments 23.6 23.6 20.4 20.4 f Senior Notes due 2017 850.0 8.7 841.3 850.0 11.0 839.0 Net issuance premium 5.9 5.9 7.5 7.5 c EIB Facility 176.2 1.1 175.1 220.2 1.6 218.6 d Ex-Im Bank Facility 530.2 18.1 512.1 397.6 16.3 381.3 e Convertible Bonds 301.3 2.0 299.3 Accretion of principal 2.9 2.9 Total non-current borrowings 1,585.9 27.9 1,558.0 1,799.9 30.9 1,769.0 g Total borrowings 1,986.0 28.9 1,957.1 1,852.3 30.9 1,821.4 a Borrowings are recorded net of unamortised deferred finance costs in the Balance Sheet.
b D eferred satellite payments represent amounts payable to satellite manufacturers which become payable annually depending on the continued successful performance of the satellite.
The gross amounts of the deferred satellite payments have been discounted to net present value using a weighted average rate of 5.1% 2012: 7.0%.
c O n 15 April 2010, the Group signed an eight-year facility agreement from the European Investment Bank the EIB Facility.
Under the agreement, the Group was able to borrow up to 225m at any time before 23December 2010.
The facility was available in Euros and US Dollars.
An initial drawdown of US$180.0m was made on 30April 2010 and a final drawdown of US$128.4m was made on 28 October 2010.
This facility matures on 30April 2018 and is repayable in equal annual instalments on both tranches beginning 30 April 2012.
Interest is equal to three-month USD LIBOR plus a margin, payable in April, July, October and January each year.
d O n 11 May 2011, the Group signed a 12.5-year US$700.0m direct financing agreement with the Export-Import Bank of the United States the Ex-Im Bank Facility.
The facility has a total availability period of four years and will then be repayable in equal instalments over a further 8.5 years.
Drawings under the facility incur interest at a fixed rate of 3.11% for the life of theloan.
e O n 16November2007, the Group issued US$287.7m in principal amount of 1.75% Convertible Bonds due 2017 the Convertible Bonds.
The bonds are convertible into ordinary shares of the Company and have a 1.75% per annum coupon payable semi-annually and a yield to maturity of 4.50%.
The bonds have an initial conversion premium of 32.5% over the reference share price of 4.6193, representing approximately 5% of the Companys current issued share capital.
The initial conversion price was US$12.694 and the total number of common shares to be issued if all bonds are converted was 22.7million shares.
The conversion price is subject to periodic adjustment if dividends paid on ordinary shares exceed defined levels.
In 2012, the conversion price was adjusted to US$12.490 and the total number of shares to be issued if all bonds are converted to 23.0 million shares.
The Company will have an option to call the bonds after seven years at their accreted principal amount under certain circumstances.
In addition, the holder of each bond had the right to require the Company to redeem the bonds at the accreted principal amount on 16November 2012 and will have the right again on 16November 2014.
None of the bonds were redeemed on 16 November 2012: as a result management have revised the estimated maturity date to November 2014.
The amortised cost was adjusted in 2012 and as at 31 December 2012 the Convertible Bonds were recorded as a long-term liability.
As at 31 December 2013, the Convertible Bonds have been recorded as a current liability.
The net proceeds received from the issue of the Convertible Bonds were initially split into a liability component of US$224.3m and an equity component of US$56.9m.
The equity component represents the fair value of the option to convert the liability into equity of the Group asfollows: US$ in millions Fair value of Convertible Bonds issued 287.7 Cost of issue 6.5 Net proceeds 281.2 1 Equity component 56.9 2 Liability component at date of issue 224.3 Cumulative interest charged to 31December2012 100.4 Cumulative amortisation of debt issue costs to 31December2012 3.1 Cumulative coupon interest to 31December2012 25.6 Liability component at 31December2012 302.2 Interest charged 29.4 Amortisation of debt issue costs 1.0 Coupon interest 5.0 Liability component at 31 December 2013 327.6 1 Net of capitalised issue costs of US$1.3m.
2 Net of capitalised issue costs of US$5.2m.
T he interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 9.88% to the liability component.
The total interest charge is split between the coupon interest charge of US$5.0m and accreted interest of US$24.4m.
The coupon interest is paid semi-annually in May and November each year until maturity.
Similarly, the bonds accrete semi-annually in May and November each year until maturity.
f O n 12November2009, the Group issued US$650.0m aggregate principal amount of 7.375% Senior Notes due 1December 2017 Senior Notes due 2017.
The aggregate gross proceeds were US$645.2m, net of US$4.8m issuance discount and the Group capitalised US$12.5m of issuance costs.
On 11 April 2012, a further US$200.0m aggregate principal amount of the Groups Senior Notes due 2017 was issued.
The aggregate proceeds were US$212.0m, including US$12.0m premium on issuance and the Group capitalised US$3.8m of issuance costs.
g O n 30 June 2011, the Group signed a five-year US$750.0m revolving credit facility Senior Credit Facility with a group of commercial banks as lenders.
Advances under the facility bear interest at a rate equal to the applicable USD LIBOR, plus a margin of between 1.00% and 2.50% determined by reference to the Groups ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
As at 31 December 2013 and 2012, there were no drawings on the Senior Credit Facility.
INMARSAT PLC 100 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 The maturity of non-current borrowings is as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2013 2012 Between one and two years 103.6 360.3 Between two and five years 1,173.5 1,116.7 After five years 280.9 292.0 1,558.0 1,769.0 The borrowings of the Group are mostly at fixed rates.
The Senior Notes due 2017, Convertible Bonds and the Ex-Im Bank Facility are at fixed rates.
The Directors consider the carrying value of borrowings, other than the Senior Notes due 2017 and Convertible Bonds to approximate to their fair value see note 32.
The effective interest rates, excluding the impact of the Groups interest rate hedging policy, at the balance sheet dates were asfollows: Effective interest rate % 2013 2012 Bank overdrafts 1.50 2.05 EIB Facility 1.52 1.65 Senior Notes due 2017 7.375 7.375 Ex-Im Bank Facility 3.11 3.11 Deferred satellite payments 5.1 7.0 Convertible Bonds 9.88 9.88 20.
Trade and other payables As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2013 2012 Current: Trade payables 132.4 169.0 a Deferred consideration 3.1 2.1 Other taxation and social security payables 5.2 4.0 Other creditors 2.5 2.2 b Accruals and deferred income 372.5 386.4 515.7 563.7 a Deferred consideration includes US$1.1m SkyWave deferred consideration 2012: US$1.1m see note 15 and US$2.0m other short-term deferred consideration 2012: US$1.0m.
b A s at 31 December 2013, includes US$252.6m 2012: US$264.9m of deferred income relating to payments received from LightSquared.
During 2013, US$12.3m was released to the Income Statement to reflect revenue earned, based on the percentage of completion method 2012: US$60.2m.
As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2013 2012 Non-current: a Deferred consideration 0.7 1.9 Other payables 25.5 23.8 26.2 25.7 a In 2012, deferred consideration included US$1.1m SkyWave deferred consideration 2013: US$nil see note 15.
The Directors consider the carrying value of trade and other payables to approximate to their fair value.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 101 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
Provisions Asset Other retirement US$ in millions provision obligations Total Current: As at 1January2012 2.7 0.2 2.9 a Charged in respect of current year 6.5 6.5 Utilised in current year 3.8 0.1 3.9 As at 31December2012 5.4 0.1 5.5 b Charged in respect of current year 4.3 4.3 Utilised in current year 5.9 0.2 6.1 Transferred from non-current liabilities 0.6 0.6 As at 31December2013 3.8 0.5 4.3 a D uring the year ended 31 December 2012, US$6.5m was charged to the restructuring provision, of which US$1.1m was utilised during the year.
The restructuring provision at 31 December 2012 was US$5.4m, all of which was utilised during 2013. b D uring the year ended 31 December 2013, a further US$4.3m was charged to the restructuring provision, of which US$0.5m was utilised during the year.
Management expects to utilise the US$3.8m restructuring provision that remains as at 31December 2013 during 2014.
PostAsset employment retirement Other US$ in millions benefits Pension obligations provisions Total Non-current: As at 1January2012 15.3 6.9 3.8 0.7 26.7 Charged to Income Statement in respect of current year 2.0 2.0 0.3 4.3 Credited directly to Comprehensive Income in respect of currentyear 0.5 3.9 4.4 Contributions paid 11.9 11.9 Utilised in current year 0.3 0.9 0.1 1.3 a Transferred to non-current assets 12.0 12.0 As at 31December2012 16.5 4.2 4.1 0.6 25.4 Charged to Income Statement in respect of current year 1.3 2.4 0.2 1.2 5.1 Credited directly to Comprehensive Income in respect of currentyear 0.1 2.6 2.7 Contributions paid 2.2 2.2 Utilised in current year 0.3 0.7 0.2 1.2 Transferred to liabilities associated with assets held for sale 2.5 2.5 a Net movement in pension asset 2.6 2.6 Transferred to current liabilities 0.6 0.6 As at 31December2013 17.4 3.7 1.2 1.6 23.9 a A t 31 December 2012 the Inmarsat Global defined benefit pension plan the plan was in an asset position, and this balance was therefore transferred to non-current trade and other receivables.
As at 31 December 2013 the plan remains in an asset position see note 17.
During 2012, the Group made an additional cash contribution to the Inmarsat Global pension plan of 6.0m or US$9.6m.
As a result of the additional contributions made to the Inmarsat Global pension plan in previous years, it is no longer in a deficit position and therefore no further additional cash contributions were made in 2013, or are expected in 2014.
Asset retirement obligations have been recognised in respect of the expected costs of removal of equipment from leased premises by Inmarsat Solutions.
INMARSAT PLC 102 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 22.
Current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities The current income tax asset of US$11.6m and current income tax liability of US$100.2m 2012: US$nil and US$32.7m, respectively, represent the income tax payable in respect of current and prior periods less amounts paid.
Recognised deferred income tax assets and liabilities The movements in deferred income tax assets and liabilities prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12 during the year are shown below: As at 31December2013 As at 31December2012 US$ in millions Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 0.3 144.0 143.7 138.9 138.9 a Other 7.2 34.5 27.3 7.4 23.0 15.6 Pension and post-employment benefits 1.1 0.3 0.8 1.4 1.4 Share options 6.6 6.6 3.9 3.9 Loss carry forwards 10.8 10.8 7.9 7.9 Net deferred income tax liabilities 26.0 178.8 152.8 20.6 161.9 141.3 a The majority of the other balance relates to the Groups capitalised borrowing costs.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
The above balance is recognised on the Balance Sheet as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2013 2012 Deferred income tax assets 21.3 Deferred income tax liabilities 174.1 141.3 Net deferred income tax liabilities 152.8 141.3 Movement in temporary differences during the year: As at Transferred Recognised As at 1 January TC Comms to held in Income Recognised 31 December US$ in millions 2013 acquisition for sale Statement in equity 2013 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 138.9 1.0 5.8 143.7 Other 15.6 8.1 3.6 27.3 Pension and post-employment benefits 1.4 0.6 0.8 Share options 3.9 1.1 1.6 6.6 Loss carry forwards 7.9 0.1 3.0 10.8 Total 141.3 0.1 1.0 9.8 2.6 152.8 As at Recognised As at 1 January NewWave in Income Recognised 31 December US$ in millions 2012 acquisition Statement in equity 2012 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 120.2 1.9 16.8 138.9 Other 1.1 12.0 2.5 15.6 Pension and post-employment benefits 4.0 1.4 1.2 1.4 Share options 3.1 0.5 0.3 3.9 Loss carry forwards 5.3 2.6 7.9 Total 108.9 1.9 27.1 3.4 141.3 Total unprovided deferred tax assets: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2013 2012 Temporary timing differences 9.6 8.9 Unused income tax losses 6.9 13.9 Unused capital losses 25.3 29.1 Total 41.8 51.9 INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 103 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 22.
Current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities continued Overseas dividends received are largely exempt from UK tax but may be subject to foreign withholding taxes.
The unrecognised gross temporary difference in respect of the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries affected by such taxes is US$9.1m 2012: US$104.0m, resulting in a deferred tax liability of US$0.5m 2012:US$5.2m.
No deferred tax liability is recognised on these temporary differences as the Group is able to control the timing of reversal and it is probable that this will not take place in the foreseeable future.
The Budget announced by the UK Chancellor on 20 March 2013 included changes to the main rate of corporation tax for UK companies.
The standard rate of corporation tax will be reduced from 23% to 21% from 1 April 2014 and there will be a further reduction to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015.
The Finance Act 2013 received Royal Assent on 17 July 2013, with these rate reductions being substantively enacted from 2 July 2013.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are calculated at the substantively enacted rateof 20%.
Cash generated from operations Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash inflow from operating activities: US$ in millions 2013 2012 Profit for the year 102.6 217.4 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation 232.0 255.2 Income tax charge 86.5 76.2 Interest payable 54.2 56.0 Interest receivable 4.9 3.2 Non-cash employee benefit costs 15.7 10.8 Forward exchange contracts 2.3 1.1 Share of profit of associates, net of dividends received 1.1 0.6 Loss on disposal of fixed assets 0.1 0.5 Acquisition-related adjustments 4.6 Impairment losses 185.2 94.7 Non-cash foreign exchange movements 1.3 1.0 Changes in net working capital: Increase in trade and other receivables 10.9 26.8 Increase in inventories 6.5 1.9 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 35.0 41.4 Increase in provisions 2.5 5.1 Cash generated from operations 614.8 726.9 24.
Share capital As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2013 2012 Authorised: 1,166,610,560 ordinary shares of 0.0005 each 2012: 1,166,610,560 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 Allotted, issued and fully paid: 448,301,122 ordinary shares of 0.0005 each 2012: 447,861,846 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 During the year ended 31December2013, a total of 439,276 2012: 1,349,910 ordinary shares of 0.0005 each were allotted and issued by the Company under its employee share schemes.
In the year ended 31 December 2012, the Company repurchased 1.3m ordinary shares at a total cost of US$9.9m, all of which were cancelled immediately.
During the year ended 31 December 2013, no shares were repurchased.
Employee share options and awards In line with IFRS 2, Share-based Payment, the Group recognised US$15.7m 2012: US$10.8m in total share compensation costs across all of its share plans for the 2013 financial year.
Total share-based compensation costs are recognised over the vesting period of the options and share awards ranging from one to four years.
All options granted under the Staff Value Participation Plan the 2004 Plan have now vested and are exercisable.
Whenever options are exercised under the 2004 Plan, the holder must pay a fide minimis charge of 1 for each tranche of options exercised.
The options expire 10 years from the date of grant.
Shares are transferred to the optionholders from the Inmarsat Employees Share Ownership Plan Trust the Trust resident in Guernsey.
No new shares have been issued to satisfy the exercise of these options.
INMARSAT PLC 104 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 A summary of all share activity within the Trust, which reflects the options outstanding under the 2004 Plan as at 31December2013, is asfollows: Weighted 2004 average Shares Plan exercise available options price per for grant outstanding option Balance at 1January2012 1,169,359 95,783 3.72 Exercised re 2004 Plan 18,757 5.00 Exercise re International Sharesave Plan 47,998 Exercise re International Share Incentive Plan 3,365 Exercise re CEO Share Plans 303,308 5.73 Balance at 31December2012 814,688 77,026 3.72 Exercise re International Share Incentive Plan 38,533 Balance at 31December2013 776,155 77,026 3.72 Exercisable at 31December2013 77,026 Exercise Price per tranche 1.00 The weighted average of the remaining contractual life for the 2004 Plan at 31December2013 is one year.
The Company also operates a Bonus Share Plan BSP.
Awards have been made regularly under the BSP to the Executive Directors and certain members of senior management and details of the awards made to the Executive Directors in 2013 are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Awards are made in the form of a conditional allocation of shares.
The performance conditions attached to the BSP are non-market based performance conditions.
Any dividends paid by the Company will accrue and be added as additional shares upon vesting.
Details of the operation of the BSP can be found in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Under the rules of the BSP the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to satisfy the awards using cash instead of shares.
It is, however, the intention of the Company to generally satisfy the awards using newly-issued shares.
As the BSP provides non-contributory share awards with no market-based performance conditions attached, and which carry an entitlement to dividends paid in cash or shares during the vesting period, the fair value of the awards is the value of the grant.
This is due to the fact that regardless of the market price at the time the award of shares is made, the total value of shares to be awarded excluding shares added in lieu of dividends will not change.
The Remuneration Committee has approved a Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, for the Groups business unit presidents and certain members of staff.
The LTIP sits within the existing rules of the BSP and is a three-year plan with annual targets set in advance.
The current three-year plan relates to the 2012 to 2014 financial years and awards are made according to achievements against non-market based targets and are used to buy shares in the Company.
The Company also operates a Performance Share Plan PSP, and regular annual awards are made to the Executive Directors and certain members of senior management.
Details of awards made to the Executive Directors under the PSP in 2013 are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Participants are entitled to receive the value of any dividends that are paid between the date of award to the date of vesting in the form of additional shares.
Any such additional shares are only added to the number of shares which will vest subject to performance conditions being satisfied.
The PSP shares will not normally be transferred to participants until the third anniversary of the award date.
The transfer of shares is dependent upon the performance conditions being satisfied over the three consecutive financial years starting in the financial year the award date falls.
The rules of the PSP provide that the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to satisfy the awards using cash instead of shares.
It is, however, the intention of the Company to satisfy the awards using newly-issued shares at the end of the relevant three-year period.
The performance conditions for the PSP are based on the Groups Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to constituents of the FTSE350 Index excluding investment trusts and a non-market based condition, based on EBITDA measured over a three-year period.
The vesting schedule for PSP awards up to and including the award made in 2011 is determined by a combination of TSR and EBITDA performance.
For the awards made in March 2012 and March 2013, the vesting schedule is structured so that 50% of the reward is linked to the performance of TSR and 50% is linked to EBITDA, as individual performance measures.
The market-based performance condition has been incorporated into the fair value.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 105 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25.
Employee share options and awards continued The fair value of the allocation and the assumptions used in the calculation for PSP schemes which vested in 2013 or are due to vest in 2014 or after are as follows: Performance Share Plan 26 March 18 May 30 March 19 March Grant date 2010 2011 2012 2013 Grant price 7.905 6.07 4.603 7.00 Exercise price nil nil nil nil Bad leaver rate 0% 0% 0% 0% Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years Volatility 35.7% 32.1% 33.9% 34.1% Fair value per share option 5.62 3.17 3.61 5.76 Both the BSP and PSP share awards expire 10 years after date of grant or such shorter period as the Remuneration Committee may determine before the grant of an award.
For share awards outstanding at the period end the weighted average of the remaining contractual life for the BSP and PSP share awards at 31December2013 is 1.5 and 1.4 years respectively.
In addition, the Company operates a HM Revenue & Customs approved UK Sharesave Scheme.
The grant made inDecember2008 with an option price of 3.06 per ordinary share reflecting the maximum discount permitted of 20% matured in February 2012.
A new grant was made in December 2012 with an option price of 4.59 reflecting the maximum discount permitted of 20% which will mature in February 2016.
The Company also operates an International Sharesave Plan which mirrors the operation of the UK Sharesave Scheme as closely as possible.
Participants receive either the opportunity to receive options in the same way as the UK Sharesave Scheme, or receive the spread between the share price at the date of exercise and the grant price, delivered at the Companys discretion in cash or shares.
Itis the Companys intention to satisfy the awards using shares, some of which are held by the Trust and some of which will be newly-issued.
The grant under the International Sharesave Plan made inDecember2008 with an option price of 3.06 per ordinary share matured in February 2012.
A new grant was made in December 2012 with an option price of 4.59 which will mature in February 2016.
Options under the UK Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan expire after a maximum of 3.5 years following the initial savings payments having been made.
The remaining contractual life for the current grant of the UK Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan at 31December2013 is 2.5 years for each plan.
In 2012, the Company introduced a new Employee Stock Purchase Plan ESPP, for US and Canadian employees to purchase the Companys stock at a 15% discount using funds accumulated by an aggregate of 24 monthly contributions.
This plan was approved at the Companys Annual General Meeting in May 2013.
A grant was made under the scheme in November 2012 with an option price of 4.94 reflecting the maximum discount permitted of 15% which will mature in January 2015.
Options under the ESPP expire after a maximum of 2.25 years.
The remaining contractual life for the current grant of the ESPP at 31December 2013 is 1.2 years.
Options under the UK Sharesave Scheme, International Sharesave Plan and ESPP have been valued using the Black-Scholes model with the following assumptions: Sharesave Sharesave Scheme Scheme Employee Stock UK and International UK and International Purchase Plan Grant date 15December2008 18December2012 26 November 2012 Market price at date of grant 4.44 5.93 5.93 Exercise price 3.06 4.59 4.94 Bad leaver rate 3% pa 3% pa 3% pa Vesting period 3 years 3 years 2 years Volatility 33.2% 33.1% 36.5% Dividend yield assumption 3.36% 4.53% 4.53% Risk free interest rate 2.46% 0.46% 0.36% Fair value per option 1.50 1.45 1.34 Several awards have been made under a HM Revenue & Customs approved UK Share Incentive Plan SIP.
Arrangements were put in place for eligible overseas employees to replicate the awards made under the SIP as closely as possible.
The same market values per ordinary share were used as for the SIP for each award.
In 2007 and subsequently amended in 2009, the Remuneration Committee made the Chief Executive Officer now Executive Chairman an exceptional award of up to 1.7m incentive shares conditional upon the delivery of significant share price growth the CEO Award.
The CEO Award reached its maturity date on 30 September 2012 and vested in November 2012.
The share price for assessing the performance of the CEO Award was 5.7299.
Of the total 1.7m shares potentially available under the award, 160,631 shares, including shares in lieu of accrued dividends, vested and were issued to the former Chief Executive Officer now Executive Chairman in November2012.
INMARSAT PLC 106 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 In addition, a deferred share bonus award of 125,000 shares share price of 6.59 per share was made to the former Chief Executive Officer now Executive Chairman in December 2009, which reached its maturity date on 30 September 2012.
The performance condition of EBITDA growth relating to the 2010 financial year was satisfied, therefore 142,677 shares, including shares issued in lieu of accrued dividends, vested and were issued to the former Chief Executive Office now Executive Chairman in November 2012.
CEO Deferred Share Bonus CEO Award Award 28 September 16 December Grant date 2007 2009 Grant price 4.49 6.59 Exercise price nil nil Bad leaver rate 0% 0% Vesting period 5 years 3 years Expected correlation between any pair of shares in PSP comparator group n a n a Volatility 28% n a Fair value per share option 2.65 6.59 A summary of share awards and option activity as at 31December2013 excluding the 2004 Plan which is noted above is as follows: SIP Sharesave Sharesave a SIP UK International BSP PSP UK International ESPP Total Balance at 31December2012 572,471 38,533 1,648,567 1,219,470 626,904 315,827 126,402 4,548,174 Granted Allocated 1,074,323 495,307 1,569,630 Forfeited and lapsed 33,165 240,499 53,223 2,510 11,709 341,106 Exercised 2,754 2,754 Transferred Sold 108,914 38,533 865,590 1,013,037 Balance at 31December2013 463,557 1,824,135 1,474,278 570,927 313,317 114,693 4,760,907 Exercisable at 31December2013 Exercise Price per share n a n a nil nil 4.59 4.59 4.94 a Includes the LTIP scheme, which sits within the existing rules of the BSP.
Reserves Cash flow hedge reserve: US$ in millions 2013 2012 Balance as at 1 January 2.5 11.4 Gain loss recognised on cash flow hedges: Forward exchange contracts 11.6 4.6 Interest rate swaps 7.8 FX movement through cash flow hedge reserve 1.5 Income tax charged directly to equity 2.1 2.9 a Reclassified to the Income Statement Forward exchange contracts 3.4 0.6 Interest rate swaps 9.4 FX movement through cash flow hedge reserve 0.2 0.2 a Income tax charged credited related to amounts transferred to the Income Statement 1.5 0.4 b Reclassified and capitalised on the Balance Sheet Forward exchange contracts 0.8 0.2 c Forward exchange contracts previously derecognised as ineffective 0.9 FX movement through cash flow hedge reserve 0.1 Balance as at 31 December 8.6 2.5 INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 107 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 26.
Reserves continued The cash flow hedge reserve represents hedging gains and losses recognised on the effective portion of cash flow hedges.
The cumulative deferred gain or loss on the hedge is recognised in the Income Statement or capitalised on the Balance Sheet when the underlying hedged transaction impacts the Income Statement Balance Sheet.
The outstanding balance as at 31 December 2013 relates to expenditure which is expected to take place in 2014 and 2015.
Any capital items are subsequently depreciated in line with the underlying asset.
a Gains and losses reclassified from equity into the Income Statement during the period are included in the following Income Statementlines: US$ in millions 2013 2012 Total net operating costs 3.2 0.8 Interest payable and similar charges 9.4 Income tax expense 1.5 0.4 Total reclassified charged credited to the Income Statement in the year 4.7 0.4 b Gains and losses reclassified from equity and capitalised on the Balance Sheet during the period are included in the following Balance Sheet lines: US$ in millions 2013 2012 Property, plant and equipment 1.6 0.2 Total reclassified credited and capitalised on the Balance Sheet in the year 1.6 0.2 c Forward exchange contracts previously derecognised as they were deemed ineffective were released from the cash flow hedge reserve and capitalised on the Balance Sheet in line with the underlying expenditure.
Earnings per share and adjusted earnings per share Basic earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the employee share trust, which are treated as cancelled, and after taking account of the restructuring of the existing share capital.
2013 2012 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company US$ in millions 102.0 217.1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue number 448,167,216 447,721,218 Basic earnings per share US$ per share 0.23 0.48 Diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share is calculated adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
Currently the underlying shares in relation to the share options and awards in relation to employee share plans are the only categories of dilutive potential ordinary shares.
A calculation is performed to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value determined as the average annual market price of the Companys shares based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share options and awards and value of related future employeeservices.
2013 2012 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for diluted earnings per share number US$ in millions 102.0 217.1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue number 448,167,216 447,721,218 Adjustments for: Share options number 4,588,215 3,176,105 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share number 452,755,431 450,897,323 Diluted earnings per share US$ per share 0.23 0.48 INMARSAT PLC 108 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 Adjusted earnings per share The basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2013 were adjusted to exclude the US$9.0m US$6.9m net of tax contribution in relation to the LightSquared Cooperation Agreement and the impairment losses of US$185.2m US$159.2m net oftax.
The basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2012 were adjusted to exclude the US$51.9m US$39.2m net of tax contribution in relation to the LightSquared Cooperation Agreement and the impairment losses of US$94.7m.
2013 2012 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company US$ in millions 102.0 217.1 Adjustments for: LightSquared Cooperation Agreement net of tax 6.9 39.2 Impairment losses net of tax 159.2 94.7 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for diluted earnings 254.3 272.6 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue number 448,167,216 447,721,218 Adjusted basic earnings per share US$ per share 0.57 0.61 2013 2012 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for diluted earnings per share number US$ in millions 102.0 217.1 Adjustments for: LightSquared Cooperation Agreement net of tax 6.9 39.2 Impairment losses net of tax 159.2 94.7 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for diluted earnings per share number US$ in millions 254.3 272.6 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue number 448,167,216 447,721,218 Adjustments for: Share options number 4,588,215 3,176,105 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share number 452,755,431 450,897,323 Adjusted diluted earnings per share US$ per share 0.56 0.60 The Convertible Bonds could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future: however, they have not been included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share as they are antidilutive for both the periods presented.
Pension arrangements and post-employment benefits The Group operates pension schemes in each of its principal locations.
The Groups pension plans are provided through both defined benefit schemes and defined contribution arrangements.
The Group operates defined benefit pension schemes in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Norway.
The Groups principal defined benefit pension scheme is the UK scheme for Inmarsat Global, which is a funded scheme with assets held in a separate fund administered by a corporate trustee: the scheme is closed to new employees.
The Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan was valued using the projected unit credit method with thevaluation undertaken by professionally qualified and independent actuaries as at 31December2011.
The results of the valuation, which have been updated for any material transactions and material changes in circumstances including changes in market prices and interest rates up to 31December2013, are set out below.
The Group also provides post-employment benefits for some of its employees.
The Groups principal scheme is Inmarsat Globals post-retirement healthcare benefit scheme, which is the provision of healthcare to retired employees and their dependants who were employed before 1 January 1998.
Employees who have 10 years of service at the age of 58 and retire are eligible to participate in the post-retirement healthcare benefit plans.
Membership of this plan is multinational, although most staff are currently employed in the UK.
The plans are self-funded and there are no plan assets from which the costs are paid.
The cost of providing these benefits is actuarially determined and accrued over the service period of the active employee groups.
Schemes denominated in local currencies are subject to fluctuations in the exchange rate between US Dollars and local currencies.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 109 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 28.
Pension arrangements and post-employment benefits continued The primary risk to which the Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan exposes the Group is the risk arising through a mismatch between the plans assets and its liabilities.
This is primarily made up of a number of strategic investment risks.
The key strategic investment risks inherent in the current investment strategy are as follows: Market risk the risk that investment returns on assets are lower than assumed in the actuarial valuation, thereby resulting in the funding level being lower than expected : Interest rate risk the risk that the assets do not move in line with the value placed on the liabilities in response to changes in interestrates : Inflation risk similar to interest rate risk but concerning inflation : Credit risk the risk that payments due to corporate bond investors may not be made : Active management risk the risk that active managers underperform the markets in which they invest, resulting in lower-thanexpected investment returns : and Currency risk the risk that currency market movements adversely impact investment returns.
In addition to the investment related risks, the plan is also subject to the risk that members live longer than expected, or that the financial assumptions used in valuing the liabilities are not borne out in practice.
This could lead to unexpected contributions from the Group being required to meet the benefit payments due.
The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate the Groups pension and post-employment benefits liabilities under IAS19 are: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Weighted average actuarial assumptions used at 31 December: Discount rate 4.72% 4.60% Future salary increases 3.43% 3.05% a Medical cost trend rate 4.00% 3.60% Future pension increases 3.32% 2.93% a W ith effect from 1 January 2012, an inflationary cap on premiums for the Inmarsat Global post-retirement healthcare benefit scheme was introduced, set at CPI plus 1%.
The Group will pay the annual premium and any increase in percentage terms to the premium, up to a percentage amount capped at no more than CPI plus 1%.
Any increase to the annual premium above the inflationary cap will be payable by the members of the scheme.
Mortality assumptions have been updated to reflect experience and expected changes in future improvements in life expectancy.
The average life expectancy assumptions for the Companys pension and post-employment benefits liabilities are as follows: 2013 2012 Number Number of years of years Male current age 65 88.2 88.0 Female current age 65 90.2 89.9 Mortality assumptions used are consistent with those recommended by the individual scheme actuaries and reflect the latest available tables, adjusted for the experience of the Group where appropriate.
For the Inmarsat Global defined benefit pension scheme and the Inmarsat Global post-retirement healthcare benefits for 2013 and 2012, mortality has been assumed to follow the SAPS tables with -1 year age rating for males and CMI 2011 improvement with a long term trend of 1.5%.
Significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the defined benefit obligation are discount rate, expected salary increase, mortality and healthcare cost trend rates.
The sensitivity analysis below is for the Groups principal pension and post-employment benefits schemes, and has been determined based on reasonable possible changes of the assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period assuming that all other assumptions are held constant.
Inmarsat Global defined benefit scheme: Impact on Impact on benefit projected obligation pension cost increase increase Change in assumption decrease decrease Increase in discount factor of 0.25% 5.7% 30.4% Decrease in discount factor of 0.25% 6.1% 31.0% Increase in inflation of 0.25% 6.2% 30.1% Decrease in inflation of 0.25% 5.7% 28.0% Mortality: -2 years for males and -1 year for females 2.4% 11.2% INMARSAT PLC 110 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 Inmarsat Global post-retirement healthcare benefit scheme: Impact on benefit Impact on obligation service cost increase increase Change in assumption decrease decrease Increase in discount factor of 0.5% 8.9% Increase in inflation of 0.5% 10.2% Increase in healthcare cost trend rate of 1% 21.8% 5.4% Decrease in healthcare cost trend rate of 1% 17.0% 4.2% In reality there is an expectation of interrelationships between the assumptions, for example, between discount rate and inflation.
The above analysis does not take the effect of these interrelationships into account.
Amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet are: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2013 2012 Present value of funded defined benefit obligations pension 101.9 86.5 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations pension 1.2 1.8 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations post-employment benefits 17.4 16.5 Fair value of defined benefit assets 114.0 96.1 Net defined benefit liability recognised in the Balance Sheet 6.5 8.7 The above net liability is recognised in the Balance Sheet as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions Note 2013 2012 Pension asset 17 14.6 12.0 Defined benefit liability 21 21.1 20.7 Analysis of the movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligations is as follows: Defined benefit Postpension employment US$ in millions plan benefits At 1January2012 78.0 15.3 Current service cost 3.1 0.4 Interest cost 3.5 0.9 Remeasurement losses gains : Actuarial losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions 4.7 0.3 Actuarial gains arising from changes in financial assumptions 5.3 Experience losses gains 0.5 0.8 Foreign exchange losses 4.2 0.7 Benefits paid 1.7 0.3 Contributions by pension participants 1.3 At 31December2012 88.3 16.5 Current service cost 3.0 0.2 Interest cost 3.9 0.8 Remeasurement losses gains : Actuarial losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions 0.4 Actuarial losses gains arising from changes in financial assumptions 4.9 0.1 Foreign exchange losses 2.8 0.3 Benefits paid 1.5 0.3 Contributions by pension participants 1.3 At 31December2013 103.1 17.4 INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 111 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 28.
Pension arrangements and post-employment benefits continued Analysis of the movement in the fair value of the assets of the defined benefit pension plans is as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2013 2012 At 1 January 96.1 71.1 Interest income 4.5 4.5 Remeasurement gains: Experience return on plan asset excluding interest income 7.4 3.1 Actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions 0.2 Actuarial gains arising from changes in financial assumptions 0.3 0.7 Contributions by employer 2.1 11.9 Contributions by pension participants 1.4 1.3 Benefits paid 0.8 0.8 Expenses paid included in service cost 0.6 Foreign exchange gains 3.4 4.3 At 31 December 114.0 96.1 Amounts recognised in the Income Statement in respect of the plans are as follows: 2013 2012 Defined PostDefined Postbenefit employment benefit employment US$ in millions pension plan benefits pension plan benefits Current service cost 3.6 0.2 3.1 0.4 Net interest income expense 0.6 0.8 1.0 0.9 Foreign exchange gain loss 0.6 0.3 0.1 0.7 2.4 1.3 2.0 2.0 Current service cost is included within employee benefit costs note 7.
The net financing costs together with foreign exchange gains and losses are included within interest payable note 9.
Amounts recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in respect of the plans are as follows: 2013 2012 Defined PostDefined Postbenefit employment benefit employment US$ in millions pension plan benefits pension plan benefits Actuarial losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions 0.2 4.7 0.3 Actuarial losses gains arising from changes in financial assumptions 4.6 0.1 6.0 Return on plan asset excluding interest income 7.4 3.1 Experience losses gains 0.5 0.8 Remeasurement of the net defined benefit asset and liability 2.6 0.1 3.9 0.5 The assets held in respect of the Groups defined benefit schemes were as follows: As at 31 December 2013 As at 31 December 2012 Value Percentage Value Percentage US$ in of total plan US$ in of total plan millions assets % millions assets % Equities 39.0 34.21% 69.1 71.90% Cash 0.2 0.17% 9.4 9.78% Bonds 60.2 52.81% 15.4 16.03% Other 14.6 12.81% 2.2 2.29% Fair value of scheme assets 114.0 96.1 INMARSAT PLC 112 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 The Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan assets, which contribute over 95% of the total Group assets, are all invested in pooled investment funds, all of which are priced daily, except for the High Lease-to-Value Property and Alternatives funds, which are priced monthly.
The assets are split into two portfolios, the growth portfolio and the matching portfolio.
The assets within the growth portfolio are invested so as to achieve an appropriate level of growth above that of the plans liabilities, ensuring a sufficiently diversified portfolio of investments provides the plan with a variety of sources of return, without unduly exposing the plan to a single type of risk.
The assets within the matching portfolio are invested so as to minimise the level of unrewarded risk and ensure the portfolio broadly matches changes in the value of the plans liabilities.
This is achieved by investing in a range of pooled investment funds as outlined in the table above, with the allocation to each fund determined by a combination of the following: the nature of the plans liability structure, the target level of hedging deemed appropriate to reflect the Trustees risk tolerance and a fair value assessment of market levels.
Some of these funds achieve their objectives by utilising a range of bond bond type instruments, resulting in leveraged exposure which enables the plan to match a greater proportion of its liabilities than would be possible by only holding physical securities.
Instruments utilised within the funds include fixed interest gilts, index-linked gilts, corporate bonds, gilt repos, interest rate swaps, inflation swaps and total return swaps.
The plan does not hold any direct investments in the Group, however, due to the pooled nature of the investment funds, there may be some indirect investment.
The duration of the defined benefit liabilities within the Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan is approximately 27 years.
The defined benefit obligation within that plan is split as follows: Active members 67% Deferred members 27% Pensioner members 6% The average age of the non-pensioner and pensioner members at the date of the last statutory funding valuation for the Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan 31December2011 was 52 years and 67 years, respectively.
The estimated contributions expected to be paid into the Inmarsat Global defined benefit pension plan during 2014 are US$1.2m 2013:actual US$1.2m.
Under the current Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan Recovery Plan and Schedule of Contributions there are no further contributions due in respect of the past service deficit revealed as part of the last statutory funding valuation as at 31 December 2011.
The current Schedule of Contributions requires the Company to pay 15% of pensionable salary in respect ofthe additional accrual of future benefits for members of the defined benefit tier of the Pensionbuilder section and any notional member contributions payable under the SMART arrangement.
Contribution in respect of the Defined Contribution tier and the Pensionsaver section are paid in addition.
The next statutory funding valuation of the Plan will be carried out as at 31 December 2014.
As part of this the Trustees and Company will be required to agree a pattern of contributions to cover any deficit revealed by the valuation, along with the rate payable for future accrual of benefits.
This could lead to an increase or decrease from the current level of contributions.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 113 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 29.
Acquisitions Acquisition of TC Communications On 8 May 2013, the Group acquired the shares of TC Communications Pty Ltd TC Comms, a company based in Australia.
The operations of TC Comms have been integrated within the Inmarsat Solutions business and contribute to the Global Government and Enterprise business units.
Acquisition of NewWave Broadband Limited On 13 January 2012, the Group acquired all of the outstanding and issued common shares of NewWave Broadband Limited NewWave for a total consideration of US$7.7m net of cash acquired.
The operations of NewWave have been integrated within the Inmarsat Solutions business.
Both acquisitions have been accounted for using the purchase method of accounting in accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
The Group has not presented full acquisition notes in line with IFRS 3 as the acquisitions are not considered to bematerial.
Operating lease and other commitments The Groups future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases and other unrecognised contractual commitments are as follows: As at 31 December 2013 As at 31 December 2012 NonOther NonOther cancellable unrecognised cancellable unrecognised operating contractual operating contractual US$ in millions leases commitments Total leases commitments Total Within one year 18.0 21.8 39.8 17.5 11.7 29.2 Within two to five years 55.8 27.6 83.4 54.2 14.8 69.0 After five years 74.5 74.5 87.4 0.2 87.6 148.3 49.4 197.7 159.1 26.7 185.8 Operating lease commitments relate to primarily leased office space, including the Groups head office located at 99 City Road, London.
Other unrecognised non-cancellable contractual commitments relate to network service contracts and maintenance contracts, which have varying terms.
In addition the Group has the following purchase commitments, relating to future obligations to purchase space segment capacity: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2013 2012 Within one year 43.6 40.1 Within two to five years 28.8 42.9 72.4 83.0 The total of future sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases at 31December2013 relating to the above head office lease is US$2.6m over two years as at 31December2012: US$3.7m over three years.
The Group has various agreements deriving revenue from designated leased capacity charges.
These amounts are recorded as revenue on a straight-line basis over the respective lease terms and represent the majority of the Groups future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases expected to be received: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2013 2012 Within one year 40.7 67.5 Within two to five years 5.4 After five years 2.3 40.7 75.2 INMARSAT PLC 114 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 31.
Capital risk management The following table summarises the capital of the Group: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2013 2012 As per Balance Sheet Cash and cash equivalents 144.3 332.1 Borrowings 1,957.1 1,821.4 Net debt 1,812.8 1,489.3 Equity attributable to shareholders of the parent 1,047.5 1,124.8 Capital 2,860.3 2,614.1 The Groups objective when managing its capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Group continually evaluates sources of capital and may repurchase, refinance, exchange or retire current or future borrowings and or debt securities from time to time in private or open-market transactions, or by any other means permitted by the terms and conditions of borrowing facilities and debt securities.
Additionally, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group uses a maximum ratio of net borrowings to EBITDA as an internal planning parameter and in regular forecasting and monitoring activities.
In addition, movements in cash and borrowings as well as total available liquidity are monitored regularly.
The net borrowing gross of deferred finance costs to EBITDA ratio for the year ended 31 December 2013 is 2.84 2012: 2.19.
The Groups liquidity is disclosed in note 3 d. No changes were made in the Groups objectives, policies or processes for managing capital in the years ended 31December 2013 and2012.
Financial instruments Treasury management and strategy The Groups treasury activities are managed by its corporate finance department under the direction of a Treasury Review Committee whose chairman is the Chief Financial Officer, and are consistent with Board-approved treasury policies and guidelines.
The overriding objective of treasury activities is to manage financial risk.
Key features of treasury management include: ensuring that the Group is in a position to fund its obligations in appropriate currencies as they fall due: maintaining adequate undrawn borrowing facilities: economically hedging both contracted and anticipated foreign currency cash flows on a minimum 12 months rolling basis with the option of covering exposures up to a maximum of three years forward: interest rate hedging: and maximising return on short-term investments based on counterparty limits and credit ratings.
Treasury activities are only transacted with counterparties who are approved relationship banks.
Treasury foreign exchange policy is implemented primarily through the use of forward purchases of foreign currencies.
The treasury department is, however, authorised to use purchased options, futures and other derivative instruments, but only to the extent that such instruments form part of the hedging policy so as to establish a known rate of exchange.
Having arranged the purchase of foreign currency in line with the anticipated requirement for that currency over each financial year, an average rate of exchange is calculated from the agreed currency transactions.
This average rate is applied as per requirements of IAS 21.
The policy is designed to minimise the impact of currency gains and losses in the Income Statement: gains and losses will arise to the extent that the level of actual payments in the period are different from those that were forecast.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 115 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 32.
Financial instruments continued Financial instruments by category The following table sets out the categorisation of financial assets and liabilities in terms of IAS 39: As at 31December2013 As at 31December2012 Derivatives Derivatives Loans and used for Loans and used for US$ in millions receivables hedging Total receivables hedging Total Assets as per Balance Sheet a Trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income 239.2 239.2 262.6 262.6 Cash and cash equivalents 144.3 144.3 332.1 332.1 Derivative financial instruments 12.8 12.8 6.4 6.4 383.5 12.8 396.3 594.7 6.4 601.1 a Consists of trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income see note 17.
As at 31December2013 As at 31December2012 Derivatives Other Derivatives Other used for financial used for financial US$ in millions hedging liabilities Total hedging liabilities Total Liabilities as per Balance Sheet Borrowings 1,957.1 1,957.1 1,821.4 1,821.4 a Trade payables, other payables and accruals 219.3 219.3 233.3 233.3 Derivative financial instruments 0.5 0.5 11.4 11.4 0.5 2,176.4 2,176.9 11.4 2,054.7 2,066.1 a Consists of trade payables, deferred consideration, other payables and accruals see note 20.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and net-settled derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying values as the impact of discounting is notsignificant.
As at 31December2013 Less than Between Between Over US$ in millions 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years Total a Borrowings 487.0 189.4 1,343.7 303.4 2,323.5 Trade payables, other payables and accruals 193.1 1.3 23.3 1.6 219.3 Derivative financial instruments 0.5 0.5 680.6 190.7 1,367.0 305.0 2,543.3 a I ncludes interest obligations on the Senior Notes due 2017, EIB Facility, Ex-Im Bank Facility and Convertible Bonds.
The interest obligations assume no changes in floating interest rates from the year end.
As at 31December2012 Less than Between Between Over US$ in millions 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years Total a Borrowings 136.5 450.8 1,354.2 380.1 2,321.6 Trade and other payables 207.6 1.6 1.8 22.3 233.3 Derivative financial instruments 11.4 11.4 355.5 452.4 1,356.0 402.4 2,566.3 a I ncludes interest obligations on the Senior Notes due 2017, EIB Facility, Ex-Im Bank Facility and Convertible Bonds.
The interest obligations do not take into account the impact of interest rate swaps and assume no changes in floating interest rates from the year end.
INMARSAT PLC 116 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 Net fair values of derivative financial instruments The Groups derivative financial instruments as at 31December2013 consist of forward foreign currency contracts, of which approximately 95% 2012: 90% are designated cash flow hedges.
The net fair values at the Balance Sheet date were: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2013 2012 Contracts with positive fair values: Forward foreign currency contracts designated cash flow hedges 12.1 6.2 Forward foreign currency contracts undesignated 0.7 0.2 Contracts with negative fair values: Forward foreign currency contracts designated cash flow hedges 0.5 2.0 Total forward exchange currency contracts 12.3 4.4 Interest rate swaps designated cash flow hedge 9.4 Total net fair value 12.3 5.0 Less non-current portion Forward foreign currency contracts designated cash flow hedges 3.6 Current portion 8.7 5.0 The full value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and, as a current asset or liability if the maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
The fair value of foreign exchange contracts performed by management are based upon a valuation provided by the counterparty and are classified as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 7.
The fair value of foreign exchange contracts is based upon the difference between the contract amount at the current forward rate at each period end and the contract amount at the contract rate, discounted at a variable risk-free rate at the period end.
The fair value of the interest rate swaps performed by management is based upon a valuation provided by the counterparty and are classified as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 7.
Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.
Forward foreign exchange The following table sets out the face value and fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding for the Group as at 31December2013 and 2012: As at 31December2013 Maturing Maturing between Face within 1 and 2 Fair value Outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts in millions value 1 year years US$ GBP contracts 99.7 74.7 25.0 12.6 Euro contracts 4.8 4.8 0.2 Canadian Dollar contracts $16.8 $16.8 0.5 12.3 As at 31December2012 Maturing Maturing between Face within 1 and 2 Fair value Outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts in millions value 1 year years US$ GBP contracts 63.5 63.5 3.3 Euro contracts 45.6 45.6 0.9 Canadian Dollar contracts $12.0 $12.0 0.2 4.4 INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 117 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 32.
Financial instruments continued Interest rate swap The following table details the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of interest rate swap contracts outstanding for the Group as at 31December2013 and 2012: Average contracted Notional fixed interest rate principal amount Fair value 2013 2012 2013 US$ 2012 US$ 2013 US$ 2012 US$ Outstanding floating for fixed contracts % % in millions in millions in millions in millions Less than one year 4.93% 200.0 9.4 200.0 9.4 Under the interest rate swaps held at 31 December 2012, the Group received quarterly floating interest three-month USD LIBOR to offset floating interest payable.
Gains or losses were reversed in the Income Statement when the swaps expired.
At 31December 2013, the Group had no interest rate swaps outstanding.
Non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities Non-derivative financial assets consist of cash at bank, short-term investments, trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income.
Non-derivative financial liabilities consist of borrowings, trade payables, deferred consideration, other payables and accruals.
Fair value of non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities With the exception of the Senior Notes due 2017 and Convertible Bonds, the fair values of all non-derivative financial instruments approximate to the carrying value in the Balance Sheet.
The following methods and assumptions have been used to determine fair values: The fair values of cash at bank, overdrafts and short-term deposits approximate their carrying values because of the short-term maturity of these instruments see note 16 : The fair value of trade and other receivables and payables, accrued income and costs, and deferred consideration approximate their carrying values see notes 17 and 20 respectively : The carrying amount of deferred satellite payments represents the present value of future payments discounted, using an appropriate rate, at the period end.
This carrying amount approximately equals fair value see note 19 : The Senior Notes due 2017 are reflected in the Balance Sheet as at 31December2013 net of unamortised arrangement costs and net issuance premium of US$8.7m and US$5.9m 2012: US$11.0m and US$7.5m, respectively see note 19.
The fair values of the Senior Notes due 2017 are based on the market price of the bonds as at 31December2013 and are reflected in the table below: The EIB Facility is reflected in the Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2013 net of unamortised arrangement costs of US$1.1m 2012:US$1.6m.
The fair value approximates the carrying value see note 19 : The Ex-Im Bank Facility is reflected in the Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2013 net of unamortised arrangement costs of US$18.1m 2012: US$16.3m.
The fair value approximates the carrying value see note 19 : and The liability component of the Convertible Bonds is reflected in the Balance Sheet as at 31December2013 on an amortised cost basis, net of unamortised arrangement costs of US$1.0m 2012: US$2.0m see note 19.
The fair value of the Convertible Bonds is based on the market price of the bonds as at 31December2013 and is reflected in the table below.
As at 31December2013 As at 31December2012 Carrying Fair value Carrying Fair value US$ in millions amount amount amount amount Senior Notes due 2017 850.0 885.6 850.0 912.7 Convertible Bonds 325.6 392.0 301.3 374.8 33.
Disposal groups held for sale On 1 August 2013, the Group announced a strategic partnership with RigNet, Inc. RigNet, a global provider of managed remote telecommunications solutions to the oil and gas industry, to offer GX and L-band services to the energy sector.
Under the terms of the agreement, RigNet became a GX distribution partner and entered into a five-year GX capacity pre-purchase agreement.
In connection with the agreement, the Group has agreed to sell the majority of its retail energy business to RigNet.
On 3February2014, following regulatory and other approvals, the Group announced completion of the sale.
The sale included the Groups microwave and WiMAX networks in the US Gulf of Mexico, VSAT interests in the UK, the US and Canada, telecommunications systems integration business operating worldwide and retail L-band energy satcoms business.
INMARSAT PLC 118 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 The assets and liabilities being transferred to RigNet as part of the transaction are presented at fair value as part of assets held for sale and liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale on the face of the Balance Sheet.
The major classes of assets and liabilities comprising the disposal group held for sale at 31 December 2013 are as follows: As at 31 December US$ in millions Note 2013 Intangible assets 14 1.3 Fixed assets 13 16.6 Inventories 4.8 Trade and other receivables 20.1 Total assets classified as held for sale 42.8 Trade and other payables 14.3 Provisions 21 2.5 Deferred income tax liabilities 22 1.0 Non-controlling interest 1.2 Total liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale 19.0 Net assets of disposal group 23.8 34.
Capital commitments The Group had authorised and contracted but not provided for capital commitments as at 31December2013 of US$713.3m 2012:US$740.3m.
These amounts primarily represent commitments in respect of the Groups GX programme.
Contingent liability The Group has received enquiries from Her Majestys Revenue and Customs HMRC in respect of financing arrangements which have been entered into in prior periods.
The potential tax liability in relation to these enquiries is estimated to be in the region of US$18m.
The Group has sought external advice and management does not believe that a material economic outflow is probable: therefore no provision has been recorded in these financial statements.
However, this disclosure has been made in light of the ongoing enquiries being made by HMRC.
No accurate estimation of the time required to settle this matter can currently be given.
Related party transactions In the normal course of operations Inmarsat Solutions engages in transactions with its equity-owned investees NTS Maritime Limited, Navarino Telecom SA and JSAT Mobile Communications Inc.
These transactions represent sales of airtime and equipment and are measured at the amounts exchanged.
Group revenue from the related parties for the 2013 financial year was US$31.3m, US$0.8m and US$19.4m, respectively 2012: US$22.7m, US$2.0m and US$18.5m, respectively.
The amount receivable from the related parties at 31December2013 was US$14.8m, $0.3m and US$3.1m, respectively 2012: US$14.2m, US$1.3m and US$3.3m, respectively.
Aggregate remuneration for key management personnel, being the Executive Staff including Executive Directors of the Company, during the year is as follows: US$ in millions 2013 2012 a Short-term employee benefits 10.4 9.7 Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.3 Termination benefits 0.5 a Share-based payment 10.3 7.5 Total remuneration 20.9 18.0 a Includes employers National Insurance or other social security contributions.
The amount owing to the Executive Staff including Executive Directors as at 31December 2013 and 2012 was US$3.4m and US$3.5m, respectively.
The post-employment benefits and defined benefit pension plans are related parties see note 28.
Management believes that all related party transactions were made on an arms length basis.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 119 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 37.
Principal subsidiary undertakings At 31 December 2013, the Company had investments in the following principal subsidiaries that have a significant impact on the consolidated results and total assets of the Group.
To avoid a statement of excessive length, details of subsidiaries and associates which are not significant have been omitted from this list.
A full list of subsidiaries and associates will be annexed to the Companys next annual return to be filed with the Registrar of Companies.
Interest in Interest in issued issued ordinary ordinary Country of share capital share capital incorporation and at 31 December at 31 December Principal activity operation 2013 2012 Inmarsat Finance plc Finance company England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Global Limited Satellite telecommunications England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Group Limited Holding company England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Investments Limited Holding company England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Leasing Two Limited Satellite leasing England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Navigation Ventures Limited Operating company England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Hellas Satellite Services SA Satellite telecommunications Greece 100% 100% Inmarsat Employment Company Limited Employment company Jersey 100% 100% Inmarsat Hawaii Inc. Satellite telecommunications USA 100% 100% Inmarsat Canada Holdings Inc. Holding company Canada 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions B. V. Operating company The Netherlands 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions US Inc Operating company USA 100% 100% Segovia, Inc. Operating company USA 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions Pte Limited Operating company Singapore 100% 100% Stratos Government Services Inc. Operating company USA 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions AS Operating company Norway 100% 100% a Inmarsat Mobile Networks Inc. Operating company USA 100% 100% Inmarsat New Zealand Limited Operating company New Zealand 100% 100% Stratos Offshore Services Company Operating company USA 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions Canada Inc Operating company Canada 100% 100% Moskovsky Teleport Operating company Russia 80% 80% Inmarsat Solutions Global Limited Operating company England and Wales 100% 100% TC Communications Pty Ltd Operating company Australia 100% a Stratos Mobile Networks Inc. was renamed Inmarsat Mobile Networks Inc. on 25 October 2013.
Events after the Balance Sheet date On 17 December 2013, the Group announced an agreement to acquire the mobile satellite communications business and substantiallyall of the related assets of Globe Wireless LLC Globe Wireless for a total consideration of US$45m.
Globe Wireless is a leading provider of value-added maritime communications services to the shipping market.
In the 12 months ended 30 June 2013, GlobeWireless reported revenues of US$91m and currently has an installed customer base of over 6,000 ships.
The acquisition of GlobeWireless will benefit Inmarsats Commercial Maritime business unit, with operating synergies and revenue growth expected from the acquisition.
The transaction closed on 2 January 2014 and therefore does not impact the 2013 financial results.
The acquisition will be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting in accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
The allocation of the purchase consideration has not been finalised and is expected to be completed in 2014.
In 2014, the operations of Globe Wireless will be integrated within the Groups Inmarsat Solutions business and Commercial Maritime business unit.
On 3 February 2014, the Group announced that, following regulatory and other approvals, the sale of the majority of the retail energy business to RigNet, Inc. has now been completed.
Subsequent to 31December2013, other than the events discussed above, there have been no other material events which would affect the information reflected in the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
INMARSAT PLC 120 Annual Report & Accounts 2013
