Forward-looking statements The Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 contain certain forward-looking statements as defined under US legislation section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of InterContinental Hotels Group and certain plans and objectives of the Board of Directors of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC with respect thereto.
Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements made in the Chairmans Statement and in the Chief Executive Officerss Review.
These forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts.
Forward-looking statements often use words such as anticipate, target, expect, estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe, or other words of similar meaning.
These statements are based on assumptions and assessments made by InterContinental Hotels Groups management in light of their experience and their perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors they believe to be appropriate.
By their nature, forward-looking statements are inherently predictive, speculative and involve risk and uncertainty.
Thereareanumber of factors that could cause actual results anddevelopments to differ materially from those expressed in, orimplied by, such forward-looking statements, including, but notlimited to: the risks of the effect of political and economic developments: the risk of events that adversely impact domestic orinternational travel: the risks of the hotel industry supply and demand cycle: the Group is subject to competitive and changing industry: the Groups dependency on a wide range ofexternal stakeholders and business partners: the risks related to identifying, securing and retaining franchise and management agreements: the risks in relation to changing technology and systems: the Groups reliance on the reputation of its brands and the protection of its intellectual property rights: the risks involved in the Groups reliance upon its proprietary reservations system and the risk of its failure and increased competition in reservations infrastructure: the risks related to information security and data privacy: the risks associated with safety, security and crisis management: the ability to acquire and retain the right people, skills and capability to manage growth and change: compliance with existing and changing regulations across numerous countries, territories and jurisdictions: the risk of litigation: the risks related to corporate responsibility: the risks associated with the Groups financial stability and its ability to borrow and satisfy debt covenants: and the risks associated with the Groups ability to maintain adequate insurance.
The main factors that could affect the business and financial results are described in the Strategic Report of the Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013.
Holiday Inn received the highest numerical score Designed and produced among mid-scale full service hotels in the by Addison Group proprietary J. D. Power 2011-2013 North America SM Hotel Guest Satisfaction Index Study.
net study based on responses from 68,787 guests measuring 4 mid-scale full service hotels and Managed by RR Donnelley measures opinions of guests who stayed in a This Report is printed on Satimatt Green hotel June 2012-May 2013.
Proprietary study results are based on experiences and perceptions which is manufactured using 75% of consumers surveyed July 2012-May 2013. post-consumer recycled fibre and25% Your experiences may vary.
Both the manufacturing mills and printer are ISO14001 and FSC certified.
188 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 InterContinental Davos, Switzerland 1777 1946 It all began in 1777 when William Bass opened InterContinental Hotels & Resorts a brewery in Burton-on-Trent in the UK.
In April 1946 Juan Trippe, the founder of Bass made its move into the hotel industry Pan American Airways, had a vision to bring in 1988, buying Holiday Inn International.
high-quality hotel accommodation to the By 2003 the business had changed from end of every Pan Am flight route.
This led to domestic brewer to international hospitality the first InterContinental being opened in retailer: InterContinental Hotels Group PLC.
1949, the Hotel Grande in Belm, Brazil.
From here InterContinental Hotels & Resorts expanded steadily to become the worlds first truly international luxury hospitality brand.
The brands ethos is to provide insightful, meaningful experiences that enhance our guests feeling that they are in a global club.
Bass acquired the InterContinental brand in 1998, adding it to our brand portfolio.
Front cover Crowne Plaza Resort, Xishuangbanna, 178 hotels: 60,103 rooms open People's Republic of China 51 hotels in the pipeline InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 www.
com InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Broadwater Park, Denham, Buckinghamshire UB9 5HR United Kingdom Tel 44 0 1895 512 000 Fax 44 0 1895 512 101 Web www.
com Annual Report and Form 20 -F 2013
