GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Accounting policies 2013 2012 2011 General information Group statement of comprehensive income $m $m $m This document constitutes the Annual Report and Financial Profit for the year 4 7 8 Statements in accordance with UK Listing Rules requirements Re-measurement gains, net of related tax and the Annual Report on Form 20-F in accordance with the US charge of $2m 2012 $1m, 2011 $1m 4 8 10 Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
In previous years the Group Tax related to pension contributions 1 2 issued separate documents.
Total comprehensive income for the year The Consolidated Financial Statements of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC the Group or IHG for the year ended 31 December 2013 2013 2012 2011 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Earnings per share cents cents cents Directors on 17 February 2014.
InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Basic 1.5 2.4 2.8 the Company is incorporated and domiciled in Great Britain and Diluted 1.5 2.4 2.7 registered in England and Wales.
There has been no change to previously reported retained Comparatives for 2011 earnings, balance sheet amounts or cash flows, other than The comparative information presented for the year ended consequential adjustments to the analysis of operating cash flows.
31 December 2011 is that previously issued on Form 20-F for that The Group has also adopted IAS 1 Amendment Presentation year which differs from the Consolidated Financial Statements of Items of Other Comprehensive Income, which changes issued to the UK listing authorities for 2011.
The difference arose the grouping of items presented in the Group statement of in respect of a litigation provision of $22m $13m net of tax which comprehensive income so that items which may be reclassified was recorded on Form 20-F in the year ended 31 December 2010 to profit or loss in the future are presented separately from but not in the UK Consolidated Financial Statements until the items that will never be reclassified.
The amendment affects following year.
An unfavourable court judgement on 23 February presentation only and has had no impact on the Groups financial 2011, between the authorisation of the respective documents position or performance.
UK Consolidated Financial Statements on 14 February 2011 and Form 20-F on 11 April 2011, resulted in the litigation provision In addition, with effect from 1 January 2013, the Group has being recorded as an adjusting post balance sheet event in the implemented IAS 28 Amendment Investments in Associates Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 issued and Joint Ventures, IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, on Form 20-F. IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities and IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
The adoption The respective numbers reported were as follows: of these standards has had no material impact on the Groups 2 2011 Financial Statements financial performance or position and there has been no 1 Form 20-F UK filing requirement to restate prior year comparatives.
IFRS 13 has Profit before tax $m 554 532 resulted in new disclosures which are provided in note 24.
Profit for the year $m 473 460 In accordance with IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Net assets $m 555 555 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments Basic earnings per ordinary to IFRS 7 additional disclosures have been made in note 18 share cents 163.7 159.2 regarding the Groups cash pooling arrangements.
Diluted earnings per ordinary share cents 159.8 155.4 Summary of significant accounting policies 1 These numbers form the basis of the comparatives included in this Basis of preparation document and exclude the litigation provision described above.
The Consolidated Financial Statements of IHG have been prepared 2 Before restatement for the adoption of IAS 19R Employee Benefits in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards seebelow.
IFRSs as issued by the IASB and in accordance with IFRS Changes in accounting policies asadopted by the European Union EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
With effect from 1 January 2013, the Group has adopted IAS 19 IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in certain respects from IFRS Revised Employee Benefits which introduces a number of as issued by the IASB.
However, the differences have no impact changes to accounting for defined benefit plans.
The key change on the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements for the that impacts the Group is the removal of expected returns on plan years presented.
assets from the income statement and its replacement with a requirement to recognise interest on the net defined benefit asset Presentational currency liability after any asset restrictions, calculated using the discount The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in millions rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation.
ofUS dollars following a management decision to change the reporting currency from sterling during 2008.
The change was made The impact of this change in accounting policy on the current to reflect the profile of the Groups revenue and operating profit which andprior year Financial Statements, which have been restated, are primarily generated in US dollars or US dollar-linked currencies.
isas follows: The currency translation reserve was set to nil at 1 January 2004 2013 2012 2011 ontransition to IFRS and this reserve is presented on the basis Group income statement $m $m $m that the Group has reported in US dollars since this date.
Administrative expenses 6 9 11 Equity share capital, the capital redemption reserve and shares Operating profit and profit before tax 6 9 11 held by employee share trusts are translated into US dollars at Tax 2 2 3 the rates of exchange on the last day of the period: the resultant Profit for the year 4 7 8 exchange differences are recorded in other reserves.
Group Financial Statements 111 Accounting policies continued The functional currency of the parent company remains sterling since buildings lesser of 50 years and unexpired term of lease: and this is a non-trading holding company located in the United Kingdom fixtures, fittings and equipment three to 25 years.
that has sterling denominated share capital and whose primary activity All depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis.
Residual value is is the payment and receipt of interest on sterling denominated external re-assessed annually.
Property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment when events Basis of consolidation or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not The Consolidated Financial Statements comprise the Financial be recoverable.
Assets that do not generate independent cash flows Statements of the parent company and entities controlled by the Group.
are combined into cash-generating units.
If carrying values exceed Control exists when the Group has: their estimated recoverable amount, the assets or cash-generating power over an investee i. e. existing rights that give it the current units are written down to the recoverable amount.
Recoverable ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee : amount is the greater of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with Value in use is assessed based on estimated future cash flows the investee: and discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment losses, and any subsequent All intra-group balances and transactions are eliminated reversals, are recognised in the income statement.
On adoption of IFRS, the Group retained previous revaluations of The assets, liabilities and results of those businesses acquired or property, plant and equipment which are included at deemed cost disposed of are consolidated for the period during which they were as permitted by IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International under the Groups control.
The Group operates a deferred compensation plan in the US Goodwill which allows certain employees to make additional provision for Goodwill arises on consolidation and is recorded at cost, being the retirement, through the deferral of salary with matching company excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value at the date of contributions.
Employees can draw down on the plan in certain limited acquisition of the Groups share of identifiable assets, liabilities and circumstances during employment.
The assets of the plan are held contingent liabilities.
With effect from 1 January 2010, transaction in a company-owned trust which is not consolidated as the relevant costs are expensed and therefore not included in the cost of activity of the trust, being the investment of the funds in the trust, acquisition.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at is directed by the participating employees of the plan and the cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
company has no exposure to the gains and losses resulting from Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually by comparing those investment decisions.
The assets of the trust are held solely for carrying values of cash-generating units with their recoverable the benefit of the participating employees and to pay plan expenses, amounts.
Impairment losses cannot be subsequently reversed.
other than in the case of a company insolvency in which case they can be claimed by the general creditors of the company.
At 31 December Intangible assets 2013, the trust had assets with a fair value of $135m 2012 $113m.
Software Acquired and internally developed software are capitalised on the Foreign currencies basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to functional software.
Costs are amortised over estimated useful lives of three currency at the exchange rates ruling on the dates of the transactions.
to five years on a straight-line basis.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated to the functional currency at the relevant rates of exchange Internally generated development costs are expensed unless ruling on the last day of the period.
Foreign exchange differences forecast revenues exceed attributable forecast development costs, arising on translation are recognised in the income statement except in which case they are capitalised and amortised over the estimated on foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge against a net useful life of the asset.
These are taken directly to the Management contracts currency translation reserve until the disposal of the net investment, When assets are sold and a purchaser enters into a franchise or at which time they are recycled against the gain or loss on disposal.
management contract with the Group, the Group capitalises as part The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill, of the gain or loss on disposal an estimate of the fair value of the are translated into US dollars at the relevant rates of exchange ruling contract entered into.
The value of management contracts is on the last day of the period.
The revenues and expenses of foreign amortised over the life of the contract which ranges from six to operations are translated into US dollars at average rates of 50 years on a straight-line basis.
The exchange differences arising on the Other intangible assets retranslation are taken directly to the currency translation reserve.
Amounts paid to hotel owners to secure management contracts and On disposal of a foreign operation, the cumulative amount recognised franchise agreements are capitalised and normally amortised over the in the currency translation reserve relating to that particular foreign shorter of the contracted period and 10 years on a straight-line basis.
operation is recycled against the gain or loss on disposal.
Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or Property, plant and equipment changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less depreciation and not be recoverable.
Borrowing costs Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
Borrowing costs attributable to the acquisition or construction of Land is not depreciated.
All other property, plant and equipment are property, plant and equipment or in respect of software projects depreciated to a residual value over their estimated useful lives, namely: that necessarily take a substantial period of time to prepare for 112 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION their intended use, or sale, are capitalised as part of the asset cost.
Cash and cash equivalents Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits.
in connection with the borrowing of funds.
All borrowing costs relating Cash equivalents are short-term highly liquid investments with to projects commencing before 1 January 2009 were expensed.
an original maturity of three months or less that are readily Associates and joint ventures convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant risk of changes in value.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the In the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents are shown financial and operating policy decisions of the entity, but does not net of short-term overdrafts which are repayable on demand and have control or joint control over those policies.
form an integral part of the Groups cash management.
A joint venture exists when two or more parties have joint control Assets held for sale over, and rights to the net assets of, the venture.
Joint control is Non-current assets and associated liabilities are classified as held for the contractually agreed sharing of control which only exists when sale when their carrying amount will be recovered principally through decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous a sale transaction rather than continuing use and a sale is highly consent of the parties sharing control.
probable and expected to complete within one year.
For a sale to be Associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity highly probable, management need to be committed to a plan to sell method unless the associate or joint venture is classified as held for the asset and the asset must be actively marketed for sale at a price sale.
Under the equity method, the Groups investment is recorded that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value.
at cost adjusted by the Groups share of post-acquisition profits and Assets designated as held for sale are held at the lower of carrying losses and other movements in the investees reserves.
When the amount at designation and fair value less costs to sell.
Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate or joint venture, the Groups carrying amount is reduced to $nil and Depreciation is not charged against property, plant and equipment recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent classified as held for sale.
that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or Financial liabilities made payments on behalf of an associate or joint venture.
Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective Financial assets interest rate method.
A financial liability is derecognised when the The Group classifies its financial assets into one of the two following obligation under the liability expires, is discharged orcancelled.
categories: loans and receivables or available-for-sale financial Trade payables assets.
Management determines the classification of financial assets Trade payables are non-interest-bearing and are stated at their on initial recognition and they are subsequently held at amortised cost nominal value.
loans and receivables or fair value available-for-sale financial assets.
Interest on loans and receivables is calculated using the effective Bank and other borrowings interest rate method and is recognised in the income statement as Bank and other borrowings are initially recognised at the fair interest income.
Changes in fair values of available-for-sale financial value of the consideration received less directly attributable assets are recorded directly in equity within the unrealised gains and transaction costs.
They are subsequently measured at amortised losses reserve.
On disposal, the accumulated fair value adjustments cost.
Finance charges, including the transaction costs and any recognised in equity are recycled to the income statement.
discount or premium on issue, are recognised in the income Dividends from available-for-sale financial assets are recognised statement using the effective interest rate method.
in the income statement as other operating income and expenses.
Borrowings are classified as non-current when the repayment date is Financial assets are assessed for impairment at each period-end more than 12 months from the period-end date or where they are date.
In the case of an equity investment classified as available-fordrawn on a facility with more than 12 months to expiry.
sale, a significant or prolonged decline in fair value below cost is Derivative financial instruments and hedging evidence that the asset is impaired.
If an available-for-sale financial Derivatives are initially recognised and subsequently re-measured asset is impaired, the difference between original cost and fair value at fair value.
The method of recognising the re-measurement is transferred from equity to the income statement to the extent of any depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging cumulative loss recorded in equity, with any excess charged directly instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Subsequent impairment reversals relating to previously impaired equity instruments are recorded in equity.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income and the unrealised gains Inventories and losses reserve to the extent that the hedges are effective.
When the Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
hedged item is recognised, the cumulative gains and losses on the Trade receivables related hedging instrument are reclassified to the income statement.
Trade receivables are recorded at their original amount less provision Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as net investment for impairment.
It is the Groups policy to provide for 100% of the hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income and the previous months aged receivables balances which are more than currency translation reserve to the extent that the hedges are 180 days past due.
Adjustments to the policy may be made due to effective.
The cumulative gains and losses remain in equity until specific or exceptional circumstances when collection is no longer a foreign operation is sold, at which point they are reclassified to considered probable.
The carrying amount of the receivable is the income statement.
reduced through the use of a provision account and movements in the provision are recognised in the income statement within cost of Changes in the fair value of derivatives which have either not sales.
When a previously provided trade receivable is uncollectable, beendesignated as hedging instruments or relate to the ineffective it is written off against the provision.
portion of hedges are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Group Financial Statements 113 Accounting policies continued Documentation outlining the measurement and effectiveness of recorded at the amount net of the tax.
A liability is also recorded for any hedging arrangements is maintained throughout the life of the any such tax that would be payable in respect of funding commitments hedge relationship.
based on the accounting assumption that the related payments increase the asset.
Interest arising from currency derivatives and interest rate swaps isrecorded in either financial income or expenses over the term of The service cost of providing pension benefits to employees, together the agreement, unless the accounting treatment for the hedging with the net interest expense or income for the year, is charged to the relationship requires the interest to be taken to reserves.
income statement within administration expenses.
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit asset Self insurance or liability, after any asset restriction.
Past service costs and gains, Liabilities in respect of self insured risks include projected settlements which are the change in the present value of the defined benefit for known and incurred but not reported claims.
Projected settlements obligation for employee service in prior periods resulting from plan are estimated based on historical trends and actuarial data.
amendments, are recognised immediately the plan amendment occurs.
Provisions Re-measurements comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return on Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligationas plan assets excluding amounts included in net interest and changes a result of a past event, it is probable that a payment will be made and in the amount of any asset restrictions.
Actuarial gains and losses a reliable estimate of the amount payable can bemade.
If the effect of may result from: differences between the actuarial assumptions the time value of money is material, theprovision is discounted.
underlying the plan liabilities and actual experience during the year An onerous contract provision is recognised when the unavoidable or changes in the actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of the costs of meeting the obligations under a contract exceed the plan liabilities.
Re-measurement gains and losses, and taxation economic benefits expected to be received under it.
thereon, are recognised in other comprehensive income and are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods.
In respect of litigation, provision is made when management consider it probable that payment may occur even though the defence of the Actuarial valuations are normally carried out every three years and related claim may still be ongoing through the court process.
are updated for material transactions and other material changes in circumstances including changes in market prices and interest rates Taxes up to the end of the reporting period.
Current tax Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior Revenue recognition periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered Revenue arises from the sale of goods and provision of services from or paid to the tax authorities including interest.
The tax rates where these activities give rise to economic benefits received and and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are receivable by the Group on its own account and result in increases enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period.
Deferred tax Revenue is derived from the following sources: franchise fees: Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised in respect of management fees: owned and leased properties and other temporary differences between the tax base and carrying value revenues which are ancillary to the Groups operations, of assets and liabilities including accelerated capital allowances, including technology fee income.
unrelieved tax losses, unremitted profits from subsidiaries, Generally, revenue represents sales excluding VAT and similar gains rolled over into replacement assets, gains on previously taxes of goods and services, net of discounts, provided in the revalued properties and other short-term temporary differences.
normal course of business and recognised when services have Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded been rendered.
The following is a description of the composition as probable that the deductible temporary differences can be of revenues of the Group.
The recoverability of all deferred tax assets is re-assessed Franchise fees received in connection with the license of the at the end of each reporting period.
Groups brand names, usually under long-term contracts with Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the hotel owner.
The Group charges franchise royalty fees as a the periods in which the asset or liability will be settled, based on rates percentage of rooms revenue.
Revenue is earned and recognised enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period.
Retirement benefits Management fees earned from hotels managed by the Group, Defined contribution plans usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged to the income Management fees include a base fee, generally a percentage of hotel revenue, which is earned and recognised on a monthly basis statement as they fall due.
and an incentive fee, generally based on the hotels profitability or Defined benefit plans cash flows and recognised when the related performance criteria Plan assets, including qualifying insurance policies, are measured at are met under the terms of the contract.
fair value and plan liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis, using the projected unit credit method and discounting at an interest rate Owned and leased primarily derived from hotel operations, equivalent to the current rate of return on a high-quality corporate bond including the rental of rooms and food and beverage sales from of equivalent currency and term to the plan liabilities.
The difference owned and leased hotels operated under the Groups brand names.
between the value of plan assets and liabilities at the period-end date is Revenue is recognised when rooms are occupied and food and the amount of surplus or deficit recorded in the statement of financial beverages are sold.
position as an asset or liability.
An asset is recognised when the Franchise fees and management fees include liquidated damages employer has an unconditional right to use the surplus at some point received from the early termination of contracts.
during the life of the plan or on its wind-up.
If a refund would be subject to a tax other than income tax, as is the case in the UK, the asset is 114 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Share-based payments Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is identical assets or liabilities.
measured by reference to fair value at the date at which the right Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a to the shares is granted.
Fair value is determined by an external significant effect on the recorded fair value are valuer using option pricing models.
observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which any observable market data.
performance or service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the Further disclosures on the particular valuation techniques used award vesting date.
by theGroup are provided in note 24.
The income statement charge for a period represents the movement in For impairment testing purposes and where significant assets such as cumulative expense recognised at the beginning and end of that period.
property are valued by reference to fair value less costs to sell, an No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except external valuation will normally be obtained using professional valuers for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting who have appropriate market knowledge, reputation and independence.
condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not Exceptional items the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other The Group discloses certain financial information both including performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
The presentation of information The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 excluding exceptional items allows a better understanding of the Share-based Payment in respect of equity-settled awards and underlying trading performance of the Group and provides consistency has applied IFRS 2 only to equity-settled awards granted after with the Groups internal management reporting.
Exceptional items 7 November 2002 that had not vested before 1 January 2005. are identified by virtue of either their size or nature so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess underlying trends Leases in financial performance.
Exceptional items can include, but are Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a not restricted to, gains and losses on the disposal of assets, straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
impairment charges and reversals, restructuring costs and the Assets held under finance leases, which transfer to the Group release of tax provisions.
substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of Treasury shares the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease, with a Own shares repurchased by the Company and not cancelled treasury corresponding liability being recognised for the fair value of the leased shares are recognised at cost and deducted from retained earnings.
asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments.
If reissued, any excess of consideration over carrying amount is Lease payments are apportioned between the reduction of the lease recognised in the share premium reserve.
liability and finance charges in the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Critical accounting policies and the use of judgements, Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter estimates and assumptions of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
In determining and applying the Groups accounting policies, Disposal of non-current assets management are required to make judgements, estimates and The Group recognises sales proceeds and any related gain or loss on assumptions.
An accounting policy is considered to be critical if its disposal on completion of the sales process.
In determining whether selection or application could materially affect the reported amounts the gain or loss should be recorded, the Group considers whether it: of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of has a continuing managerial involvement to the degree associated revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Management with asset ownership: consider accounting for the System Fund to be a critical judgement has transferred the significant risks and rewards associated with and that critical estimates and assumptions are used in impairment asset ownership: and testing and for measuring the loyalty programme liability, retirement can reliably measure and will actually receive the proceeds.
and other post-employment obligations, tax assets and liabilities, and Fair value measurement litigation provisions, as discussed in further detail below.
Estimates The Group measures available-for-sale equity securities and and assumptions are evaluated by management using historical derivatives at fair value on a recurring basis and other assets when experience and other factors believed to be reasonable based on impaired by reference to fair value less costs to sell.
Actual results could differ under different fair value of other financial assets and liabilities require disclosure.
policies, judgements, estimates and assumptions or due to unforeseen circumstances.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market System Fund in addition to management or franchise fees, hotels participants.
Fair value is measured by reference to the principal within the IHG System pay cash assessments and contributions which market for the asset or liability assuming that market participants act are collected by IHG for specific use within the System Fund the Fund.
in their economic best interests.
The Fund also receives proceeds from the sale of IHG Rewards Club points.
IHG exerts significant influence over the operation of the Fund, The fair value of a non-financial asset assumes the asset is used in its however the Fund is managed for the benefit of hotels in the System highest and best use, either through continuing ownership or by selling it.
with the objective of driving revenues for the hotels.
The Fund is used The Group uses valuation techniques that maximise the use of relevant to pay for marketing, the IHG Rewards Club loyalty programme and observable inputs using the following valuation hierarchy: the global reservation system.
The Fund is planned to operate at breakeven with any short-term timing surplus or deficit carried in the Group statement of financial position within working capital.
Group Financial Statements 115 Accounting policies continued As all Fund income is designated for specific purposes and does Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans accounting for not result in a profit or loss for the Group, the revenue recognition pensions and other post-employment benefit plans requires the Group criteria as outlined in the accounting policy above are not met and to make assumptions including, but not limited to, discount rates, therefore the income and expenses of the Fund are not included in rates of inflation, life expectancies and healthcare costs.
The use of the Group income statement.
different assumptions could have a material effect on the accounting values of the relevant liabilities which could result in a material change The assets and liabilities relating to the Fund are included in the to the cost of such liabilities as recognised in the income statement appropriate headings in the Group statement of financial position as over time.
These assumptions are subject to annual review and are the related legal, but not beneficial, rights and obligations rest with determined with the assistance of an external actuary.
These assets and liabilities include the IHG Rewards Club analysis to changes in the key assumptions is included in note 26. liability, short-term timing surpluses and deficits and any receivables and payables related to the Fund.
On 15 August 2013, the UK defined benefit plan completed a buy-in transaction whereby the assets of the plan were invested in a bulk The cash flows relating to the Fund are reported within cash flow insurance annuity contract that fully insures the benefits payable to from operations in the Group statement of cash flows due to the the members of the plan.
As the contract has been structured to enable close interrelationship between the Fund and the trading the plan to move to full buy-out following which the insurance company operations of the Group.
would become directly responsible for the pension payments and the Further information on the Fund is included in note 34. intention is to proceed on this basis, the buy-in transaction has been accounted for as a settlement with the loss arising of $147m recorded in Loyalty programme the hotel loyalty programme, IHG Rewards the income statement as an exceptional item.
An acceptable alternative Club, enables members to earn points, funded through hotel accounting treatment would have been to record the loss as an actuarial assessments, during each qualifying stay at an IHG branded hotel loss in other comprehensive income.
and redeem points at a later date for free accommodation or other benefits.
The future redemption liability is calculated by multiplying Income taxes deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it the number of points expected to be redeemed by the redemption cost is regarded as probable that deductible temporary differences can be per point.
On an annual basis the Group engages an external actuary realised.
The Group estimates deferred tax assets and liabilities based who uses statistical formulas to assist in the estimate of the number on current tax laws and rates, and in certain cases, business plans, of points that will never be redeemed breakage.
Actuarial gains and including managements expectations regarding the manner and timing losses on the future redemption liability are borne by the System Fund of recovery of the related assets.
Changes in these estimates may affect and any resulting changes in the liability would correspondingly adjust the amount of deferred tax liabilities or the valuation of deferred tax the amount of short-term timing surpluses and deficits held in the assets and therefore the tax charge in the income statement.
Group statement of financial position.
The future redemption liability, Provisions for tax liabilities require judgements on the interpretation of which is included in trade and other payables, was $649m at tax legislation, developments in case law and the potential outcomes of 31 December 2013.
Based on the conditions existing at the balance tax audits and appeals which may be subject to significant uncertainty.
sheet date, a 5% decrease in the breakage estimate would increase Therefore the actual results may vary from expectations resulting in this liability by approximately $31m.
adjustments to provisions, the valuation of deferred tax assets, cash tax Impairment testing intangible assets, property, plant and settlements, and therefore the tax charge in the income statement.
equipment are tested for impairment when events or circumstances Exceptional tax charges and credits have arisen in 2013, 2012 and 2011 indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable.
Goodwill is as explained in note 7. subject to an impairment test on an annual basis or more frequently if there are indicators of impairment.
Assets that do not generate Litigation from time to time, the Group is subject to legal independent cash flows are combined into cash-generating units.
proceedings the ultimate outcome of each being always subject to many uncertainties inherent in litigation.
A provision for litigation The impairment testing of individual assets or cash-generating is made when it is considered probable that a payment will be units requires an assessment of the recoverable amount of the made and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
If the carrying value of the asset or Significant judgment is made when evaluating, amongst other cash-generating unit exceeds its estimated recoverable amount, factors, the probability of unfavourable outcome and the ability the asset or cash-generating unit is written down to its recoverable to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of potential loss.
Recoverable amount is the greater of fair value less costs Litigation provisions are reviewed at each accounting period and to sell and value in use.
Value in use is assessed based on estimated revisions made for changes in facts and circumstances.
future cash flows discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that is based on the Groups weighted average cost of New standards issued but not effective capital adjusted to reflect the risks specific to the business model and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement territory of the cash-generating unit or asset being tested.
The outcome introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial of such an assessment is subjective, and the result sensitive to the assets and financial liabilities and, when finalised, willaddress hedge assumed future cash flows to be generated by the cash-generating accounting and impairment of financial assets.
The Group will assess units or assets and discount rates applied in calculating the value in use.
the impacts when the final standard is issued.
The effective date for At 31 December 2013, the Group had intangible assets of $438m and IFRS 9 is not expected to be before 1January 2017. property, plant and equipment of $1,169m, none of which were subject The amendments to existing accounting standards that are effective to an impairment charge during the year.
In respect of those assets from 1 January 2014, Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial requiring an impairment test and depending on how recoverable Liabilities Amendments to IAS 32 and Recoverable Amount amount was assessed, neither a 10% reduction in fair value or Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets Amendments to IAS 36, estimated future cash flows would have resulted in an impairment loss.
are not expected to have a material impact on the Groups reported Information on impairment testing of goodwill, which had a net book income or financial position.
value of $80m at 31 December 2013, is included in note 12.
116 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
