Glossary adjusted currency swap excluding the effect of exceptional items and any relevant tax.
an exchange of a deposit and a borrowing, each denominated in a different currency, for an agreed periodof time.
ADR an American Depositary Receipt, being a receipt evidencing title derivatives to an American Depositary Share ADS.
a financial instrument used to reduce risk, the price of which is derived from an underlying asset, index or rate.
ADR Depositary JPMorgan JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. discontinued operations hotels or operations sold or those classified as held for sale when ADS the results relate to a separate line of business, geographical area an American Depositary Share as evidenced by an American of operations, or where there is a co-ordinated plan to dispose of a Depositary Receipt, being a registered negotiable security, separate line of business or geographical area of operations.
listed on the New York Stock Exchange, representing one 194 ordinary share of 14 pence each of theCompany.
Employee Engagement survey 329 twice a year, we ask our employees and those who work in our AGM managed hotels excluding our joint venture hotels to participate in Annual General Meeting.
an Employee Engagement survey, to measure employee engagement.
AMEA EU Asia, Middle East and Africa.
APP euro or Annual Performance Plan.
the currency of the European Economic and MonetaryUnion.
Articles exceptional items the articles of association of the Company for the time being items which are disclosed separately because of their size inforce.
average daily rate or average room rate extended-stay rooms revenue divided by the number ofroom nights sold.
hotels designed for guests staying forperiods of time longer than basic earnings per ordinaryshare a fewnights and tending to have a higherproportion of suites than profit available for IHG equity holders divided by the weighted normalhotels Staybridge Suites, Candlewood Suites.
average numberof ordinary shares in issue during the year.
fee margin capital expenditure operating profit as a percentage of revenue, excluding revenue and purchases of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, operating profit from owned and leased hotels, managed leases associate and joint venture investments and other financial assets.
cash-generating units CGUs fee revenue the smallest identifiable groups of assets that generate cash Group revenue excluding revenue fromowned and leased hotels, inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from managedleases and significant liquidated damages.
other assets, or groups ofassets.
franchisee Code operator who uses a brand under licence from the brand owner, IHG.
UK Corporate Governance Code issued in September 2012 franchisor bythe Financial Reporting Council in theUK.
brand owner, IHG, who licenses brands for use by operators.
Companies Act goodwill the Companies Act 2006, as amended from time to time.
the difference between the consideration given for a business and Company the total of the fair values of the separable assets and liabilities InterContinental Hotels Group PLC.
comparable RevPAR Group or IHG a comparison for a grouping of hotels that have traded in all the Company and its subsidiaries.
months in both financial years being compared.
Principally Guest Heartbeat excludes new hotels, hotels closed for major refurbishment IHGs guest satisfaction measurement tool to measure brand and hotels sold in either of the two years.
constant currency hedging a current year value translated using theprevious years the reduction of risk, normally in relationto foreign currency or exchangerates.
interestrate movements, by making offsetting commitments.
contingencies IASB liabilities that are contingent upon the occurrence of one or more International Accounting StandardsBoard.
ICETUS continuing operations InterContinental Executive Top-upScheme.
186 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION IC Plan rooms revenue InterContinental Hotels UK Pension Plan.
revenue generated from the sale of room nights.
IFRS royalty revenues International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU rooms revenue that a franchisee pays tothe brand owner for use and issued by the IASB.
IHG System SCETUS Hotels operating under franchise and management agreements Six Continents Executive Top-Up Scheme.
together with IHG owned and leased hotels.
SEC IHG System size US Securities and ExchangeCommission.
the number of hotels rooms franchised, managed, owned or Six Continents leased by IHG.
Six Continents Limited: previously Six Continents PLC and interest rate swap re-registered as a private limited company on 6 June 2005. an agreement to exchange fixed for floating interest rate streams sterling or pounds sterling, pence or p or vice versa on a notional principal.
the pound sterling, the currency of the United Kingdom.
liquidated damages subsidiary undertaking payments received in respect of the early termination of a company over which the Group exercises control.
management and franchise contracts, where applicable.
system contribution to revenue LTIP per cent of rooms revenue delivered through IHGs direct and Long Term Incentive Plan.
managed leases System Fund or Fund properties structured for legal reasonsas operating leases assessment fees and contributions collected from hotels within but with thesame characteristics as management contracts.
the IHG System for the specific use of marketing, the IHG Rewards management contract Club loyalty programme and the global reservations system.
a contract to operate a hotel on behalf ofthe hotel owner.
technology income market capitalisation income received from hotels under franchise and management the value attributed to a listed company by multiplying its share agreements for the use of IHGs proprietary reservations system.
price by the number of shares in issue.
total gross revenue net debt total rooms revenue from franchised hotels and total hotel revenue borrowings less cash and cash equivalents, including the from managed, owned and leased hotels.
exchangeelement of the fair value of currency swaps hedging Total Shareholder Return or TSR theborrowings.
the theoretical growth in value of ashareholding over a period, net rooms supply byreferenceto the beginning and endingshare price, and net total number of IHG hotel rooms.
assuming that gross dividends, including special dividends, are reinvested to purchase additional units of the equity.
NYSE New York Stock Exchange.
occupancy rate rooms occupied by hotel guests, expressed as a percentage of UK GAAP rooms that are available.
United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
ordinary share UK DB Plan from 4 June 2007 until 8 October 2012, the ordinary shares of the defined benefit section of the IC Plan.
29 47 13 pence each in the Company: and following 9 October 2012, UK DC Plan 194 329 the ordinary shares of 14 pence each in the Company.
the defined contribution section of the IC Plan.
owner US the ultimate owner of the hotel property.
the United States of America.
pipeline US 401 k Plan hotels rooms that will enter the IHG System at a future date.
A new the Defined Contribution 401 k plan.
hotel only enters the pipeline once a contract has been signed and the appropriate fees paid.
In rare circumstances, a hotel will not US Deferred Compensation Plan open for reasons such as the financing being withdrawn.
the Defined Contribution Deferred Compensation Plan.
RevPAR or revenue per availableroom US dollars, US$, $ or rooms revenue divided by the number of room nights that are the currency of the United States ofAmerica.
available can be mathematically derived from occupancy rate working capital multiplied by average daily rate.
the sum of inventories, receivables andpayables of a trading room count nature, excluding financing and taxation items.
number of rooms franchised, managed, owned or leased by IHG.
