Group information History and developments Following separation, the Group has undertaken an asset-disposal programme, realising, by the end of 2013, proceeds of $6 billion The Company was incorporated and registered in England and from the sale of 186 hotels.
Of these 186 hotels, 167 remained in the Wales with registered number 5134420 on 21 May 2004 as a limited IHG System through either franchise or management agreements.
company under the Companies Act 1985 with the name Hackremco The asset-disposal programme has significantly reduced the capital No.
In 2004 05, as part of a scheme of arrangement requirements of the Group whilst largely retaining the hotels in the to facilitate the return of capital to shareholders, the following IHG System.
structural changes were made to the Group: i on 24 March 2005 Hackremco No.
2154 Limited changed its name to A small number of hotels have been sold since the end of 2012, New InterContinental Hotels Group Limited: ii on 27 April 2005 the most significant of which are set out below.
New InterContinental Hotels Group Limited re-registered as a public Recent acquisitions and divestitures limited company and changed its name to New InterContinental The Group agreed to dispose of the InterContinental Mark Hotels Group PLC: and iii on 27 June 2005 New InterContinental Hopkins San Francisco for $120 million in cash in February 2014: Hotels Group PLC changed its name to InterContinental Hotels the Group announced its agreement to dispose of 80 per cent Group PLC and became holding company of the Group.
of its interest in the InterContinental New York Barclay for The Group, formerly known as Bass and, more recently, $240 million on 19 December 2013.
TheGroup will continue to SixContinents, was historically a conglomerate operating as, hold the remaining 20 per cent interest by wayof a joint venture: among other things, a brewer, soft drinks manufacturer, hotelier, the Group disposed of the InterContinental London Park Lane on leisure operator and restaurant, pub and bar owner.
In the last 1 May 2013 for 301.5 million $469 million : several years, the Group has undergone a major transformation the Group also divested a number of investments for total inits operations and organisation, as a result of the separation proceeds of $41 million in 2013: and asdiscussed below and a number of significant disposals during the Group acquired three existing hotels, which are being this period, which has narrowed the scope of its business.
On 15 April 2003, following shareholder and regulatory approval, Capital expenditure SixContinents PLC as it then was separated into two new listed Capital expenditure in 2013 totalled $269 million compared with groups, InterContinental Hotels Group PLC as it then was $133 million in 2012 and $194 million in 2011: comprising the hotels and soft drinks businesses and Mitchells & Butlers plc comprising a retail and standard commercial at 31 December 2013 capital committed, being contracts placed property developmentsbusiness.
for expenditure on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets not provided for in the Group Financial Statements, The Group disposed of its interests in the soft drinks business totalled $83 million: and by way of an initial public offering of Britvic Britannia Soft the Group has also committed to invest up to $61 million in Drinks Limited for the period up to 18 November 2005, and three joint venture arrangements, of which $41 million had thereafter, Britannia SD Holdings Limited renamed Britvic plc been spent at 31 December 2013. on 21 November 2005, which became the holding company of the Britvic Group on 18November 2005, a manufacturer and distributor of soft drinks in the UK, in December 2005.
Risk Factors The Group is subject to a variety of inherent risks which may have an adverse impact on the business operations, financial condition, turnover, profits, brands and reputation.
The following section describes the main risks that could materially affect the Groups business.
The risks below are not the only ones that the Group faces.
Some risks are not yet known to the Company and some that the Company does not currently believe to be material could later turn out to be material.
The risk factors below are listed in accordance with the strategic, tactical and operational risks to ensure weve thought holistically about the possible risks that could impact the Group.
These should be considered in connection with any financial and forward-looking information in this Annual Report and Form 20-F and the cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements contained on page 188.
Strategic risks The Group is exposed to the risks of political and economic developments The Group is exposed to political, economic and financial market developments such as recession, inflation and availability of credit and currency fluctuations that could lower revenues and reduce income.
The current outlook for 2014 may worsen due to escalating impacts of the US national debt, slowing pace of growth and political stability in China, uncertainty in some eurozone countries and unrest in the Middle East.
The interconnected nature of economies suggests any of these or other events could trigger a recession which reduces leisure and business travel to and from affected countries and adversely affects room rates and or occupancy levels and other income-generating activities.
This may result in deterioration of results of operations and potentially reduce the value of properties in affected economies.
The owners or potential owners of hotels franchised or managed by the Group face similar risks which could adversely impact their solvency and the Groups ability to retain and secure franchise or management agreements.
Specifically, the Group is most exposed to the US market and, accordingly, is particularly susceptible to adverse changes in the US economy as well as the US dollar.
In addition to trading conditions, the economic outlook also affects the availability of capital to current and potential owners, which could impact existing operations and health of the pipeline.
164 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The Group is exposed to the risk of events that adversely impact domestic or international travel The room rates and occupancy levels of the Group could be adversely impacted by events that reduce domestic or international travel, such as actual or threatened acts of terrorism or war, political or civil unrest, epidemics, travel-related accidents, travel-related industrial action, increased transportation and fuel costs and natural disasters, resulting in reduced worldwide travel or other local factors impacting individual hotels.
A decrease in the demand for hotel rooms as a result of such events may have an adverse impact on the Groups operations and financial results.
In addition, inadequate preparation, contingency planning or recovery capability in relation to a major incident or crisis may impact life safety, prevent operational continuity and consequently impact the value of our brands and or the reputation of the Group.
The Group is exposed to the risks of the hotel industry supply and demand cycle The future operating results of the Group could be adversely affected by industry overcapacity by number of rooms and weak demand due, in part, to the cyclical nature of the hotel industry, or other differences between planning assumptions and actual operating conditions.
Reductions in room rates and occupancy levels would adversely impact the results of Group operations.
The Group is subject to a competitive and changing industry The Group operates in a competitive industry and must compete effectively against traditional competitors such as other global hotel chains, local hotel companies and independent hotels to win the loyalty of guests, employees and owners.
The competitive landscape also includes other types of businesses, such as web-based booking channels which include online travel agents and intermediaries, and alternative sources of accommodation such as private property.
Failure to compete effectively in traditional and emerging areas of the business could impact the Groups market share, system size, profitability and relationships with owners and guests.
The Group is dependent upon a wide range of external stakeholders and business partners The Group is dependent upon the performance, behaviours and reputation of a wide range of business partners and external stakeholders including, but not limited to, owners, contractors, lenders, suppliers, vendors, joint venture partners, agents, third-party intermediaries and other business partners.
Further, the number and complexity of interdependencies with stakeholders is evolving.
Breakdown in relationships, poor vendor performance, insolvency, stakeholder behaviours or adverse reputations could impact on the Groups performance and competitiveness, delivery of projects, guest experiences or the reputation of the Group or its brands.
Tactical risks The Group is exposed to a variety of risks related to identifying, securing and retaining franchise and management agreements The Groups growth strategy depends on its success in identifying, securing and retaining franchise and management agreements.
This is an inherent risk for the hotel industry and franchise business model.
Competition with other hotel companies may generally reduce the number of suitable franchise, management and investment opportunities offered to the Group and increase the bargaining position of property owners seeking to become a franchisee or engage a manager.
The terms of new franchise or management agreements may not be as favourable as current arrangements: the Group may not be able to renew existing arrangements on similarly favourable terms or at all.
There can also be no assurance that the Group will be able to identify, retain or add franchisees to the IHG System or to secure management contracts.
For example, the availability of suitable sites, market saturation, planning and other local regulations or the availability and affordability of finance may all restrict the supply of suitable hotel development opportunities under franchise or management agreements.
In connection with entering into franchise or management agreements, the Group may be required to make investments in, or guarantee the obligations of, third parties or guarantee minimum income to third parties.
There are also risks that significant franchisees or groups of franchisees may have interests that conflict, or are not aligned, with those of the Group including, for example, the unwillingness of franchisees to support brand improvement initiatives.
This could result in franchisees prematurely terminating contracts which would adversely impact the overall IHG System size and the Groups financial performance.
The Group is exposed to inherent risks in relation to changing technology and systems The Group is reliant upon certain technologies, systems and platforms for the running of its business, particularly those which are highly integrated with business operational processes.
Some of these are dependent upon the products and services of third-party technology providers.
The failure of any such third-party provider to provide products and or perform services could materially adversely impact the Groups business.
The Group may also have to make substantial additional investments in new technologies or systems to remain competitive.
Failing to keep pace with developments in technologies or systems may put the Group at a competitive disadvantage.
The technologies or systems that the Group chooses may not be commercially successful or the technology or system strategy employed may not be sufficiently aligned with the needs of the business or responsive to changes in business strategy.
As a result, the Group could adversely affect guest experiences, lose customers, fail to attract new customers, incur substantial costs or face other losses.
Operational risks The Group is reliant on the reputation of its brands and the protection of its intellectual property rights Any event that materially damages the reputation of one or more of the Groups existing or new brands and or fails to sustain the appeal of the Groups existing or new brands to its customers and owners may have an adverse impact on the value of that brand and subsequent revenues from that brand or business.
In particular, where the Group is unable to enforce adherence to its safety or operating and quality standards, or the significant regulations applicable to hotel operations, pursuant to its franchise and management contracts, there may be further adverse impact upon brand reputation or customer perception and therefore the value of the Groups brands.
Additional Information 165 Group information continued In addition, the value of the Groups brands is influenced by a number of other factors, some of which may be outside the Groups control, including commoditisation whereby price and or quality becomes relatively more important than brand identifications due, inpart, to the increased prevalence of travel comparison websites and online travel agents, consumer preference and perception, orother factors affecting consumers willingness to purchase goods and services provided by the Group.
The Group companies own a substantial number of service brands upon which it is dependent and the Group believes that its significant trademarks are protected in all material respects in the markets in which its brands currently operate.
Given the importance of brand recognition to the Groups business, the protection of its intellectual property poses a risk due to the variability and change of controls, laws and effectiveness of enforcement globally.
Any widespread infringement, misappropriation or weakening of the control environment could materially harm the value of the Groups brands and its ability to develop the business.
The Group is reliant upon its proprietary reservations system and is exposed to the risk of failures in the system and increased competition in reservations infrastructure The value of the Groups brands is partly derived from the ability to drive reservations through its proprietary HolidexPlus reservations system, a central repository of the Groups hotel room inventories linked electronically to multiple sales channels including the Companys own websites, call centres and hotels, third-party intermediaries and travel agents.
Lack of resilience and operational availability and or the failure of athird-party technology provider could lead to prolonged service disruption and may result in significant business interruption, impact the guest booking experience and subsequently impact onrevenues.
Lack of investment in these systems may also resultin reduced capability, stability and ability to compete.
Additionally, failure to maintain an appropriate technology strategy and select the right technology partners could erode the Groups long-term competitiveness.
The Group is exposed to the risks related to information security and data privacy The Group is increasingly dependent upon the availability, integrity and confidentiality of information including, but not limited to, guestand employee credit card, financial and personal data: and business performance, financial reporting and commercial development.
The information is sometimes held in different formats such as digital, paper, voice recordings and video and could be stored in many places, including facilities managed by third-party service providers.
The threats towards the Groups information are dynamic, and include cyber attacks, fraudulent use, loss or misuse by employees and breaches of our vendors security arrangements amongst others.
The legal and regulatory environment around data privacy and requirements set out by the payment card industry surrounding information security across the many jurisdictions in which the Group operates are constantly evolving.
If the Group fails to appropriately protect information and ensure relevant controls are in place to enable the appropriate use and release of information through the appropriate channels in a timely and accurate manner, IHG System performance, guest experience and the reputation of the Group may be adversely affected.
This can lead to revenue losses, fines, penalties and other additional costs, including legal fees.
The Group is exposed to a variety of risks associated with safety, security and crisis management There is a constant need to protect the safety and security of our guests, employees and assets against natural and man-made threats.
These include but are not limited to exceptional events such as extreme weather, civil or political unrest, violence and terrorism, serious and organised crime, fraud, employee dishonesty, cyber crime, fire and day-to-day accidents, incidents and petty crime which impact the guest or employee experience, could cause loss of life, sickness or injury and result in compensation claims, fines from regulatory bodies, litigation and impact reputation.
Serious incidents or a combination of events could escalate into a crisis which, if managed poorly, could further expose the Group and its brands to significant reputational damage.
The Group requires the right people, skills and capability to manage growth and change In order to remain competitive, the Group must employ the right people.
This includes hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with particular expertise or leadership capability.
The implementation of the Groups strategic business plans could be undermined by failure to build resilient corporate culture, failure to recruit or retain key personnel, unexpected loss of key senior employees, failures in the Groups succession planning and incentive plans, or a failure to invest in the development of key skills.
Some of the markets in which the Group operates are experiencing economic growth, and the Group must compete against other companies inside and outside the hospitality industry for suitably qualified or experienced employees.
Some emerging markets may not have the required local expertise to operate a hotel and may not be able to attract the right talent.
Failure to attract and retain employees may threaten the success of the Groups operations in these markets.
Additionally, unless skills are supported by a sufficient infrastructure to enable knowledge and skills to be passed on, the Group risks losing accumulated knowledge if key employees leave the Group.
The Group is required to comply with existing and changing regulations across numerous countries, territories and jurisdictions Governmental regulations affect countless aspects of the Groups business ranging from corporate governance, health and safety, the environment, bribery and corruption, employment law and diversity, disability access, data privacy and information protection, financial, accounting and tax.
Regulatory changes may require significant changes in the way the business operates and may inhibit the Groups strategy, including the markets the Group operates in, brand protection, and use or transmittal of customer data.
If the Group fails to comply with existing or changing regulations, the Group may be subject to fines, prosecution, loss of licence to operate or reputational damage.
166 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The Group is exposed to the risk of litigation Certain companies in the Group are the subject of various claims and proceedings.
The ultimate outcome of these matters is subject to many uncertainties, including future events and uncertainties inherent in litigation.
In addition, the Group could be at risk of litigation from many parties, including but not limited to: guests, customers, joint-venture partners, suppliers, employees, regulatory authorities, franchisees and or the owners of the hotels it manages.
Claims filed in the US may include requests for punitive damages as well as compensatory damages.
Unfavourable outcomes of claims or proceedings could have a material adverse impact on the Groups results of operations, cash flow and or financial position.
Exposure to significant litigation or fines may also affect the reputation of the Group and its brands.
The Group is exposed to risks related to corporate responsibility The reputation of the Group and the value of its brands are influenced by a wide variety of factors, including the perception of stakeholder groups such as the communities in which the Group operates.
The social and environmental impacts of business are under increasing scrutiny, and the Group is exposed to the risk of damage to its reputation if it fails to demonstrate sufficiently responsible practices, ethical behaviour, or fails to comply with relevant regulatory requirements.
The Group is exposed to a variety of risks associated with its financial stability and ability to borrow and satisfy debt covenants While the strategy of the Group is to extend the hotel network through activities that do not involve significant amounts of its own capital, the Group does require capital to fund some development opportunities and to maintain and improve owned hotels.
The Group is reliant upon having financial strength and access to borrowing facilities to meet these expected capital requirements.
The majority of the Groups borrowing facilities are only available if the financial covenants in the facilities are complied with.
Non-compliance with covenants could result in the lenders demanding repayment of the funds advanced.
If the Groups financial performance does not meet market expectations, it may not be able to refinance existing facilities on terms considered favourable.
The Group may face difficulties insuring its business Historically, the Group has maintained insurance at levels determined to be appropriate in light of the cost of cover and the risk profile of the business.
However, forces beyond the Groups control, including market forces, may limit the scope of coverage the Group can obtain and the Groups ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates.
Other forces beyond the Groups control, such as terrorist attacks or natural disasters, may be uninsurable or simply too expensive to insure.
Inadequate or insufficient insurance could expose the Group to large claims or could result in the loss of capital invested in properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue from properties, and could leave the Group responsible for guarantees, debt or other financial obligations related to such properties.
For further details on the APP deferred share award and for the LTIP share award see pages 78, 79 and 82.
Additional Information 167 Group information continued Description of securities other than equity securities Fees and charges payable to a depositary Category as defined by SEC Depositary actions Associated fee a D epositing or substituting the Each person to whom ADRs are issued $5 for each 100 ADSs or portion thereof underlying shares againstdeposits of shares, including depositsand issuances in respect of: share distributions, stock split, rights, merger: and exchange of securities or any other transactions or event or other distribution affecting the ADSs or the Deposited Securities b Receiving or distributing dividends Distribution of stock dividends $5 for each 100 ADSs or portion thereof Distribution of cash $0.02 or less per ADS or portion thereof c Selling or exercising rights Distribution or sale of securities, the fee $5.00 for each 100 ADSs or portion thereof being inan amount equal to the fee for the execution and delivery of ADSs which would have been charged as a result of the deposit of such securities d Withdrawing an underlying security Acceptance of ADRs surrendered for $5.00 for each 100 ADSs or portion thereof withdrawal of deposited securities e Transferring, splitting or grouping receipts Transfers, combining or grouping of $1.50 per ADS depositary receipts 1 f General depositary services, particularly Other services performed by the depositary $0.02 per ADS or portion thereof not more those charged on an annual basis inadministering the ADRs than once each calendar year and payable at the sole discretion of the ADR Depositary by billing ADR holders or by deducting such charge from one or more cash dividends or other cash distributions.
g Expenses of the depositary Expenses incurred on behalf of ADR holders Expenses payable at the sole discretion of inconnection with: the Depositary by billing ADR holders or by deducting charges from one or more cash compliance with foreign exchange dividends or other cash distributions are $20 controlregulations or any law or regulation per transaction.
relating to foreigninvestment: the ADR Depositarys or its custodians compliance with applicable law, rule or regulation: stock transfer or other taxes and other governmental charges: cable, telex, facsimile transmission delivery: transfer or registration fees in connection withthe deposit and withdrawal of DepositedSecurities: expenses of the ADR Depositary in connection with the conversion of foreign currency into US dollars which are paid out of such foreign currency : and any other charge payable by the ADR Depositary or itsagents.
1 These fees are not currently being charged by the ADR Depositary.
Fees and charges payable by a depositary Direct payments JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. JPMorgan or the ADR Depositary is the depositary for IHGs ADS programme.
The ADR Depositarys principal executive office is at: 1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, Floor 58, New York, NY 10005-1401, United States of America.
The ADR Depositary has agreed to reimburse certain reasonable Company expenses related to the Companys ADR Programme and incurred by the Company in connection with the ADR Programme.
During the year ended 31 December 2013, the Company received $486,293.28 from the ADR Depositary in respect of legal, accounting and other fees incurred in connection with preparation of the Annual Report and Financial Statements and Annual Report on Form 20-F, ongoing SEC compliance and listing requirements, investor relations programmes and advertising and public relations expenditure.
Indirect payments As part of its service to the Company, the ADR Depositary has agreed to waive fees for the standard costs associated with the administration of the ADR Programme, associated operating expensesand investor relations advice.
In the year ended 31 December 2013, the ADR Depositary agreed to waive fees and expenses amounting to $20,000.
168 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Articles of Association ofthe Board.
The Director that is interested in such matter may neither vote on the resolution to authorise such conflict, nor count The Companys articles of association Articles were adopted at inthe quorum of the meeting at which it was passed.
Furthermore, the AGM held on 28 May 2010.
The following summarises material asnoted above, the interested Director is not permitted to vote in rights of holders of the Companys ordinary shares under the respect of any proposal in which he has any material interest except material provisions of the Articles and English law.
This summary in respect of the limited exceptions outlined above nor may he count is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Act and in the quorum of the meeting atwhich such business is transacted.
As such, a Director has no power, in the absence of an independent The Companys shares may be held in certificated or uncertificated quorum, to vote on compensation to himself, but may vote on a form.
No holder of the Companys shares will be required to make resolution and may count in the quorum of the meeting at which additional contributions of capital in respect of the Companys it was passed to award compensation to Directors provided those shares in the future.
arrangements do not confer a benefit on him.
In the following description, a shareholder is the person The Directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of registered inthe Companys register of members as the holder the Company to borrow money, subject to the limitation that of the relevantshare.
the aggregate amount of all moneys borrowed by the Company Principal objects and its subsidiaries shall not exceed an amount equal to three The Company is incorporated under the name InterContinental times the Companys share capital and consolidated reserves, Hotels Group PLC and is registered in England and Wales with unless sanctioned by an ordinary resolution of the Company.
The Articles do not restrict its Under the Articles, there are no age-limit requirements relating to objects or purposes.
a persons qualification to hold office as a Director of the Company.
Directors Directors are not required to hold any shares of the Company by Under the Articles, a Director may have an interest in certain way of qualification.
matters Permitted Interest without the prior approval of the Board provided he has declared the nature and extent of such Rights attaching to shares Permitted Interest at a meeting of the Directors or in the manner Dividend rights and rights to share in the Companys profits set out in Section 184 or Section 185 of the Companies Act.
Under English law, dividends are payable on the Companys ordinary shares only out of profits available for distribution, Any matter which does not comprise a Permitted Interest must as determined in accordance with accounting principles generally be authorised by the Board in accordance with the procedure and accepted in the UK and by the Companies Act.
No dividend will bear requirements contained in the Articles, including the requirement interest as against the Company.
that a Director may not vote on a resolution to authorise a matter in which he is interested, nor may he count in the quorum of the Holders of the Companys ordinary shares are entitled to receive meeting at which such business is transacted.
such dividends as may be declared by the shareholders in general meeting, rateably according to the amounts paid up on such shares, Further, a Director may not vote in respect of any proposal in which provided that the dividend cannot exceed the amount recommended he, or any person connected with him, has any material interest by the Directors.
other than by virtue of his interests in securities of, or otherwise in or through, the Company, nor may he count in the quorum The Companys Board of Directors may declare and pay to of the meeting at which such business is transacted.
This is shareholders such interim dividends as appear to them to be subject to certain exceptions, including in relation to proposals: justified by the Companys financial position.
If authorised by an a indemnifying him in respect of obligations incurred on behalf ordinary resolution of the shareholders, the Board of Directors of the Company: b indemnifying a third party in respect of may also direct payment of a dividend in whole or in part by the obligations of the Company for which the Director has assumed distribution of specific assets and in particular of paid-up shares responsibility under an indemnity or guarantee: c relating to an or debentures of any othercompany.
offer of securities in which he will be interested as an underwriter: Any dividend unclaimed by a member or by a person entitled by d concerning another body corporate in which the Director is virtue of transmission on death or bankruptcy or otherwise by beneficially interested in less than one percent of the issued operation of law after six years from the date the dividend was shares of any class of shares of such a body corporate: e relating declared, or became due for payment, will be forfeited and will to an employee benefit in which the Director will share equally revert to the Company.
with other employees: and f relating to liability insurance that the Company is empowered to purchase for the benefit of Directors Voting rights of the Company inrespect of actions undertaken as Directors The holders of ordinary shares are entitled, in respect of their or officers of theCompany.
holdings of such shares, to receive notice of general meetings andtoattend, speak and vote at such meetings in accordance The Directors have authority under the Articles to set their own with the Articles.
remuneration provided certain criteria is met.
While an agreement to award remuneration to a Director is an arrangement with the Voting at any general meeting of shareholders is by a show of Company that comprises a Permitted Interest and therefore hands unless a poll, which is a written vote, is duly demanded.
does not require authorisation by the Board in that respect, On a show of hands, every shareholder who is present in person it is nevertheless a matter that would be expected to give rise or by proxy at a general meeting has one vote regardless of the to a conflict of interest between the Director concerned and the number of shares held.
Company, and such conflict must be authorised by a resolution Additional Information 169 Group information continued On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy Articles relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, except has one vote for every share held by that shareholder.
A poll may that the quorum is to be the number of persons which must be two be demanded by any of the following: or more who hold or represent by proxy not less than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of that class.
the chairman of the meeting: Rights in a winding-up at least five shareholders present in person or by proxy and Except as the Companys shareholders have agreed or may entitled to vote at the meeting: otherwise agree, upon the Companys winding up, the balance of any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy assets available for distribution: representing in the aggregate not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights of all shareholders entitled to vote at the meeting: or after the payment of all creditors including certain preferential creditors, whether statutorily preferred creditors or normal any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy creditors: and holding shares conferring a right to vote at the meeting and on which there have been paid up sums in the aggregate at least subject to any special rights attaching to any class of shares, equal to one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares is to be distributed among the holders of ordinary shares conferring thatright.
accordingto the amounts paid up on the shares held by them.
A proxy form will be treated as giving the proxy the authority to Thisdistribution is generally to be made in cash.
A liquidator demand a poll, or to join others in demanding one.
may, however, upon the adoption of a special resolution of the shareholders, divide among the shareholders the whole or any The necessary quorum for a general meeting is three persons partof the Companys assets in kind.
carrying a right to vote upon the business to be transacted, whether present in person or by proxy.
Limitations on voting and shareholding There are no limitations imposed by English law or the Articles Matters are transacted at general meetings of the Company by the on the right of non-residents or foreign persons to hold or vote proposing and passing of resolutions, of which there are two kinds: the Companys ordinary shares or ADSs, other than the limitations an ordinary resolution, which includes resolutions for the that would generally apply to all of the Companys shareholders.
election of Directors, the approval of financial statements, Working Time Regulations 1998 the cumulative annual payment of dividends, the appointment of the auditor, the increase of authorised share capital or the Under EU law, many employees of Group companies are now grant of authority to allot shares: and covered by the Working Time Regulations which came into force inthe UK on 1 October 1998.
These regulations implemented the a special resolution, which includes resolutions amending the European Working Time Directive and parts of theYoung Workers Articles, disapplying statutory pre-emption rights, modifying the Directive, and lay down rights and protections for employees in rights of any class of the Companys shares at a meeting of the areas such as maximum working hours, minimumrest time, holders of such class or relating to certain matters concerning minimum days off and paid leave.
the Companys winding up or changing the Companys name.
In the UK, there is in place a national minimum wage under the An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a majority of National Minimum Wage Act.
At 31 December 2013, the minimum the votes of those persons present and entitled to vote at a meeting wage for individuals between 18 and under the age of 21 was at which there is a quorum.
5.03 per hour and 6.31 per hour for individuals age 21 and Special resolutions require the affirmative vote of not less than above in each case, excluding apprentices aged under 19 years or, three quarters of the persons present and entitled to vote at a otherwise, in the first year of their apprenticeships.
This particularly meeting at which there is a quorum.
impacts businesses in the hospitality and retailing sectors.
Compliance with the National Minimum Wage Act is being monitored AGMs must be convened upon advance written notice of 21 days.
by the Low Pay Commission, an independent statutory body Subject to law, other meetings must be convened upon advance established by the UK Government.
The days of delivery or receipt of the notice are not included.
The notice must specify the nature of the Less than five per cent of the Groups UK employees are covered business to be transacted.
The Board of Directors may, if they by collective bargaining agreements with trade unions.
choose, make arrangements for shareholders who are unable Continual attention is paid to the external market in order to ensure to attend the place of the meeting to participate at other places.
that terms of employment are appropriate.
The Group believes the The Articles specify that each Director shall retire every three Group companies will be able to conduct their relationships with years at the AGM and, unless otherwise decided by the Directors, trade unions and employees in a satisfactory manner.
shall be eligible for re-election.
However, the Code recommends Material contracts that all directors of FTSE 350 companies submit themselves for election or re-election as appropriate by shareholders every year.
The following contracts have been entered into otherwise than in Therefore, all Directors will retire and offerthemselves for election the course of ordinary business by members of the Group either: or re-election at the 2014 AGM.
i in the two years immediately preceding the date of this document in the case of contracts which are or may be material: or ii which Variation of rights contain provisions under which any Group member has any If, at any time, the Companys share capital is divided into different obligation or entitlement which is material to the Group as at the classes of shares, the rights attached to any class may be varied, date of this document.
To the extent that these agreements include subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, with the consent in representations, warranties and indemnities, such provisions are writing of holders of three-fourths in nominal value of the issued considered standard in an agreement of that nature, save to the shares of that class or upon the adoption of a special resolution extent identified below.
passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions of the 170 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Disposal of 80 per cent interest in the InterContinental Under the Trust Deed, each of the Issuer and the Guarantors has New YorkBarclay given certain customary covenants in favour of the Trustee.
On 19 December 2013, Constellation Barclay Holding US, LLC, Final Terms were issued pursuant to the previous base which is an affiliate of Constellation Hotels Holding Limited, prospectus dated 27 November 2009 on 9 December 2009 in agreed, pursuant to a contribution agreement, to acquire an respect of the issue of a Tranche of 250 million 6% Notes due 80 per cent interest in a joint venture with IHG to own and refurbish 9 December 2016 2009Issuance.
the InterContinental New York Barclay hotel.
The 80 per cent interest will be acquired for gross cash proceeds of $240 million.
Final Terms were issued pursuant to the Base Prospectus IHG will hold the remaining 20 per cent interest.
on 26November 2012 in respect of the issue of a Tranche of 400 million 3.875% Notes due 28 November 2022 2012 Issuance.
IHG has also secured a 30-year management contract on the hotel, commencing in 2014, with two 10-year extension rights at IHGs The Final Terms issued under each of the 2009 Issuance and the discretion, giving an expected contract length of 50 years.
2012 Issuance provide that the holders of the Notes have the right to repayment if the Notes a become non-investment grade within Constellation Barclay Holding US, LLC and IHG have agreed to invest the period commencing on the date of announcement of a change through the joint venture in a significant refurbishment, repositioning of control and ending 90 days after the change of control Change and extension of the hotel.
This is expected to commence in 2014 of Control Period and are not subsequently, within the Change of and will take place over a period of approximately 18 months.
Control Period, reinstated to investment grade: b are downgraded The transaction is expected to complete in the first quarter of 2014, from a non-investment grade and are not reinstated to its earlier subject to the satisfaction of certain standard conditions.
credit rating or better within the Change of Control Period: or c are Under the contribution agreement, IHG gave certain customary not credit rated and do not become investment-grade credit rated warranties and indemnities to Constellation Barclay Holding US, LLC.
by the end of the Change of Control Period.
Sale of interest in the InterContinental London Park Lane Further details of the Programme and the Notes are set out in the On 27 March 2013, an asset sale and purchase agreement APA Base Prospectus, a copy of which is available as is a copy of each was entered into between Hotel Inter-Continental London Limited, ofthe Final Terms dated 7 December 2009 relating to the 2009 Six Continents Limited and Constellation Hotel Opco UK S. A.
Issuance and the Final Terms dated 26 November 2012 relating to which is an affiliate of Constellation Hotels Holding Limited.
the 2012 Issuance on the Companys website at www.
Under the APA, Hotel Inter-Continental London Limited agreed to The Notes issued pursuant to the 2009 Issuance and the Notes sell its leasehold interest in InterContinental London Park Lane issued pursuant to the 2012 Issuance are referred to as 250million to Constellation Hotel Opco UK S. A.
The sale was completed on 6% bonds and the 400 million 3.875% bonds respectively in the 1 May 2013.
In connection with the sale, IHG secured a 30-year Group Financial Statements.
management contract on the hotel, with three 10-year extension On 27 November 2009, the Issuer and the Guarantors entered into rights at IHGs discretion, giving an expected contract length of an agency agreement Agency Agreement with HSBC Bank plc 60 years.
as principal paying agent and the Trustee, pursuant to which the Under the APA, Hotel Inter-Continental London Limited gave Issuer and the Guarantors appointed paying agents and calculation certain customary warranties and indemnities to the purchaser.
agents in connection with the Programme and the Notes.
IHGs share of the sale proceeds before transaction costs were Under the Agency Agreement, each of the Issuer and the Guarantors 301.5 million in cash, 61 million of which was used to provide has given a customary indemnity in favour of the paying agents and security over UK pension liabilities which were previously secured the calculation agents.
There was no change to the Agency against the hotel.
750 Million Euro Medium Term Note Programme On 9 November 2012, the Issuer and the Guarantors entered into In 2012, the Group updated its Euro Medium Term Note programme a dealer agreement Dealer Agreement with HSBC Bank plc as Programme and issued a tranche of 400 million 3.875% notes arranger and Citigroup Global Markets Limited, HSBC Bank plc, due 28 November 2022.
Lloyds TSB Bank plc, Merrill Lynch International, Mitsubishi UFJ Securities International plc and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc as On 9 November 2012, an amended and restated trust deed dealers Dealers, pursuant to which the Dealers were appointed Trust Deed was executed by InterContinental Hotels Group PLC in connection with the Programme and the Notes.
as issuer Issuer, Six Continents Limited and InterContinental Hotels Limited as guarantors Guarantors and HSBC Corporate Under the Dealer Agreement, each of the Issuer and the Trustee Company UK Limited as trustee Trustee, pursuant to Guarantors has given customary warranties and indemnities which the trust deed dated 29 November 2009, as supplemented in favour of theDealers.
by the first supplemental trust deed dated 7 July 2011 between Syndicated Facility the same parties relating to the Programme, was amended and On 7 November 2011, the Company signed a five-year $1.07 billion restated.
Underthe Trust Deed, the Issuer may issue notes bank facility agreement with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Notes unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed by the NB International Finance B. V. Citigroup Global Markets Limited, Guarantors, uptoa maximum nominal amount from time to time HSBC Bank plc, Lloyds TSB Bank plc and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi outstanding of750 million or its equivalent in other currencies.
UFJ, Ltd. all acting as mandated lead arrangers and Banc of America Notes are to be issued in series each a Series in bearer form.
Securities Limited as facility agent Syndicated Facility.
EachSeries may comprise one or more tranches each a Tranche issued on different issue dates.
Each Tranche of Notes will be issued The interest margin payable on borrowings under the Syndicated on the terms and conditions set out in the updated base prospectus Facility is linked to IHGs consolidated net debt to consolidated dated 9 November 2012 Base Prospectus as amended and or EBITDA ratio.
The margin can vary between LIBOR 0.90% and supplemented by a document setting out the final terms FinalTerms LIBOR 1.70% depending on the level of the ratio.
The facility was of such Tranche or in a separate prospectus specific tosuch Tranche.
Additional Information 171 Group information continued Legal proceedings On 31 July 2012, the UKs Office of Fair Trading OFT issued a Statement of Objections alleging that the Company together with Group companies have extensive operations in the UK, as well Booking.
com B. V. and Expedia, Inc. had infringed competition law as internationally, and are involved in a number of legal claims in relation to the online supply of room-only hotel accommodation and proceedings incidental to those operations.
It is the by online travel agents.
Companys view that such proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, have not in the recent past and are not likely The Company has co-operated fully with the investigation.
to have a significant effect on the Groups financial position or On 31 January 2014, the OFT announced its decision to accept a profitability.
Notwithstanding the above, the Company notes the series of commitments and to conclude its investigation without any matters set out below.
Litigation is inherently unpredictable and, finding of infringement or wrongdoing, or the imposition of any fine.
as at 17 February 2014, the outcome of these matters cannot be A class-action claim was filed on 3 July 2012 by two claimants reasonably determined.
alleging that InterContinental Hotels of San Francisco, Inc. and A claim was filed on 9 July 2013 by Pan American Life InterContinental Hotels Group Resources, Inc. violated California Insurance Company against Louisiana Acquisitions Corp. and Penal Code 632.7, based upon the alleged improper recording of Inter-Continental Hotels Corporation IHC.
The claimant identified cellular phone calls originating from California to IHG customer eight causes of action: breach of contract: breach of partnership, care and reservations centres.
The claimants subsequently fiduciary duties and good faith obligations: fraud: civil conspiracy: amended the claim to include Six Continents Hotels, Inc. conversion: unfair trade practices: unjust enrichment: and alter The Group intends to vigorously defend against these claims.
As at 17 February 2014, the likelihood of a favourable or As at 17 February 2014, the likelihood of a favourable or unfavourable result cannot be reasonably determined and it is unfavourable result cannot be reasonably determined and it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable or to not possible to determine whether any loss is probable or to estimate the amount of any loss.
estimate the amount of any loss.
On 20 August 2012, two claimants filed a class-action claim in On 20 April 2012, Sanya Huayu Tourism Co. Ltd. Sanya, the owner California against several online travel companies and hotel of the former Crowne Plaza Sanya hotel, filed an arbitration petition companies, including a Group company, InterContinental Hotels against Holiday Inns China Limited HICL with CIETAC Beijing Group Resources, Inc. in connection with alleged anti-competitive seeking compensation for its alleged losses in the amount of practices.
Several similar claims were filed across the US by other RMB 33,867,766.63 approximately $5.2 million.
The claims related claimants alleging similar complaints.
All of these cases were to HICLs alleged mismanagement of the hotel.
Sanya filed additional consolidated in a multidistrict litigation proceeding in the U. S. damages claims on 20 November 2012, which increased the total District Court for the Northern District of Texas for the purpose alleged losses to RMB 43,225,523.53 approximately $6.9 million.
of pre-trial proceedings with the exception of cases which were On 4 June 2012, and then by further amendment on 29 September voluntarily dismissed.
On 1 May 2013, claimants filed a Consolidated 2012, HICL filed a statement of counterclaim seeking numerous Amended Complaint alleging federal and state antitrust and unfair categories of counterclaims from Sanya totalling approximately trade practices associated with online hotel-room booking.
2013, the defendants moved to dismiss the Consolidated Amended On 9 September 2013, HICL and Sanya settled their respective Complaint.
The motion to dismiss is fully briefed and argued, and the claims, pursuant to a settlement agreement, and on 17 September parties are awaiting a decision.
The Court has stayed all discovery in 2013, CIETAC Beijing issued a ruling approving both parties the action pending a ruling on the motion to dismiss.
It is not possible requests to withdraw all claims against each other.
to determine whether any loss is probable or to estimate the amount of any loss.
The Group intends to defend against these claims Exchange controls vigorously.
As at 17 February 2014, the outcome of these matters There are no restrictions on dividend payments to US citizens.
could not be reasonably determined.
Although there are currently no UK foreign exchange control On 10 August 2012, Shanghai Yaoda Real Estate Development Co. restrictions on the export or import of the capital or the payment Ltd. Yaoda, the owner of the InterContinental Shanghai Puxi hotel of dividends on the ordinary shares or the ADSs, from time to time filed an arbitration petition with the Shanghai International Economic English law imposes restrictions on the payment of dividends to and Trade Arbitration Commission SIETAC, which was formerly persons resident or treated as so resident in or governments of known as China International Economic and Trade Arbitration or persons exercising public functions in certain countries each Commission Shanghai Sub Commission, containing numerous of the foregoing, a Prohibited Person.
allegations relating to IHCs alleged mismanagement of the hotel and the fide-flagging of the hotel, which took place on 31 August 2012.
There are no restrictions under the Articles or under English law that Yaoda sought approximately $46 million relating to the alleged loss limit the right of non-resident or foreign owners to hold or vote the of value of the hotel, costs of compliance with the brand standards, ordinary shares.
However, under current English law, ordinary lost revenue at the hotel, costs and general damages.
Pursuant to shares or ADSs may not be owned by a Prohibited Person.
In addition, the dispute mechanism specified under the management contract, the Articles contain certain limitations on the voting and other rights IHC filed a counterclaim with the China International Economic and of any holder of ordinary shares whose holding may, in the opinion of Trade Arbitration Commission in Beijing CIETAC Beijing.
the Directors, result in the loss or failure to secure the reinstatement of any license or franchise from any US governmental agency held by On 21 March 2013, SIETAC issued an arbitral award the Award Six Continents Hotels, Inc. or any subsidiary thereof.
ordering IHC to pay Yaoda an aggregate amount of RMB 150,379,000 approximately $25 million.
On 15 May 2013, IHC filed a motion to cancel the Award with the Shanghai 2nd Intermediate Peoples Court.
On 27 July 2013, IHC and Yaoda settled their respective claims, pursuant to a settlement agreement, and entered into a new hotel support management contract.
172 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
