110 110 Interser Interserve five Annu AnnuA Al l r repor eport t 2013 2013 FI FIn nA An nCIA CIAl l st stA Ate teM Ments ents notes notes t to t o tH He e C Consol onsolIDA IDAte teD D FInAnCIAl stAteMents notes to tHe ConsolIDAteD notes to tHe ConsolIDAteD FInAnCIAl stAteMents for the year ended 31 December 2013 for the year ended 31 December 2013 1.
BAsIs oF prepArAtIon AnD ACCountInG polICIes BAsIs oF prepArAtIon The Interserve Plc consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and comply with the IFRS and related Interpretations SIC and IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union.
Adoption of new and revised standards In the current year, the following new and revised standards and interpretations have been adopted and affected the amounts reported in these financial statements: Amendments to IAs 1 Presentation of financial statements The amendments to IAS 1 entitled Presentation of items of other comprehensive income have increased the required level of disclosure within the statement of comprehensive income, by separating items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss from those that could be reclassified.
The presentation of items of other comprehensive income has been restated.
There is no impact on profit or loss and total comprehensive income.
IAs 19 revised Employee benefits The key impact of IAS 19 Revised is the removal of the separate assumptions for expected return on plan assets and discounting of scheme liabilities, replacing them with one single discount rate for the net deficit.
These financial statements are the first in which the Group has adopted IAS 19 Revised, which has been applied retrospectively.
As the Group has always recognised actuarial gains and losses immediately, there is no effect on prior periods defined benefit obligation and balance sheet disclosure.
For the year ended 31 December 2013, the consolidated income statement is 4.1 million lower and the statement of comprehensive income is 4.1 million higher than it would have been prior to the adoption of IAS 19 Revised, and for the year ended 31 December 2012, the consolidated income statement is 2.5 million lower and the statement of comprehensive income is 2.5 million higher than it would have been prior to the adoption of IAS 19 Revised.
Earnings per share for 2013 and 2012 are 3.1p lower and 1.9p lower, respectively, than they would have been prior to adoption.
The following standards do not materially impact the Group: IFrs 7 amended Financial instruments: disclosures IFrs 13 Fair value measurement IAs 12 amended Deferred tax: recovery of underlying assets IFrs 1 amended Government loans IAs 36 amended Recoverable amount disclosures for non-financial assets At the date of authorisation of these Group financial statements, the following standards and interpretations were in issue but not yet effective, and therefore have not been applied in these Group financial statements: IFrs 9 Financial instruments IFrs 10 amended Consolidated financial statements IFrs 11 Joint arrangements IFrs 12 Disclosures of interests in other entities IAs 27 revised Separate financial statements IAs 28 revised Investments in associates and joint ventures IAs 32 amended Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities IFrs 10, IFrs 12 and IAs 27 amended Investment entities IFrs 10, IFrs 11 and IFrs 12 amended Consolidated financial statements, Joint arrangements and Disclosure of interests in other entities IAs 39 amended Novation of derivatives and continuation of hedge accounting The impact of the sections of IFRS 9 currently issued will result in the Groups project finance interests that are currently treated by the joint-venture companies as being available-for-sale, being treated as a debt carried at fair value through profit or loss or amortised cost.
As a result, movements in the fair value will no longer be taken to other comprehensive income.
Except for IFRS 9 above, the directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
overvIew strAteGIC report GovernAnCe FInAnCIAl stAteMents Interserve AnnuAl report 2013 FInAnCIAl stAteMents notes to tHe ConsolIDAteD FInAnCIAl stAteMents 111 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation and uncertainty In the preparation of the consolidated financial statements management makes certain judgements and estimates that impact the financial statements.
While these judgements are continually reviewed the facts and circumstances underlying these judgements may change resulting in a change to the estimates that could impact the results of the Group.
In particular: Revenue and margin recognition The policy for revenue recognition on long-term and service contracts is set out in notes 1 d and e. Judgements are made on an ongoing basis with regard to the recoverability of amounts due and liabilities arising.
Regular forecasts are compiled on the outcomes of these types of contracts, which require assessments and judgements relating to the recovery of pre-contract costs, changes in work scopes, contract programmes and maintenance liabilities.
PFI financial assets and derivative financial instruments The Groups interests in PFI PPP investments are classified as available-for-sale financial assets by the joint-venture entities.
The fair value of these financial assets is measured at each balance sheet date by discounting the future cash flows allocated to the financial asset.
The discount rate used is based on long-term LIBoR plus a margin to reflect the risk associated with each project.
The Groups PFI PPP joint-venture and associate companies use derivative financial instruments to manage the interest rate and inflation rate risks to which the concessions are exposed within their long-term contractual agreements.
These derivatives are initially recognised as assets and liabilities at their fair value and subsequently remeasured at each balance sheet date at their fair value.
The fair value of derivatives, assessed by discounting future cash flows, constantly changes in response to prevailing market conditions.
Measurement of impairment of goodwill As set out in note 1 b the carrying value of goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
In determining whether goodwill is impaired an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating unit CGU to which the goodwill has been allocated is required.
This calculation of value in use requires estimates to be made relating to the timing and amount of future cash flows expected from the CGU, and suitable discount rates based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital adjusted to reflect the specific economic environment of the relevant CGU.
Retirement benefit obligations In accordance with IAS 19 Employee benefits, the Group has disclosed in note 30 the assumptions used in calculating the defined benefit obligations.
In the calculation a number of assumptions around future salary increases, increase in pension benefits, mortality rates, inflation, discount rates and the likely future return on scheme assets have been made.
Property, plant and equipment The rental fleet in Equipment Services has a carrying value of 101.3 million 2012: 102.1 million.
The great majority of equipment in the rental fleet is depreciated on a straight-line basis to a residual value of zero over 10 years.
Asset lives are reviewed regularly in light of technological change, prospective utilisation and the physical condition of the assets.
Due to the transportable nature of the rental fleet, the review for potential impairment is performed on a global basis.
Carrying value of trade and other receivables Allowance for doubtful debt and provisions against other receivables, including amounts due on construction contracts and carrying value of accrued income, are made on a specific basis, based on estimates of irrecoverability determined by market knowledge and past experience.
112 Interserve AnnuAl report 2013 FInAnCIAl stAteMents notes to tHe ConsolIDAteD FInAnCIAl stAteMents notes to tHe ConsolIDAteD FInAnCIAl stAteMents ConTInUED 1.
BAsIs oF prepArAtIon AnD ACCountInG polICIes ConTInUED ACCountInG polICIes Interserve Plc the Company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom and bound by the Companies Act 2006.
The consolidated financial statements comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in joint ventures and associates.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out below.
These financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
As disclosed on page 50 the directors believe that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The significant accounting policies adopted by the directors are set out below and have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material to the Groups financial statements.
a Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries.
The results, assets and liabilities of associates and joint-venture entities are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included from the effective date of acquisition or until the effective date of disposal respectively.
Minority interests in the net assets of the consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity interest therein.
Minority interests consist of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the minoritys share of the changes in equity since the date of the combination.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of the associates, joint ventures and any newly acquired subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
When an entity has an accounting reference date other than 31 December, due to the influence of a co-shareholder or customer requirements, the consolidation includes management accounts, prepared using these Group accounting policies, drawn up for the year ended 31 December.
Where a Group company is party to a jointly-controlled operation, that company proportionately accounts for its share of the income and expenditure, assets, liabilities and cash flows on a line-by-line basis.
Such arrangements are reported in the consolidated financial statements on the same basis.
b Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition accounting method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of acquisition, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquired company.
The acquired companys identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are recognised at their fair value as at the acquisition date.
Before the adoption of IFRS 3 revised, the cost of acquisition included any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
Costs incurred on acquisitions completed since 1 January 2010, the date of adoption of the revision to IFRS 3, are expensed.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
on disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly-controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP value at that date, subject to being subsequently tested for impairment.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of shares in associated undertakings is included within investments in associated undertakings.
The interest of minority shareholders in the acquired company is initially measured at the minorities proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
overvIew strAteGIC report GovernAnCe FInAnCIAl stAteMents Interserve AnnuAl report 2013 FInAnCIAl stAteMents notes to tHe ConsolIDAteD FInAnCIAl stAteMents 113 c Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currency are translated at the rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the rates ruling at that date.
These translation differences are dealt with in the profit for the year.
The financial results and cash flows of foreign subsidiaries, associated undertakings and joint ventures are translated into sterling at the average rate of exchange for the year.
The balance sheets are translated into sterling at the closing rate of exchange, and the difference arising from the translation of the opening net assets and financial results for the year at the closing rate is taken directly to reserves.
d revenue Revenue comprises the fair value of goods and services supplied to external customers, the value of work executed in respect of provision of services and construction contracts and the rental and sale of equipment, excluding VAT.
Revenue from construction contracts is recognised in accordance with the Groups accounting policy on construction contracts see below.
non-construction revenue and investment revenue is recognised on an accruals basis.
e Contract accounting Where the outcome of a contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
Where the outcome of a contract cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is only recognised to the extent that it is probable that it will be recoverable.
Profit is only recognised on a construction contract when the final outcome can be assessed with reasonable certainty.
Expected losses are recognised immediately.
Stage of completion is determined by surveys of work performed by quantity surveyors in conjunction with clients.
f other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are stated at fair value less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses, provided that the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition.
operating software acquired as part of a related item of hardware is capitalised within property, plant and equipment along with the hardware acquired.
other software licences acquired are capitalised, along with the cost to bring the software into use, within intangible assets.
other intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight-line basis, typically between three and ten years.
g property, plant and equipment i owned property, plant and equipment - tangible fixed assets are carried at historical cost less any accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
Properties in the course of construction are carried at cost less any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets over their expected useful lives.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line or reducing-balance basis at rates ranging between: Straight line Reducing balance Freehold land nil Freehold buildings 2% to 5% - Leasehold property over the period of the lease Plant and equipment 10% to 50% 11.5% to 38% ii Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases are capitalised and depreciated over their expected useful lives.
The finance charges are allocated over the primary period of the lease in proportion to the capital element outstanding.
h Impairment of tangible and other intangible assets The Group reviews, at least annually, the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets compared to their recoverable amounts to determine whether those assets have suffered an impairment loss see note 13.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
114 Interserve AnnuAl report 2013 FInAnCIAl stAteMents notes to tHe ConsolIDAteD FInAnCIAl stAteMents notes to tHe ConsolIDAteD FInAnCIAl stAteMents ConTInUED 1.
BAsIs oF prepArAtIon AnD ACCountInG polICIes ConTInUED i Investments Investments are held at fair value at the balance sheet date.
Investments are financial assets and are classified as fair value through the profit or loss.
Gains or losses arising from the changes in fair value are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
j Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of inventories is calculated using the weighted average method.
net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
k Borrowing costs Project-specific finance costs are capitalised until the asset becomes operational.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
l pFI bid costs and other pre-contract costs In the case of PFI bid costs, on financial close of the project the Group recovers bid costs by charging a fee to the relevant project company.
If the fee exceeds the amount held by the Group as an asset, the excess is credited to the balance sheet as deferred income and is released to the income statement over the construction and early start-up period.
If the agreed fee is less than the amount held by the Group as an asset, the loss is recognised as soon as it is anticipated.
other pre-contract costs are recognised as expenses as incurred, except that directly attributable costs are recognised as an asset when it is virtually certain that a contract will be obtained and the contract is expected to result in future net cash inflows.
Virtual certainty of a contract award is a subjective assessment, but normally arises on appointment as preferred bidder or notification from the prospective customer of their intent to appoint Interserve.
m leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and the reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are reflected in the income statement.
operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
n provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using an appropriate rate that takes into account the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
o Financial instruments trade receivables Trade receivables are initially measured at fair value.
Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in the income statement where there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
Trade receivables are financial assets and classified as loans and receivables.
Cash and deposits Cash and deposits comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and other short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Cash and deposits are financial assets and are classified as loans and receivables.
Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Bank borrowings are other financial liabilities.
overvIew strAteGIC report GovernAnCe FInAnCIAl stAteMents Interserve AnnuAl report 2013 FInAnCIAl stAteMents notes to tHe ConsolIDAteD FInAnCIAl stAteMents 115 trade payables Trade payables are other financial liabilities initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Transactions in derivative financial instruments are for risk management purposes only.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk.
To the extent that such instruments are matched to underlying assets or liabilities, they are accounted for using hedge accounting.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is taken out and subsequently remeasured at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Changes in fair value of derivative instruments that are designated as, and effective as, hedges of future cash flows and net investments are recognised directly in the other comprehensive income statement.
Any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled through the income statement in the same period in which the underlying hedged item is recognised in the income statement.
However, when the transaction that is being hedged results in a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously accumulated in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of that asset or liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity at that time is retained in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, any cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement for the period.
Changes in fair value of derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting, or have not been designated as hedges, are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
These derivative instruments are designated as fair value through the profit or loss FVTPL.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their economic risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value.
p share-based payments The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based payment.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 november 2002 that were unvested as at 1 January 2004.
The Group issues share-based payments to certain employees.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straightline basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of an appropriate valuation model.
The Black-Scholes option pricing model has been used to value the share option plans and the Sharesave Scheme.
A stochastic model has been used to value the Performance Share Plan.
q pFI projects treatment on consolidation The Groups investments in PFI jointly-controlled entities Joint ventures - PFI Investments are accounted for under the equity method.
treatment in the underlying joint-venture entity The joint-venture entities have determined the appropriate treatment of the principal assets of, and income streams from, PFI and similar contracts.
The balance of risks and rewards derived from the underlying assets is not borne by the entities, and therefore the asset provided is accounted for as a financial asset and is classified as available-for-sale.
Income is recognised on PFI projects both as operating revenue and interest income: a proportion of total cash receivable is allocated to operating revenue by means of a margin on service costs taking account of operational risks, and interest income on the financial asset is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
The residual element is allocated to the amortisation of the financial asset.
The fair value of the financial asset is measured at each balance sheet date by computing the discounted future value of the cash flow allocated to the financial asset.
Discount rates are determined using long-term interest rates, subject to a floor, plus risk factors specific to individual projects.
116 Interserve AnnuAl report 2013 FInAnCIAl stAteMents notes to tHe ConsolIDAteD FInAnCIAl stAteMents notes to tHe ConsolIDAteD FInAnCIAl stAteMents ConTInUED 1.
BAsIs oF prepArAtIon AnD ACCountInG polICIes ConTInUED Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets are recognised directly in equity until the asset is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the income statement for the period.
r pensions The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes for the benefit of permanent members of staff.
For the defined benefit schemes the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised directly in equity and presented in the statement of recognised income and expense.
For defined contribution schemes, the amount recognised in the income statement is equal to the contributions payable to the schemes during the year.
s taxation Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at the rates at which they are likely to reverse in the tax jurisdiction to which they relate.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences which arise between the carrying value of an asset or liability and its tax base.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be sufficient profits in the future to enable the assets to be utilised and reviewed at least annually.
Deferred tax liabilities are normally recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Deferred tax is charged credited to the income statement except to the extent that the underlying asset or liability is credited charged to equity in which case the deferred tax follows that treatment to equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
t exceptional items Exceptional items are those that the Group consider to be non-recurring and significant in size or in nature.
Exceptional items includes profit on disposals of PFI investments and related costs.
u Assets classified as held for sale Assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than continuing for use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
