OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 69 We will monitor our success in developing the diversity of the Insurance Manager, the Group Company Secretary who is its Board as part of our annual evaluation of Board effectiveness.
secretary, the Group General Counsel and a representative from each of the Groups operating divisions.
The internal REMUNERATION COMMITTEE audit partner has a standing invitation to attend.
The committee has written terms of reference and provides The Remuneration Committee, composed entirely of copies of its meeting minutes to the Board.
independent non-executive directors, is chaired by David Thorpe.
The names of the committee members The business covered during the year included: reviews of are set out in the table on page 67.
The responsibilities the Groups prime risk areas and of contract risk allocation of the committee, together with an explanation of the and control: reputation management: business continuity work undertaken and how it applies the directors planning and IT disaster recovery: information security remuneration principles of the Code, are set out in risk assessment: regular reviews of the risks presented by more detail in the Directors Remuneration Report on forthcoming legislation: and updates on current insurance, pages 77 to 97 and are incorporated by reference into internal audit, health and safety and IT developments.
FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS DISCLOSURES OTHER BOARD COMMITTEES In order to present a balanced assessment of the Companys The Conflicts Committee comprises the Group Chairman position and prospects, the Annual Report contains a Directors or, in the event that he is interested in the matter to be Responsibility Statement on page 98, an Independent Auditors considered, the Senior Independent Director, and the Report about their reporting responsibilities on pages 99 to 103 Company Secretary.
and a going concern statement on page 50.
An explanation of the Companys business model and strategy for delivering the The General Purposes Committee comprises any two Companys objectives is set out on pages 10 and 11, and executive directors one of whom must be the Chief 6 and 7, respectively.
Executive or, in his absence, the Group Finance Director.
The Directors Report contained on pages 56 to 64, of which The Inside Information Committee comprises the Group this Corporate Governance report forms part, contains the Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
information required by paragraph 13 2 c, d, f, h and i The PFI Committee comprises any two or more directors.
of Schedule 7 to The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as Each committee has written terms of reference and reports amended by The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report on the business conducted to the following Board meeting.
and Directors Report Regulations 2013 and The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Committee meetings held during the year are as follows: Amendment Regulations 2013.
Committee Number of meetings CONTROL PROCESSES Conflicts 1 The Board has a continuous process for identifying, General Purposes 38 evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group Inside Information faces together with an ongoing process to embed internal control and risk management further into the operations of PFI 1 the businesses.
This has been in place for the period under review and until the date of approval of this Annual Report RISK COMMITTEE and Financial Statements.
The Audit Committee, the Risk Committee and Executive Board assist the Board in the The Board has overall responsibility for internal control, application of these principles.
including risk management and the ongoing review of their effectiveness, and sets appropriate policies having regard to The Board has documented a risk management policy the objectives of the Group.
It formally reviews the Groups setting out the prime risk areas including the threats, register of risks and mitigation plans twice a year and risk indicators, control strategy and sources of assurance.
discusses any significant developments in risk exposure as The policy is included within the Groups internal controls and when appropriate.
Internal controls are normally reviewed by the Board in advance of the publication of the Groups half-year and As discussed on page 68, the Executive Board has a annual reports.
key role in risk management.
In order to assist it with discharging this responsibility the Executive Board The Board received and reviewed bi-annual reports from constituted a Risk Committee.
the Executive Board on the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for the period under review and The committee, which met four times during the year, implements improvements from time to time in order to comprises the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, strengthen the control processes.
Group Health, Safety and Environmental Manager, Group
