over overview view ST STr rA AT Te eG GiiC C re reP Por orT T G Gover overNANC finance e F FiiNANC NANCiiAL AL ST STA AT Te eM Me eNTS NTS iNT iNTer erS Ser erve five A ANN NNu uAL AL r re eP Por orT T 2013 2013 F FiiNANC NANCiiAL AL ST STA AT Te eM Me eNTS NTS N No oT Te eS S T To o T The he C Co oMP MPAN ANy y F FiiNANC NANCiiAL AL ST STA AT Te eM Me eNTS NTS 151151 N N o o T T e e S S T T oo T h T e h Ce o M Co P A M N P y A F N i N y A N C i A L S T A T e M e N T S F FiiN NA AN NC CiiA AL L S ST TA AT Te eM Me eN NT TS S for the year ended 31 December 2013 for the year ended 31 December 2013 A ACCouNTiNG PoLiCieS The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the year and the previous year.
The particular policies adopted by the directors are described below.
Going concern The directors have made enquiries and have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
basis of accounting These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the historical cost convention.
Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currency are translated at the rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the rates ruling at that date.
These translation differences are dealt with in the profit for the year.
Property, plant and equipment Tangible fixed assets are carried at cost less any accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at rates ranging between: Freehold land Nil Freehold buildings 2% Leasehold property Over period of lease Computer hardware 33.3% Computer software 33.3% Furniture and office equipment 33.3% Plant and equipment 10% to 20% The costs of operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account as they accrue.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Company expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using an appropriate rate that takes into account the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
investments Investments are stated at cost less provision for any impairment in value.
Pensions The Company operates two principal pension schemes for the benefit of permanent members of staff: the Interserve Pension Scheme which is of the defined benefit type and the Interserve Retirement Plan which is of the defined contribution type.
The Company also set up a new defined contribution section of the Interserve Pension Scheme with effect from 1 November 2002.
Actuarial valuations of the Interserve Pension Scheme are carried out every three years.
For the purposes of FRS 17 Retirement benefits, the Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities in the main Group scheme, the Interserve Pension Scheme, on a consistent and reasonable basis.
Therefore, the Company will account for contributions to the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme.
Note 30 to the Annual Report and Financial Statements of the Group sets out details of the IAS 19 net pension liability of 7.7 million for the Company 2012: 101.1 million.
For defined contribution schemes, the amount recognised in the profit and loss account is equal to the contributions payable to the schemes during the year.
The defined benefit scheme was closed on 31 December 2009 with the exception of passport members.
All non-passport members transferred to the defined contribution scheme as at 1 January 2010.
