66 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED reviewing the promotion of the Companys brand: COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE The Financial Conduct Authority requires the Company setting the Groups annual budget and plan: to disclose how it has applied the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in September 2012 approval of the annual and half-year report: the Code and whether there has been compliance with its provisions throughout the financial year.
In the case of declaration of the interim and recommendation of non-compliance, the Company must specify those provisions the final dividend: with which it has not complied and give reasons for this.
ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal The Code may be found on the Financial Reporting Councils controls and an effective risk management and assurance website www.
strategy: The directors consider that the Company has complied fully monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups Health and with the provisions of the Code applicable to it throughout Safety Policy: the accounting period ended 31 December 2013 with the following exception: control over major contracts including joint ventures and capital expenditure: and Provision B.
1.2 of the Code requires at least half the board, excluding the Chairman, to comprise non-executive monitoring progress with the Groups SustainAbilities Plan.
directors determined by the board to be independent.
As at year end, the Board comprised five executive and four Board composition non-executive directors plus the Chairman.
The Board The role of the Group Chairman and Chief Executive are believes that the diversity of skills and experience which split and clearly defined in written terms of reference.
the executive directors bring to the Board particularly in relation to their own operating divisions is more valuable The role of the Chairman than maintaining parity between the number of executive The Group Chairman is responsible for the leadership of and non-executive directors.
Furthermore, the Board the Board and creating the conditions for overall Board and considers its non-executive directors to be sufficiently individual director effectiveness, both inside and outside independent and of such calibre and number that their the boardroom.
The Group Chairman regularly considers views may be expected to be of sufficient weight that succession planning and the Boards composition with the no individual or small group can dominate the Boards Nomination Committee and ensures effective communication decision-making processes.
with shareholders and other stakeholders.
THE BOARD The Group Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, sets the agenda for Board meetings and ensures that Board Operation of the Board members receive timely information and are briefed on The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for issues arising at Board meetings to assist them in making its decision, whilst day-to-day operational decisions are an effective contribution.
managed by the Executive Board, as referred to on page 68.
The role of the Chief Executive In order to facilitate the efficient use of its time the Board The Chief Executive bears primary responsibility for the has delegated certain of its powers to Board committees, management of the Group and in leading the formulation details of which are set out later in this report.
From time to of and, once set by the Board, implementing strategy.
time the Board also establishes certain other committees to The Chief Executive chairs the Executive Board and Risk deal with a specific issue which the Board has approved.
Committee, leads the executive management team and Key matters dealt with by the Board during the course of the investor communications and is responsible for social and year, in addition to ongoing monitoring of the operational ethical matters within the Group.
and financial performance of the Group, were: The role of the Company Secretary The Company Secretary is responsible for distributing Board setting the health, safety and environmental targets for papers and other information sufficiently far in advance of each the Group: meeting for the directors to be properly briefed, presenting reviewing the Groups strategic direction, governance, certain papers to the Board and its committees, advising on ethics, values and reputation risk management: Board procedures and ensuring the Board follows them.
reviewing IT in the Support Services business and its use The Board papers include information from management on more generally to obtain competitive advantage: financial, business and corporate issues.
Matters requiring Board and committee approval are generally the subject of a the assessment of a number of potential acquisitions written proposal and circulated as part of the Board papers.
including the proposed acquisition of the facilities The Company Secretary plays a key role in the good governance services business of Rentokil Initial plc:
