64 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING RESOLUTIONS The resolutions to be proposed at the AGM to be held on 13 May 2014, together with the explanatory notes, appear in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting accompanying this Annual Report.
The Notice is also available on our website at www.
Interserve House Approved by the Board of directors Ruscombe Park and signed on behalf of the Board Twyford Reading Berkshire RG10 9JU T Bradbury Company Secretary 28 February 2014 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT The Directors Report the Report set out above including the sections of the Annual Report and Accounts incorporated by reference is the management report for the purposes of paragraph 4.1.
8R of the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Report has been prepared solely for existing members of the Company in compliance with UK company law and the Listing, Prospectus, and Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the FCA.
The Company, the directors and employees accept no responsibility to any other person for anything contained in the Report.
The directors liability for the Report is limited, as provided in the 2006 Act.
The Companys auditors report to the Board whether, in their opinion, the information given in the Report is consistent with the financial statements, but the Report is not audited.
Statements made in this Report reflect the knowledge and information available at the time of its preparation.
The Report contains forward-looking statements in respect of the Groups operations, performance, prospects and financial condition.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty.
In particular, outcomes often differ from plans or expectations expressed through forward-looking statements, and such differences may be significant.
Assurance cannot be given that any particular expectation will be met.
No responsibility is accepted to update or revise any forward-looking statement, resulting from new information, future events or otherwise.
Liability arising from anything in this Annual Report and Financial Statements shall be governed by English law.
Nothing in this Annual Report and Financial Statements should be construed as a profit forecast.
