over overview view ST STr rA AT Te eG GiiC C re reP Por orT T G Gover overNANC finance e F FiiNANC NANCiiAL AL ST STA AT Te eM Me eNTS NTS iNT iNTer erS Ser erve five A ANN NNu uAL AL r re eP Por orT T 2013 2013 F FiiNANC NANCiiAL AL ST STA AT Te eM Me eNTS NTS N No oT Te eS S T To o T The he C Co oMP MPAN ANy y F FiiNANC NANCiiAL AL ST STA AT Te eM Me eNTS NTS 151151 N N o o T T e e S S T T oo T h T e h Ce o M Co P A M N P y A F N i N y A N C i A L S T A T e M e N T S F FiiN NA AN NC CiiA AL L S ST TA AT Te eM Me eN NT TS S for the year ended 31 December 2013 for the year ended 31 December 2013 A ACCouNTiNG PoLiCieS The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the year and the previous year.
The particular policies adopted by the directors are described below.
Going concern The directors have made enquiries and have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
basis of accounting These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the historical cost convention.
Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currency are translated at the rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the rates ruling at that date.
These translation differences are dealt with in the profit for the year.
Property, plant and equipment Tangible fixed assets are carried at cost less any accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at rates ranging between: Freehold land Nil Freehold buildings 2% Leasehold property Over period of lease Computer hardware 33.3% Computer software 33.3% Furniture and office equipment 33.3% Plant and equipment 10% to 20% The costs of operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account as they accrue.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Company expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using an appropriate rate that takes into account the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
investments Investments are stated at cost less provision for any impairment in value.
Pensions The Company operates two principal pension schemes for the benefit of permanent members of staff: the Interserve Pension Scheme which is of the defined benefit type and the Interserve Retirement Plan which is of the defined contribution type.
The Company also set up a new defined contribution section of the Interserve Pension Scheme with effect from 1 November 2002.
Actuarial valuations of the Interserve Pension Scheme are carried out every three years.
For the purposes of FRS 17 Retirement benefits, the Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities in the main Group scheme, the Interserve Pension Scheme, on a consistent and reasonable basis.
Therefore, the Company will account for contributions to the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme.
Note 30 to the Annual Report and Financial Statements of the Group sets out details of the IAS 19 net pension liability of 7.7 million for the Company 2012: 101.1 million.
For defined contribution schemes, the amount recognised in the profit and loss account is equal to the contributions payable to the schemes during the year.
The defined benefit scheme was closed on 31 December 2009 with the exception of passport members.
All non-passport members transferred to the defined contribution scheme as at 1 January 2010.
152 iNTerServe ANNuAL rePorT 2013 FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS NoTeS To The CoMPANy FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS NoTeS To The CoMPANy FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS CONTINUeD A ACCouNTiNG PoLiCieS CONTINUeD Taxation Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation of fixed assets where there is no commitment to sell the asset, or on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries or associates where there is no commitment to remit these earnings.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Financial instruments Debtors Debtors are measured at fair value.
Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in the income statement where there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Creditors Creditors are measured at fair value.
equity instruments equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Transactions in derivative financial instruments are for risk management purposes only.
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk.
To the extent that such instruments are matched to underlying assets or liabilities, they are accounted for using hedge accounting.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is taken out and subsequently remeasured at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Changes in fair value of derivative instruments that are designated as, and effective as, hedges of future cash flows and net investments are recognised directly in the other income statement.
Any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled through the income statement in the same period in which the underlying hedged item is recognised in the income statement.
However, when the transaction that is being hedged results in a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously accumulated in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of that asset or liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity at that time is retained in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, any cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement for the period.
Changes in fair value of derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting, or have not been designated as hedges, are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
These derivative instruments are designated as fair value through the profit or loss.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their economic risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value.
Share-based payments The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 20 Share-based payment.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, FRS 20 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after November 2002 that were unvested as at January 2004.
The Company issues sharebased payments to certain employees of the Group headed by the Company.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Companys estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value for grants pre-2006 was measured by the use of the Black-Scholes model and subsequently a stochastic model was used.
Note 29 to the Annual Report and Financial Statements of the Group sets out details of the share-based payments.
The total value of equity-settled share-based payments is credited to the profit and loss reserve of the Company.
Share-based payments to employees of subsidiaries of the Company are recharged to the relevant employer and the recharged income is credited to the profit and loss account of the Company.
