70 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Because of the limitations that are inherent in any system Operational controls of internal control, the Groups system of internal control The principal features of the Groups system of operational is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of control are: failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide An established management structure comprising reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material the Board with its various committees and an misstatement or loss.
The Groups governance framework Executive Board.
distinguishes between entities which are wholly controlled and joint ventures and associate companies in which the Executive Board and Board review of the monthly finance Group does not have overall control.
For these joint ventures and divisional trading reports.
and associate companies, systems of internal control are applied as agreed between the Group and the other jointDocumented delegated authority limits which are kept venture parties or members of the associate company, as under regular review.
Larger value proposals and business the case may be.
acquisitions and disposals are controlled by the Board.
Financial reporting Manuals setting out Group policy and procedures, with Based on submissions from the trading divisions, a budget which all Group companies must comply.
is prepared by the Group for approval by the Board before the start of each financial year.
Subsequently, forecasts of The Group has certain key areas which are subject to prospective financial performance are prepared as at the central management or control, which include health, end of March, May and September of each year.
Budgets and safety and environmental policies, legal, insurance, forecasts include the financial results, financial position and tax and treasury, real estate, internal and external cash flows for each division and the Group Centre.
communication, investor relations, information technology network services and operating systems, The Group has risk management systems and documented human resources and company secretarial.
These accounting policies and procedures to be applied by all functions report to members of the Executive Board.
entities in the Group in submitting their financial statements for consolidation to ensure that adequate accounting records One or more members of the Executive Board and, in are maintained and transactions are recorded accurately many cases, either the Chief Executive or the Group and fairly to permit the preparation of consolidated financial Finance Director, attend divisional board meetings.
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.
During the course of each year members of the Executive Board or other senior operational and financial Each month, every entity within the Group submits management visit or review all trading companies to management accounts in local currency to the Group discuss and monitor the performance of those businesses.
The consolidated management accounts The Group has in place a whistleblowing policy which include the financial results, financial position, cash flows sets out a framework for dealing with any allegations and projections and are submitted, along with analytical of fraud, financial misreporting and any whistleblowing commentary, to the Executive Board and subsequently the notification.
A copy of the policy is available on the Board for review.
The management accounts submitted by members of the Group for June and December are used to prepare the halfOUR INVESTORS yearly and annual financial statements.
The Group Finance The Company encourages two-way communication with team reviews the disclosures in the financial statements to both institutional and private investors.
The Chief Executive, ensure that they comply with applicable reporting standards.
accompanied by the Group Finance Director, attended The half-yearly and annual financial statements are reviewed 30 meetings with analysts and institutional investors during by the Executive Board, the Audit Committee and the Board the year ended 31 December 2013.
In addition, the Chief before publication.
Executive and the Group Finance Director attended a further 10 and 14 meetings, respectively.
The financial reporting process is reviewed periodically by internal audit in accordance with the programme approved One-to-one meetings with shareholders focus on such by the Audit Committee each year.
matters as Group strategy, operational performance, market trends, macro-economic influences, financial performance, A summary of the key financial risks inherent in the Groups merger and acquisition ambitions, peer group issues, the business is given on page 50 a description of how the Group political environment and progress of key bids and key manages those risks is set out on page 35. contract renewals.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 71 One-to-one and group meetings with analysts focus on the above issues and in addition the key factors which influence analysts financial forecasts, with a view to ensuring market consensus is based on accurate and up-to-date information, properly interpreted.
Communication with financial investors involves their attendance at half-year and full-year results presentations, site visits and capital markets days.
There is also a programme of regular one-to-one meetings during which all matters covered in shareholder meetings are discussed, together with specific issues pertinent to the Companys debt finance such as covenant compliance, new facilities or renewal and the availability of ancillary services.
The Companys brokers produce periodic notes of the feedback from institutional investors which are reported to the Board to enable it to develop an understanding of the views of the major investors regarding the Company.
All directors and the members of the Executive Board also have the opportunity to attend analyst briefings.
The Groups annual and half-yearly results, interim management statements, trading updates, presentations given to analysts and all announcements made through the RIS are published on the Companys website at www.
All shareholders are given at least 20 working days notice of the AGM.
It is standard practice for all directors to attend the AGM to which all shareholders are invited and at which they may put questions to the chairmen of the various committees or the Board generally.
The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions which may be recorded on the proxy form accompanying the notice of AGM are counted before the AGM commences and are made available to shareholders at the close of the formal business of the meeting.
The proxy votes are also announced through the RIS and posted on the Companys website shortly after the close of the meeting.
