Group Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1 General information The Group Financial Statements of Invensys plc for the year ended 31 March 2013 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on 15 May 2013 and the balance sheet was signed on the Boards behalf by Wayne Edmunds and David Thomas.
Invensys plc is a limited company incorporated and domiciled in England & Wales whose shares are publicly traded.
Invensys Group comprises continuing operations and discontinued operations.
Invensys Rail has been classi ed as discontinued following the decision to sell the division in the current year, and the sale completed subsequent to the year end Note 35.
Discontinued operations also include additional costs incurred relating to prior year disposals.
Operations presented as discontinued are explained in Note 10.
During the year ended 31 March 2013, Invensys consisted of the following divisions: Invensys Operations Management, Invensys Controls and Invensys Rail.
The principal activities of each of the divisions are as follows: Continuing operations Invensys Operations Management is a technology, software and consulting business that creates and applies technologies to enable the safe and ef cient operation of industrial and commercial operations such as oil re neries, fossil fuel and nuclear power plants, petrochemical works and other manufacturing sites.
Invensys Controls designs, engineers and manufactures products, components, systems and services used in appliances, heating, air conditioning cooling and refrigeration products across a wide range of industries in residential and commercial markets.
Discontinued operations Invensys Rail provided software-based signalling, communication and control systems that enabled the safe and ef cient operation of trains in mainline and mass transit networks across the world.
The Group was managed on the above basis during the year.
Further detail on the activities of each of the above divisions is given in the Business Review section of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The basis on which the Group will be managed going forward is explained in the Our Business at a Glance and Our Business Model sections.
2 Accounting policies Statement of compliance The Groups consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Basis of preparation The accounting policies which follow set out the policies and measurement bases that have been applied in preparing the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013.
The consolidated Financial Statements are presented in sterling and all amounts are rounded to the nearest million m unless otherwise indicated.
Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except as follows: The Group has adopted the following amended IFRSs during the year.
All have been endorsed for use in the EU.
IFRS 1 Amendments to IFRS 1 Severe Hyperin ation and Removal of Fixed Dates for First-Time Adopters IFRS 7 Amendments to IFRS 7 Disclosures: Transfers of Assets IAS 12 Amendments to IAS 12 Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets Adoption of these standards has not had any material effect on the Financial Statements of the Group.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated Financial Statements comprise Invensys plc and its subsidiaries for the financial year to 31 March each year.
The Group does not currently have any material associates.
The Financial Statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the Parent Company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intragroup balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired during the year are consolidated up to, or from, the date control passes.
Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of the business combination is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value, and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
For each business combination, any non-controlling interest in the acquiree is measured either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identi able net assets.
Consideration transferred includes any contingent consideration measured at its acquisition date fair value.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability, will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in pro t or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income.
Contingent consideration that quali es for classi cation as equity is not remeasured until it is nally settled.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed.
Any excess of the cost of the acquisition over the net identi able assets acquired is recognised as goodwill in the balance sheet.
If the cost is lower than the net identi able assets acquired, the difference is recognised in pro t or loss.
Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.
com 85 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it: derecognises the assets including goodwill and liabilities of the subsidiary: derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest: derecognises the cumulative translation differences, recorded in equity: recognises the fair value of the consideration received: recognises the fair value of any investment retained: recognises any surplus or fide cit in pro t or loss: and reclassi es the parents share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to pro t or loss or retained earnings, as appropriate.
If a subsidiary with a non-controlling interest incurs losses, the non-controlling interests share in those losses is attributed to noncontrolling interests in equity even if that results in a fide cit balance.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are material items of income and expense that are separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the Groups financial performance and in making projections of future results.
Such items may be operating or non-operating in nature.
Exceptional items are presented separately on the face of the income statement and analysed in the Notes to the Financial Statements.
Foreign currencies The presentational currency of the Group and functional currency of Invensys plc is sterling.
The Financial Statements for each of the Groups subsidiaries are prepared using their functional currency.
The functional currency is generally the currency of the primary economic environment in which an entity operates.
Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in the income statement unless: a the monetary assets or liabilities to which they relate form the hedging instrument in a cash ow hedging relationship that quali es for hedge accounting: or b the monetary assets or liabilities to which they relate form part of a net investment in a foreign operation: in which case they are recognised directly in equity.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the date of the initial transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated at the rates prevailing when the fair value was determined.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the income statement for the period, except for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity.
Financial statements of foreign operations The trading results of foreign subsidiaries are translated into sterling at average rates of exchange ruling during the year.
Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries, including goodwill, are translated into sterling at closing rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All resulting exchange differences are recognised directly in a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation, any cumulative exchange differences held in equity are transferred to the consolidated income statement, as part of the pro t or loss on sale.
Translation differences that arose before the date of transition to IFRSs 1 April 2004 were deemed to be zero at that date.
As a result, ifa foreign operation is sold, there is no exchange difference recognised in the income statement relating to the period prior to that date.
Revenue Composition of revenue Revenue comprises the invoiced value of goods and services supplied by the Group excluding intragroup transactions and sales taxes.
Revenue relating to construction contracts, including long-term service provision contracts, represents the value of work performed during the year determined by reference to the stage of completion of the contract.
Discounts given to customers against list prices, such as trade or volume discounts, are deducted in arriving at the value of revenue.
Settlement discounts are reported as an expense in the income statement.
Recognition of revenue and pro ts Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic bene ts will ow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
The speci c methods used to recognise the different forms of revenue earned by the Group are set out below.
Sale of goods Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the signi cant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer including a distributor or a wholesaler and the amount of revenue can be reliably measured.
For sales of software solutions, revenue is recognised when a signed contract exists, delivery to the customer has occurred, no signi cant vendor obligations remain and collection of the sales proceeds is considered probable.
Revenue is recognised on software sales made via a distributor or systems integrator when there is an agreement in place between Invensys and the distributor or systems integrator, and the distributor or systems integrator has provided evidence of onward sale of the licence to an end user.
A contract to deliver goods, including software solutions, that requires signi cant production, modi cation, customisation or integration of the goods, is accounted for in its entirety as a construction contract.
Pro t is recognised at the time of sale.
86 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements Construction contracts and rendering of services Revenue from construction contracts and long-term service provision contracts is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is normally determined by the proportion that contract costs incurred to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, except where this would not be representative of the stage of completion.
If the nature of a particular contract means that costs incurred do not accurately re ect the progress of contract activity, an alternative approach is used such as the achievement of prede termined contract milestones.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included in revenue from construction contracts when certain criteria are met.
Variations are included when the customer has agreed to the variation or acknowledged liability for the variation in principle.
Claims are included when negotiations with the customer have reached an advanced stage such that the customer is certain to accept the claim.
Incentive payments are included when a contract is suf ciently advanced that it is probable that the performance standards triggering the incentive will be achieved.
Pro t attributable to contract activity is recognised if the final outcome of such contracts can be reliably assessed.
On all contracts, full provision is made for any losses in the year in which they are first foreseen.
Revenue from services provided on a short-term or one-off basis is recognised when the service is complete.
When a transaction combines a supply of goods with the provision of a signi cant service, revenue from the provision of the service is recognised separately from the revenue from the sale of goods by reference to the stage of completion of the service unless the service is essential to the functionality of the goods supplied, in which case the whole transaction is treated as a construction contract.
Revenue from a service that is incidental to the supply of goods is recognised at the same time as the revenue from the supply of goods.
Research and development All research expenditure is expensed as incurred.
Development expenditure is expensed as incurred unless it meets the criteria for recognition as an intangible asset see policy on Other intangible assets.
Pension costs and other post-retirement bene ts For fide ned bene t plans, the service cost of providing retirement bene ts to employees during the year is charged to operating pro t or loss in the year.
The cost of providing bene ts under the fide ned bene t plans is determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
The full cost of providing amendments to bene ts in respect of past service that vest immediately is also charged to operating pro t or loss in the year.
The expected return on the assets, of the schemes during the year, based on the market value of scheme assets at the start of the financial year is included within Other finance charges IAS 19.
This also includes a charge representing the expected increase in liabilities of the schemes during the year, arising from the liabilities of the scheme being one year closer to payment.
Differences between actual and expected returns on assets during the year are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the year, together with experience gains or losses arising on the scheme liabilities and differences from changes in assumptions.
The net surplus or fide cit on fide ned bene t pension schemes is reported on the balance sheet within the pension asset or liability.
The value of any fide ned bene t asset recognised is restricted to the present value of any economic bene ts available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in the future contributions to the plan.
When the Group is committed to making minimum funding payments to a fide ned bene t plan, and the present value of the agreed funding payments exceeds the liability in respect of the plan as measured under IFRSs, a provision is recognised for any part of the resulting surplus that would not be recoverable.
For fide ned contribution schemes the amount charged to the income statement in respect of pension costs is the contributions payable in the year.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown either as accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Goodwill On a business combination the identi able net assets are assessed and adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies of the business acquired into alignment with those of the Group.
The excess of the aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of consideration transferred and the amount recognised for any non-controlling interest in the acquiree over the identi able net assets acquired is included in intangible assets as goodwill.
Any costs of integrating the acquired business are taken to the income statement.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired, and it is subsequently carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
The Groups policy on testing assets for impairment is set out under Impairment of nonfinancial assets on page 88.
Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the business sold.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is the fair value at acquisition date.
The cost of separately acquired intangible assets, including computer software, comprises the purchase price and any directly attributable costs of preparing the asset for use.
Amortisation begins when an asset is available for use and is calculated on a straight-line basis to allocate the cost less residual value of assets over their estimated useful lives using the following annual rates or useful lives: Development costs 10 to 25% Computer software costs 10 to 25% Patents, trademarks and licences Shorter of period of the agreement or 15 years Customer-related intangible assets 6-8 years Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.
com 87 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Useful lives are examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
No intangible assets other than goodwill are considered to have inde nite useful lives.
Expenditure incurred on development projects is capitalised as an intangible asset if it meets the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38, Intangible Assets.
These require it to be probable that the expenditure will generate future economic bene ts and can be measured reliably.
To meet these criteria, it is necessary to be able to demonstrate, among other things, the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale.
Costs incurred in the preliminary stage of a development project are considered to be research costs, and are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
These costs are incurred to determine the product concepts and alternatives, evaluate the alternatives and related risks, assess the technical feasibility of concepts, make the final selection from the possible alternatives and prepare the high level design and project planning.
The costs incurred in the following development stage for substantially new or improved products are assessed against the IAS 38 criteria and considered for recognition as an asset when they meet those criteria.
These costs are generally incurred in developing the detailed product design, software con guration and software interfaces: the coding of software, building of prototypes and integration of the software with hardware: and testing and releasing the product to manufacture and pilot production.
Development expenditure directed towards incremental improvements in existing products does not qualify for recognition as an intangible asset.
In general the costs of developing software products that are sold in packaged form and not integrated and sold with hardware are not recognised as intangible assets.
The uncertainties associated with the functionality of these products mean that technical feasibility is achieved only immediately prior to or after eld trial tests at customer sites.
As a result minimal or no costs are considered to meet the IAS38 criteria for recognition.
An intangible asset acquired in a business combination is recognised separately from the goodwill arising on the business combination if the assets fair value can be measured reliably, regardless of whether the asset had been recognised previously by the acquiree.
Property, plant and equipment Items of property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises purchase price and directly attributable costs.
Items of property, plant and equipment are depreciated to their residual values on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives at the following rates applied to original cost: Freehold land nil Freehold buildings 2 to 2.5% Leasehold properties Over the period of the lease Plant and equipment 7 to 35% Useful lives and residual values are examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Impairment of nonfinancial assets At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that any nonfinancial asset excluding goodwill may be impaired.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually whether or not there is any indication of impairment.
If there is an indication of impairment, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount the asset is written down to its recoverable amount and an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset.
If the asset does not generate cash in ows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs is determined.
The calculation of an assets value in use uses a discount rate that re ects the asset speci c risks and the time value of money.
Leased assets Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in property, plant and equipment at fair value or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Capitalised leased assets are subsequently depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or the assets useful life.
Obligations related to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included as appropriate within liabilities.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Other leases are classi ed as operating leases.
Lease payments, including any premium paid at the outset of the lease, made under operating leases are recognised as an expense over the lease term on a straight-line basis.
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at its inception date and an assessment of whether the ful lment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a speci c asset, or assets, or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
A reassessment is made after inception of the lease only if one of the following applies: a there is a change in contractual terms, other than a renewal or extension of the arrangement: b a renewal option is exercised or extension granted, unless the term of the renewal or extension was initially included in the lease term: c there is a change in the determination of whether ful lment is dependent on a speci ed asset: or d there is a substantial change to the asset.
88 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements Where a reassessment is made, lease accounting commences or ceases from the date when the change in circumstances gave rise to the reassessment for scenarios a, c or d and at the date of renewal or extension period for scenario b.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value.
Provision is made for obsolete and slow-moving items.
Costcomprises the cost of raw materials, determined on a first-in, first-out cost basis, and an appropriate proportion of labour and manufacturing overheads based on normal operating capacity, to re ect the costs incurred in bringing the product to its present location and condition.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, call deposits and other short-term liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Cash and short-term deposits at the balance sheet date are offset against bank loans and overdrafts where formal rights of set-off exist and there is an intention to settle on a net basis.
Taxation Income tax on pro t or loss Income tax on the pro t or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Current tax The current tax payable is based on taxable pro t for the year and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Taxable pro t differs from pro t reported in the income statement as it excludes items that are never taxable or deductible, or which are taxable or deductible in other years.
The Groups current tax assets and liabilities are calculated using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable pro t will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
No deferred income tax asset or liability is recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries where the Group is able to control the timing of reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Such assets and liabilities are also not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of assets other than goodwill or liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable pro t nor the accounting pro t. A deferred income tax asset is recognised on the initial recognition of goodwill arising in a business combination if the carrying amount of the goodwill is less than its tax base and the deferred income tax asset quali es for recognition.
Nodeferred income tax liability is recognised as a result of the initial recognition of goodwill.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that suf cient taxable pro t will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it is probable that suf cient taxable pro t will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred income tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset only if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Financial instruments Derivative financial instruments The Group primarily uses forward foreign currency contracts to manage its exposures to uctuations in foreign exchange rates.
These instruments are accounted for as hedges when they are designated as hedges at the inception of the contract.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for financial trading purposes.
All derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value in the balance sheet.
The fair values of forward foreign exchange contracts are calculated by reference to forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity pro les.
The designation of derivative financial instruments as hedges is carried out according to the Groups risk management policies.
Hedges fall into three categories: a F air value hedges, which hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: b Cash ow hedges, which hedge exposure to variability in cash ows that is attributable to either a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction, or the foreign currency risk of a rm commitment: and c N et investment hedges, which hedge exposure to changes in the value of the Groups net investment in foreign operations due to changes in exchange rates.
com 89 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued The accounting treatment for these categories is as follows: Fair value hedges When a hedging instrument is remeasured at fair value, any resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and similarly recognised in the income statement.
Cash ow and net investment hedges The portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity.
Any ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
When a hedged cash ow related to a hedged item results in the recognition of a nonfinancial asset or liability, the associated gains or losses previously recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For all other cash ow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects the income statement.
In the case of a net investment hedge, this takes place on disposal.
Where borrowings are used to hedge the Groups net investment in foreign operations, the portion of the gain or loss on the borrowings that is determined to be an effective hedge, in accordance with IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, is recognised in equity.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify as hedges are recognised in the income statement.
Derivative instruments held by the Groups pension and post-retirement bene t schemes are accounted for within the schemes themselves and are re ected in the Group Financial Statements within the amounts reported for those schemes.
Other financial assets Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairment.
Trade and other receivables are discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
Any change in their value is recognised in the income statement.
Debt instruments All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of the consideration received less directly attributable issue costs.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
This cost is computed as the amount initially recognised minus principal repayments, plus or minus the cumulative amortisation of any difference between the initially recognised amount and the maturity amount.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement through the amortisation process and when the liabilities are derecognised.
Financial guarantee contracts A financial guarantee contract is a contract issued by the Group that requires the Group to make speci ed payments to reimburse the holder of the guarantee for a loss it incurs because a speci ed debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the original or modi ed terms of a debt instrument.
In a very limited number of cases, the Group has issued such contracts to guarantee certain borrowings by third parties.
Financial guarantee contracts are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at the higher of: a the estimated out ow of resources required to meet any present obligation under the contract in accordance with IAS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets : and b the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance with IAS 18, Revenue.
Derecognition of financial instruments A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modi ed, such an exchange or modi cation is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
Impairment of financial assets At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost Assets carried at amortised cost, such as loans and receivables, are impaired if there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been incurred.
The loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows excluding future expected credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance account and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
The assessment considers whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually signi cant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually signi cant.
If it is determined that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment.
Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment.
If the amount of a recognised impairment loss decreases in a subsequent period, and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
The reversal is recognised in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
90 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements For trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence such as the probability of insolvency or signi cant financial dif culties of the debtor that the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice.
The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account.
Impaired debts are derecognised when they are assessed as uncollectible.
Share-based payment The Group operates various equity-settled and cash-settled share schemes.
For equity-settled share options and share awards, the services received from employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the share options.
The fair value is calculated at grant date using a valuation model and recognised in the consolidated income statement, together with a corresponding increase in shareholders equity, on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of options that will eventually vest.
Vesting conditions, other than market conditions, are not taken into account when estimating the fair value.
Market conditions are those conditions that are linked to the share price of the Company.
For equity-settled share award schemes, the fair value is calculated based on the share price at the grant date and, where applicable, any market vesting conditions, and expensed over the vesting period based on the number of shares expected to vest.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition: which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satis ed, provided that all other performance or service conditions are satis ed.
Where the terms of an equity-settled transaction award are modi ed, the minimum expense recognised is the expense as if the terms had not been modi ed, if the original terms of the award are met.
An additional expense is recognised for any modi cation that increases the total fair value of the share-based payment transaction, or is otherwise bene cial to the employee as measured at the date of modi cation.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
This includes any award where non-vesting conditions within the control of either the entity or the employee are not met.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modi cation of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
For cash-settled share awards, the services received from employees are measured at fair value and recognised in the consolidated income statement as an expense over the vesting period with recognition of a corresponding liability.
The fair value of the liability is remeasured at each reporting date and at the date of settlement with changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Treasury shares Own equity instruments which are re-acquired treasury shares are deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in pro t or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups own equity instruments.
Treasury shares are purchased and held by the Employee Share Trust to meet future distributions of shares to employees under the Groups various share option and share award schemes.
New standards and interpretations not applied The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these Financial Statements: Effective date financial periods International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs beginning on or after IAS 1 Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income 1 July 2012 IFRS 1 Amendments to IFRS 1 Government Loans 1 January 2013 IFRS 7 Amendments to IFRS 7 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2013 IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 1 January 2013 IAS 19 IAS 19 Employee Bene ts Revised 1 January 2013 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and subsequent amendments 1 January 2014 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and subsequent amendments 1 January 2014 IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities and subsequent amendments 1 January 2014 IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements 2011 and subsequent amendments 1 January 2014 IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 2011 1 January 2014 IAS 32 Amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2014 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classi cation and Measurement and subsequent amendments 1 January 2015 Various Improvements to IFRSs 2009-2011 1 January 2013 Effective date financial periods International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC beginning on or after IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine 1 January 2013 The effective dates shown are those set by the International Accounting Standards Board except for those standards and interpretations that have been endorsed for use in the EU with a later effective date.
Currently such later effective dates apply to IFRSs 10, 11 and 12: IASs 27 and 28: and their subsequent amendments.
The Group expects to adopt these standards and interpretations in accordance with their effective dates under IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
com 91 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued The revision of IAS 19 is expected to have an impact on the amounts recognised in pro t or loss and other comprehensive income for the Groups fide ned bene t pension plans.
Under the revision, the return on plan assets recognised in pro t or loss within Other finance charges IAS 19 will be calculated using a plans discount rate, rather than its expected rate of return on plan assets.
Assuming that the discount rate is lower than the expected rate of return on plan assets, this will result in an increase in the net charge recognised as Other finance charges IAS 19 within pro t or loss.
The extent of the impact will depend on the discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets that apply when the revision is first adopted in the financial year ending 31 March 2014.
There will be a corresponding change in the amount recognised in other comprehensive income, so that the net impact on total comprehensive income will be nil.
Had the revised IAS 19 been effective in the current period, there would have been no net impact on Other finance charges IAS 19, however an additional charge to operating pro t would have been incurred in respect of administration costs.
Other than the revision of IAS 19 noted above, the directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group Financial Statements in the period of initial application.
3 Critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions In applying the Groups accounting policies, management is required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions concerning the future in a number of areas.
Actual results may be different from those estimated using these judgements and assumptions.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical accounting judgements that have a signi cant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Construction and long-term service provision contracts Invensys Operations Management and Invensys Rail undertake projects that frequently span more than one accounting period and are accounted for as construction or long-term service provision contracts.
The Groups accounting policies for these projects require revenue and costs to be allocated to individual accounting periods and the consequent recognition at period end of contract assets or liabilities for projects still in progress.
The application of these policies requires management to apply judgement in estimating the total revenue and total costs expected on each project.
Such estimates are revised as a project progresses to re ect the current status of the project and the latest information available to management.
Project management teams perform regular reviews to ensure the latest estimates are appropriate.
The amount of revenue relating to projects accounted for as construction or long-term service provision contracts recognised within continuing operations in the year ended 31 March 2013 was 747 million 2012: 652 million, and within discontinued operations 539million 2012: 581 million.
The net amount due from contract customers on projects in progress at 31 March 2013 was 21 million 2012: 56 million including Invensys Rail.
Further details of amounts due from and to contract customers are included in Note 16.
Impairment of goodwill The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an annual basis.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
Estimating a value in use amount requires management to make an estimate of the expected future cash ows from the cash-generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash ows.
The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 March 2013 was 297 million 2012: 289 million including Invensys Rail.
Details of the key assumptions used in testing for impairment and the sensitivity of the calculations to any reasonably possible change in those assumptions are given in Note 12.
Pension and post-retirement bene ts The cost of fide ned bene t pension plans and other post employment medical bene ts is determined using actuarial valuations.
The actuarial valuation involves making assumptions about discount rates, expected rates of return on assets, future salary increases, mortality rates and future pension increases.
Due to the long-term nature of these plans, such estimates are subject to signi cant uncertainty.
The net pension liability at 31 March 2013 was 427 million 2012: 426 million including Invensys Rail.
Further details, including an analysis of the sensitivity of the Invensys Pension Scheme UK and Invensys Pension Plan US to changes in the principal assumptions, are given in Note 25.
Development costs Costs incurred in developing new products are capitalised in accordance with the Groups accounting policy for other intangible assets.
These costs arise mainly in the Invensys Operations Management and Invensys Rail divisions.
Determining the amounts to be capitalised requires management to make assumptions and estimates regarding the expected future cash generation of new products and the expected period of bene ts.
At 31 March 2013, the carrying amount of capitalised development costs was 68 million 2012: 155 million including Invensys Rail.
Further details including an explanation of impairment losses recognised are given in Note 13.
Provisions and contingent liabilities The Group currently recognises provisions for a number of liabilities including environmental claims and onerous lease contracts.
The amounts recognised for provisions represent the best estimate of the probable out ow of resources embodying economic bene ts that will be required to settle these liabilities.
No provisions are recognised for contingent liabilities.
Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be con rmed only by uncertain future events, or current obligations that are not recognised because it is not probable that they will result in an out ow of resources embodying economic bene ts or because the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with suf cient reliability.
The determination of whether a liability should be disclosed as a contingent liability or recognised as a provision requires judgements tobe made on the existence of a present obligation and the probability of future events.
When a provision is required, the amount recognised is determined using judgements and assumptions, based on current knowledge, to estimate the amount and timing of future cash out ows arising from the liabilities.
At 31 March 2013, the estimated amount of liabilities requiring provisions was 186 million 2012:139 million including Invensys Rail.
Further details are given in Note 24.
Details of the Groups contingent liabilities are set out inNote 29.
92 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements 4 Operating segment information For management purposes, in the year ended 31 March 2013 the Group was organised into divisions based on their products and services and had three reportable segments : Invensys Operations Management, Invensys Rail and Invensys Controls.
There have been no changes to the composition of these operating segments during the year: however, Invensys Rail has been classi ed as a discontinued operation and was sold subsequent to the year end date Note 35.
Descriptions of the products and services provided by these divisions are set out in Note 1.
Operating results of each of these divisions are monitored separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Segment performance is evaluated primarily on operating pro t or loss before exceptional items as identi ed in the consolidated income statement.
Restructuring costs and impairment losses on operating assets, which are reported in the consolidated income statement as exceptional items, are also monitored at the segment level.
Other exceptional items, together with foreign exchange gains or losses, finance costs, finance income, finance charges relating to pension arrangements under IAS 19, Employee Bene ts and income tax are managed on a Group basis and are not allocated to operating segments.
Segment net assets liabilities comprise amounts considered to be net operating assets liabilities used for operating performance assessment.
Items not included in these net operating assets liabilities are identi ed in the reconciliation on page 95.
These segments are monitored by divisional chief executives and reviewed by the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Of cer.
Total Inter-company External Total Inter-company External 1 1 revenue revenue revenue revenue revenue revenue 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 Segment revenue m m m m m m Division Invensys Operations Management 1,344 9 1,335 1,283 11 1,272 Invensys Controls 458 1 457 493 1 492 Eliminations 10 10 12 12 Continuing operations 1,792 1,792 1,764 1,764 Invensys Rail 757 757 775 775 Discontinued operations 757 757 775 775 Total Group 2,549 2,549 2,539 2,539 1 Inter-company revenue is invoiced at prevailing market prices.
Operating Operating Operating Operating pro t loss pro t loss pro t loss pro t loss before before after after exceptional exceptional exceptional exceptional items items items items 2013 2012 2013 2012 Segment pro t m m m m Division Invensys Operations Management 146 96 103 90 Invensys Controls 27 35 5 25 Total segment 173 131 108 115 Corporate 42 38 65 55 Continuing operations 131 93 43 60 Invensys Rail 125 116 125 93 Discontinued operations 125 116 125 93 Total Group 256 209 168 153 Reconciliation to pro t before taxation: Finance costs 10 12 Finance income 1 3 Other finance charges IAS 19 19 4 Pro t from discontinued operations 125 93 Pro t before taxation continuing operations 15 47 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.
com 93 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 4 Operating segment information continued Depreciation Depreciation Amortisation Amortisation 2013 2012 2013 2012 Components of segment pro t: depreciation and amortisation m m m m Division Invensys Operations Management 15 14 15 14 Invensys Controls 15 17 Corporate 1 1 Continuing operations 31 32 15 14 Invensys Rail 3 5 16 17 Discontinued operations 3 5 16 17 Total Group 34 37 31 31 Loss pro t Loss on Other Other Impairment: Impairment: on sale of sale of operating operating 1 PPE PPE assets and assets and exceptional exceptional 2 3 Components of Restructuring Restructuring intangibles intangibles operations operations items items segment pro t: 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 other material items m m m m m m m m Division Invensys Operations Management 19 6 11 1 12 Invensys Controls 21 6 1 3 1 1 1 Corporate 8 6 2 3 18 9 Continuing operations 48 18 12 5 3 1 31 9 Invensys Rail 13 1 10 1 Discontinued operations 13 1 10 1 Total Group 48 31 13 15 3 1 30 9 1 PPE represents property, plant and equipment.
2 Other exceptional items in 2013 includes 23 million environmental provisions, 14 million surplus property provisions, 10 million Invensys Pension Plan US settlement gain and a 3 million pension past service cost.
3 Other exceptional items in 2012 includes 3 million relating to the Invensys Pension Plan US settlement loss.
External External revenue revenue 2013 2012 Revenue from external customers m m 1 Geographical analysis by origin United Kingdom 116 109 Other regions: Rest of Europe 380 397 United States 659 605 North America other 121 112 South America 133 138 Asia Paci c 262 276 Africa and Middle East 121 127 1,676 1,655 Continuing operations 1,792 1,764 2 Geographical analysis by destination United Kingdom 110 100 Other regions: Rest of Europe 376 402 United States 515 489 North America other 109 103 South America 146 153 Asia Paci c 360 342 Africa and Middle East 176 175 1,682 1,664 Continuing operations 1,792 1,764 1 Revenue is presented based on the location of the Invensys business making the supply.
2 Revenue is presented based on the location of the customer receiving the supply.
94 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements Net assets Net assets liabilities liabilities 2013 2012 Segment net assets liabilities m m Division Invensys Operations Management 240 189 Invensys Controls 144 157 Total segment net assets 384 346 Corporate 156 79 Continuing operations 228 267 1 Invensys Rail 221 183 Discontinued operations 221 183 Total Group 449 450 Reconciliation to total net assets liabilities : Intangible assets goodwill 297 289 Cash and cash equivalents 247 263 Pension liabilities 427 426 Other net assets held for sale Invensys Rail 24 Other borrowings, current and deferred income tax assets liabilities, and derivative financial instruments 63 Total net assets 605 576 1 The segment net assets of Invensys Rail for 2013 are classi ed as assets held for sale and liabilities held for sale on the balance sheet.
Further information is set out in Note 22.
Capex: Capex: Capex: Capex: intangibles intangibles PPE PPE other other 2013 2012 2013 2012 Components of segment assets: capital expenditure capex m m m m Division Invensys Operations Management 13 18 20 21 Invensys Controls 16 10 Corporate 2 Continuing operations 29 30 20 21 Invensys Rail 6 8 24 30 Discontinued operations 6 8 24 30 Total Group 35 38 44 51 NonNoncurrent current assets assets 2013 2012 1 Non-current assets m m 2 Geographical analysis by origin United Kingdom 195 229 Other regions: Rest of Europe 57 121 United States 231 252 North America other 33 31 South America 16 19 Asia Paci c 42 52 Africa and Middle East 5 6 384 481 579 710 1 Non-current assets for this purpose consist of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets goodwill, intangible assets other and other receivables.
In the current period this excludes such assets of Invensys Rail which are classi ed as assets held for sale.
In accordance with IFRS 5, the comparative period has not been restated and therefore includes the assets of Invensys Rail.
2 Information is presented based on the location of the assets.
Information about major customers The Group had no single external customer that accounted for 10% or more of the Groups total external revenue in the years ended 31 March 2013 or 31 March 2012.
com 95 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 5 Operating pro t and analysis of revenue 2013 2012 Continuing operations Notes m m Revenue 1,792 1,764 Cost of sales 1,174 1,192 Gross pro t 618 572 Distribution costs 9 10 Administrative costs 403 402 Research and development costs 75 67 Operating pro t before exceptional items 131 93 Restructuring costs 4 48 18 Other operating exceptional items: Settlement gain loss on pension bene ts 25 10 3 Past service cost on pension bene ts 25 3 Environmental provisions 23 6 Surplus property provisions 14 Other 1 Total other operating exceptional items 31 9 Impairment: property, plant and equipment 14 3 5 Impairment: intangible assets other 13 9 Pro t loss on sale of assets and operations 4 3 1 Exceptional items 88 33 Operating pro t 43 60 2013 2012 Continuing operations m m Analysis of revenue Sale of goods products 985 988 Sale of goods solutions 570 577 Rendering of services 237 199 Revenue 1,792 1,764 Finance income 1 3 Total revenue 1,793 1,767 Operating pro t from continuing operations has been arrived at after charging the following: 2013 2012 Notes m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14 31 32 1 Amortisation of intangible assets other 13 15 14 Total depreciation and amortisation expense 46 46 Operating lease payments 29 30 30 Employee bene ts expense 7 751 693 1 Of which 4 million 2012: 3 million is recorded within cost of sales, 9 million 2012: 8 million in research and development costs, and 2 million 2012: 3 million in administrative costs.
The disclosures related to discontinued operations are set out in Note 10.
96 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements 6 Fees for audit and other services The Group has recognised the following amounts payable to its Group auditor in respect of the fees for audit and other services provided to the Group.
2013 2012 m m Audit of the financial statements 1.5 1.5 Local statutory audits for subsidiaries 1.7 1.9 Fees for audit 3.2 3.4 Fees for non-audit services: 1 Audit-related assurance services 0.2 0.3 Taxation compliance services 1.5 1.3 2 Taxation advisory services 1.0 0.7 2 Other assurance services 1.0 3 Other non-audit services 0.2 0.4 Fees for non-audit services 3.9 2.7 Fees for audit and non-audit services 7.1 6.1 1 2013: includes 0.2 million 2012: 0.2 million for the half year review.
2 2013: taxation advisory services and other assurance services include 0.6 million 2012: nil and 1.0 million 2012: nil respectively in relation to the disposal of Invensys Rail of 1.3 million and the return of cash to shareholders of 0.3 million.
3 2013: includes 0.2 million 2012: 0.2 million for services in respect of a programme to rationalise the legal entities of the Group.
In addition Ernst & Young LLP received 0.1 million 2012: 0.1 million for the audit of the Group pension schemes.
7 Staff numbers and employee bene ts expense The average number of people employed by the Group including directors during the year was as follows: Total Group 2013 2012 Production 15,856 15,583 Marketing and distribution 2,081 2,080 Finance and administration 1,575 1,578 Research and development 1,306 1,393 20,818 20,634 The aggregate payroll costs of these people were as follows: 2013 2012 Total Group Notes m m Wages and salaries 826 781 Social security costs 62 63 Pension and post-retirement costs 25 39 37 Share-based payment expense 28 10 5 Other payroll costs 57 41 994 927 Details of directors remuneration are contained within the Remuneration Report on pages 57 to 7 2.
com 97 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 8 Finance costs and finance income 2013 2012 Continuing operations Note m m Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 1 1 Total interest expense for financial instruments not at fair value through pro t and loss 1 1 Credit facility fees 6 6 Amortisation of re nancing costs 1 1 Unwind of discount of provisions 24 1 1 Other 1 1 1 Exceptional finance costs 2 Finance costs 10 12 2 Bank interest receivable 1 3 Finance income 1 3 Net finance costs 9 9 1 2012: Relates to the write-off of capitalised facility fees for the multi-currency credit facility with a term of five years from July 2008 which was cancelled on 30 March 2012.
2 Total interest income for financial instruments not at fair value through pro t and loss.
9 Taxation i Analysis of income tax credit charge in the consolidated income statement Income tax credit charge recognised within the consolidated income statement is analysed as follows: 2013 2012 Note m m UK corporation tax Current income tax charge 1 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1 1 1 Overseas tax Current income tax charge 31 36 Adjustments in respect of prior years 5 26 36 Total current income tax continuing operations 25 37 Deferred income tax Current deferred income tax credit 13 24 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1 5 Total deferred income tax continuing operations 14 29 Taxation continuing operations 11 8 Taxation discontinued operations 10 21 25 Total income tax credit charge 10 33 Pension costs gave rise to an exceptional tax credit from continuing operations of 1 million in the current year 2012: 8 million exceptional tax credit resulting from restructuring costs and intangible asset impairment.
Total income tax credit charge is analysed as follows: Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 m m m m m m Analysed as: Taxation UK 1 1 134 Taxation overseas 12 22 10 72229 11 21 10 82533 98 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements ii Analysis of income tax in other comprehensive income Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income and recognised within the consolidated statement of comprehensive income is as follows: 2013 2012 m m Current income tax related to components of other comprehensive income Current income tax credit on fide ned bene t schemes 4 14 4 14 Deferred income tax related to components of other comprehensive income Deferred income tax charge credit on fide ned bene t schemes 6 7 6 7 Total income tax charge credit related to components of other comprehensive income 2 21 iii Total tax reconciliation The total tax credit for the year of 10 million 2012: 33 million charge is lower than the standard rate of UK corporation tax of 24% 2012:26%.
The key factors are explained below: 2013 2012 m m Pro t before tax: Continuing operations 15 47 Discontinued operations 103 85 118 132 Tax at the UK corporate income tax rate of 24% 2012: 26% 28 34 Current year losses and other temporary differences not recognised 27 7 Tax effect of expenses that are are not deductible 1 3 Tax effect of utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised 3 3 Recognition of carried forward losses in current year 25 7 Expected utilisation of tax losses on gain on sale 48 Differences in effective overseas tax rates 24 9 Adjustments in respect of prior years 12 10 Total income tax credit charge 10 33 iv Factors that may affect future tax charges The Group is subject to several factors which affect the tax charge including the levels and mix of pro tability in different jurisdictions and the availability of tax losses.
v Franked investment income group litigation order In December 2006 Invensys led a claim in the High Court for compensation arising from the payment of advance corporation tax and from satisfying liabilities to corporation tax arising from the receipt of dividends from non UK resident subsidiaries.
Invensys contends that these tax liabilities were incurred in breach of its EU community law rights.
Invensys is part of a Group Litigation Order with 24 other corporates from whom two test cases were selected to proceed to trial on a representative basis.
In December 2006 the European Court of Justice issued its guidance to the UK High Court on the compatibility of certain UK tax provisions within EU community law.
The test cases returned to the UK High Court for the full hearing in July 2008, with the UK High Court issuing its judgement on 27 November 2008.
The UK High Court judgement in November 2008 found in favour of the claimants on certain key aspects of the claim.
The judgement concluded, inter alia, that dividends received from EU subsidiaries should be, and should have been, effectively exempt from UK taxation.
It also concluded that certain dividends received from EU subsidiaries before 5 April 1999 and, in some limited circumstances, after 1993 from outside the EU, should have been treated as franked investment income, with the consequence that advance corporation tax need not have been paid.
The case was heard by the Court of Appeal in October 2009 and the judgement was handed down on 23 February 2010.
The Court ofAppeal has determined that various questions should be referred back to the European Court of Justice for further clari cation.
In addition, the Court determined that the claim should be restricted to six years and not cover claims dating back to 1973.
A hearing took place in February 2012 at the ECJ on the questions referred from the Court of Appeal.
The issue of time limits was heard by the Supreme Court in February 2012 and, in May 2012, the Supreme Court decided in favour of the principal test claimant that claims submitted before 8 September 2003 can go back to 1973.
However, for claims issued on or after 8 September 2003 which is relevant for Invensys, only amajority of Supreme Court judges supported the taxpayers arguments that their right to recover any wrongly paid tax should extend back to 1973.
A further reference to the ECJ has therefore been made.
It is expected that the overall process may take several years tocomplete.
com 99 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 9 Taxation continued The ECJ judgement of 13 November 2012 con rms that the UK treatment of EU dividends was discriminatory and produces the same outcome for third country dividends from 1994 in certain circumstances.
The judgement also con rms that the claim can cover dividends from all indirect as well as direct EU subsidiaries and also ACT paid by a superior holding company.
The case is now likely to revert to the UK High Court to apply the November 2012 ECJ judgement and the date of the trial is awaited.
Given the complexity and uncertainty over the issues raised it is not possible to predict the amounts and final outcome with any reasonable certainty.
Therefore no contingent asset has been recognised in the Group Financial Statements.
10 Discontinued operations On 28 November 2012, the Board announced that it had entered into an agreement with respect to the sale of Invensys Rail to Siemens.
This followed a strategic review by the Board of the Groups businesses which resulted in a decision to implement a strategy aimed at refocusing the Group around its industrial software, systems and control equipment business and, accordingly, to dispose of its Invensys Rail business.
The disposal would also provide funds to address the Groups UK pension position, enable a capital return to shareholders and provide funds for investment in the retained group.
Invensys Rail was classi ed as a disposal group held for sale at 28 November 2012, at which date the group was available for immediate sale subject to completion of the terms of the sale agreement, and the sale was considered to be highly probable.
With effect from that date, no depreciation or amortisation has been charged on the non-current assets of Invensys Rail and those assets have been measured at the lower of their carrying amount and their fair value less costs to sell.
The sale of Invensys Rail was completed subsequent to the year end Note 35, and the group is presented as a discontinued operation and disposal group held for sale Note 22 in the Financial Statements.
Discontinued operations comprise Invensys Rail, and additional costs incurred in respect of disposals in prior years.
Pro t for the year from discontinued operations 2013 2012 m m Revenue 757 775 Operating expenses before exceptional items 632 659 Operating pro t before exceptional items 125 116 Exceptional items: Restructuring costs 13 Impairment: intangible assets other 1 10 Other operating exceptional items 1 Operating pro t 125 93 Finance income 1 Finance costs 5 2 Other finance credit IAS 19 1 1 Loss on assets divested 18 8 Pro t before taxation discontinued operations 103 85 Current income tax: Current income tax related to pre-tax pro t 15 21 Current income tax: adjustments in respect of prior years 5 5 Deferred income tax charge 17 9 Deferred income tax credit - expected utilisation of tax losses on gain on sale 48 Pro t after taxation discontinued operations 124 60 100 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements 11 Earnings per share 2013 2012 Earnings per share pence Continuing operations Basic 0.1p 4.7p Diluted 0.1p 4.7p Before exceptional Group reorganisation costs: exceptional pension settlement gain loss: exceptional pension past service cost: and exceptional finance costs Basic 8.5p 5.3p Diluted 8.4p 5.3p Discontinued operations Basic 15.3p 7.4p Diluted 15.2p 7.3p Total Group Basic 15.4p 12.1p Diluted 15.3p 12.0p Weighted average number of shares million Basic 814 812 Effect of dilution share options 5 2 Diluted 819 814 Earnings m Continuing operations Basic 1 38 Before exceptional Group reorganisation costs: exceptional pension settlement gain loss: exceptional pension past service cost: andexceptional finance costs Exceptional pension settlement gain loss 10 3 Exceptional pension past service cost 3 Exceptional Group reorganisation costs 75 Exceptional finance costs 2 Underlying 69 43 Discontinued operations Basic 124 60 Total Group Basic 125 98 The basic earnings per share for the year has been calculated using 814 million shares 2012: 812 million, being the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding those held as treasury shares which are treated as cancelled, and the pro t after taxation and non-controlling interests for continuing operations, discontinued operations and total Group as shown above.
An additional earnings per share calculation for continuing operations has been included since the directors consider that this gives useful additional indications of underlying performance.
The diluted earnings per share has been calculated in accordance with IAS 33, Earnings per Share without reference to adjustments in respect of certain share options which are considered to be anti-dilutive.
com 101 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 12 Intangible assets goodwill m Cost At 1 April 2011 446 Exchange adjustments 3 At 31 March 2012 443 Additions 15 Exchange adjustments 10 Classi ed as held for sale 16 At 31 March 2013 452 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 April 2011 155 Exchange adjustments 1 At 31 March 2012 154 Exchange adjustments 1 At 31 March 2013 155 Net book value At 31 March 2012 289 At 31 March 2013 297 An analysis of the carrying amount of goodwill by operating segment is set out below: 2013 2012 m m IMServ 33 33 Remaining Invensys Operations Management 263 240 Invensys Operations Management 296 273 Invensys Controls 1 1 Continuing operations 297 274 Invensys Rail 16 15 Discontinued operations 16 15 313 289 Goodwill acquired in business combinations has been allocated to four cash generating units CGUs.
IMServ is a part of Invensys Operations Management, but management continues to monitor IMServs goodwill separately.
These four CGUs represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Annual impairment test The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
Goodwill is tested separately for each CGU or group of CGUs that represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is allocated and monitored for internal management purposes.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations using cash ow projections over a five-year period.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are: revenue volumes: revenue prices: operating costs: growth rate assumptions for years four and five of the cash ow projections: growth in perpetuity applied to calculate the terminal value: and discount rate.
Expected revenue volumes, revenue prices and operating costs are those included in the most recent financial annual operating plans and three-year strategic plans approved by the Board.
Annual operating plans are detailed financial forecasts covering the first year of the Groups three-year strategic plan.
The key assumptions underlying the forecasts for the CGUs over the period of the annual operating and strategic plans are order growth, taking account of the level of historic growth and expected future developments in markets and operations, and macroeconomic forecasts for the territories and industries in which they operate.
102 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements Cash ows for years four and five are projected at a growth rate appropriate for the relevant CGUs.
These growth rates take into consideration forecast GDP growth rates for the countries of operation, expected market growth rates for those regions and the levels of growth achieved historically by the CGUs and forecast in the periods covered by the three-year strategic plan.
Lower growth rates are applied in perpetuity to calculate the terminal values of the CGUs.
These rates do not exceed the average long-term growth rate for the relevant markets.
A long-term discount rate is derived for the CGUs by adjusting the Groups weighted average cost of capital to re ect the relative level of risk associated with the cash ow projections.
The discount rate is a pre-tax rate.
These discount rates and growth rates are as follows: Discount Growth Discount Growth 1 1 rate rate rate rate 2013 2013 2012 2012 % % % % Invensys Operations Management IMServ 10.7 2.3 11.1 2.4 Remaining Invensys Operations Management 11.8 3.1 12.2 3.3 Invensys Controls 11.9 2.8 12.3 3.0 1 In perpetuity.
In all cases the recoverable amounts of these CGUs were in excess of their carrying values and no impairment arose in the year 2012:nil.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions With respect to the assessment of value in use of all CGUs, except IMServ, management believes that no reasonable change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of those CGUs to exceed its recoverable amount.
With respect to IMServ the details are tabulated below: Amount by which the CGUs recoverable amount exceeds its carrying amount m 2.3 Key assumption Terminal growth rate Discount rate Value of key assumption 2.3% 10.7% Amount by which the value assigned to the key assumption must change in order for the CGUs recoverable amount to be equal to its carrying amount % points 0.6% 0.6% The assumptions for the terminal growth rate would change if the long term GDP for market growth differs from the actual growth.
The discount rate would change if there is a change to the Groups weighted cost of capital caused by a change in market rates or the risk pro le of the Group.
com 103 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 13 Intangible assets other Computer Development software 1 costs costs Other Total Note m m m m Cost At 1 April 2011 266 44 1 311 Additions 44 7 51 Disposals 1 3 1 5 Exchange adjustments 4 3 1 At 31 March 2012 305 51 1 357 Additions 33 4 37 Acquisition of subsidiaries 31 23 3 26 Disposals 2 2 Exchange adjustments 3 2 5 Classi ed as held for sale 230 11 241 At 31 March 2013 134 44 4 182 Accumulated amortisation At 1 April 2011 116 34 1 151 Charge for the year 26 5 31 2 Impairment losses for the year 10 10 Disposals 1 3 4 Exchange adjustments 1 2 1 At 31 March 2012 150 38 1 189 Charge for the year 28 3 31 2 Impairment losses for the year 9 1 10 Disposals 2 2 Exchange adjustments 1 2 3 Classi ed as held for sale 122 5 127 At 31 March 2013 66 37 1 104 Net book value At 31 March 2012 155 13 168 At 31 March 2013 68 7 3 78 1 Other includes customer relationships, customer contracts, patents, trademarks and licences.
2 Of impairment losses of 10 million in 2013 2012: 10 million 9 million relates to the write-off of development projects as part of the Group reorganisation relating to assets held by Invensys Operations Management 2012: nil and 1 million relates to the write-off of computer software costs in Invensys Rail prior to classi cation as held for sale 2012: 10 million of development costs in Invensys Rail.
104 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements 14 Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant and buildings equipment Total Note m m m Cost At 1 April 2011 198 630 828 Additions 14 24 38 Disposals 3 61 64 Exchange adjustments 3 16 19 At 31 March 2012 206 577 783 Additions 3 30 33 Acquisition of subsidiaries 31 3 3 Disposals 3 19 22 Exchange adjustments 4 12 16 Classi ed as held for sale 25 57 82 At 31 March 2013 188 543 731 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At 1 April 2011 91 500 591 Charge for the year 8 29 37 Provision for impairment 2 3 5 Disposals 3 60 63 Exchange adjustments 1 13 14 At 31 March 2012 97 459 556 Charge for the year 5 29 34 Provision for impairment 1 2 3 Disposals 2 18 20 Exchange adjustments 3 10 13 Classi ed as held for sale 8 41 49 At 31 March 2013 96 441 537 Net book value At 31 March 2012 109 118 227 At 31 March 2013 92 102 194 No amounts were included within property, plant and equipment in respect of assets held under finance leases in either year.
There was nil million 2012: 1 million depreciation charged in the year in respect of assets held under finance leases.
Included in plant and equipment at 31 March 2013 was an amount of 9 million 2012: 12 million relating to expenditure for plant and equipment in the course of construction.
Impairment losses of 3 million in the year ended 31 March 2013 relate to the write-down of buildings and equipment as part of the Group reorganisation, 2 million in relation to Invensys Operations Management and 1 million in relation to Invensys Controls 2012: 5 million related to the write-down of buildings and equipment associated with restructuring projects undertaken in Invensys Controls and 2million for the write-down of land and buildings in Corporate.
The recoverable amounts of these assets were estimated based ontheirfair value less costs to sell.
Fair values were determined based on an assessment of the current market values ofthe assets andpast experience of sales of similar assets.
com 105 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 15 Trade and other receivables 2013 2012 Note m m Non-current Other receivables 10 26 10 26 Current Trade receivables 291 398 Prepayments and accrued income 28 32 Other receivables 70 70 389 500 Total trade and other receivables 399 526 Classi cation to financial assets Financial assets: loans and receivables 19 i 341 463 Nonfinancial assets 58 63 399 526 Trade receivables are recorded net of an allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods.
The average credit period taken on sale of goods is 49 days.
The allowance that has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods is 9 million 2012: 11 million.
This allowance has been determined by reference to past default experience and future recoverability.
The net reversal in the year of previously recognised impairment losses as a result of irrecoverable receivables balances is 1 million 2012: nil.
Trade and other receivables are predominantly non-interest bearing.
Other receivables include amounts owed by associated undertakings, interest receivable, refundable deposits, refunds due in respect of VAT, sales and payroll taxes, commissions earned andinsurance recoveries.
Movements in the provision for impairment of receivables were as follows: 2013 2012 m m At 1 April 11 12 Charged in year 3 2 Released in year 4 2 Utilised in year 1 1 At 31 March 9 11 As at 31 March, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows: 2013 2012 m m Neither past due nor impaired 230 317 Past due but not impaired past due by: 1 to 30 days 33 34 31 to 60 days 11 19 61 to 90 days 7 5 91 to 120 days 3 3 121 days and over 7 20 291 398 Generally the Group does not hold any collateral as security against trade receivables that are impaired or past due but not impaired.
TheGroup performs credit veri cation procedures on all customers.
Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis.
Further information on the Groups approach to credit risk in relation to trade and other receivables is given in Note 19.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of current and non-current trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
106 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements 16 Amounts due from to contract customers 2013 2012 m m Amounts due from contract customers: Amounts expected to be recovered within 12 months 172 273 Amounts expected to be recovered after more than 12 months 5 11 177 284 Amounts due to contract customers: Amounts expected to be settled within 12 months 140 205 Amounts expected to be settled after more than 12 months 16 23 156 228 Net amounts due from contract customers 21 56 Analysed as: Contract costs incurred plus recognised pro ts less recognised losses to date 835 3,111 Less: progress billings 814 3,055 Contracts in progress at balance sheet date 21 56 Revenue from construction contracts 747 1,233 At 31 March 2013, retentions held by customers for contract work amounted to 20 million 2012: 37 million and advances received from customers for contract work amounted to nil million 2012: 8 million.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of amounts due from to contract customers is a reasonable approximation of their fairvalue.
17 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities The following are the major deferred income tax assets liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior year: Pension and other retirement PPE Tax bene t intangibles losses obligations Other Total m m m m m At 1 April 2011 37 51 12 2 28 Credit to income statement 3 10 3 4 20 Credit to other comprehensive income 7 7 Exchange differences 1 1 At 31 March 2012 33 61 22 5 55 Charge credit to income statement 5 45 5 45 Charge to other comprehensive income 6 6 Classi ed as held for sale 24 5 1 6 12 Exchange differences 1 3 1 3 At 31 March 2013 15 104 16 4 109 Certain deferred income tax assets and liabilities have been offset where a legal right of offset exists.
The following is the analysis of the deferred income tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 2013 2012 m m Deferred income tax assets 109 70 Deferred income tax liabilities 15 109 55 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.
com 107 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 17 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities continued As a result of changes to tax legislation, dividends received from subsidiaries on or after 1 July 2009 are largely exempt from UK tax but may be subject to dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate.
The gross temporary differences of those overseas subsidiaries affected by such potential taxes is 50 million 2012: 34 million.
No deferred income tax liability is recognised on these temporary differences as the Group is able to control the timing of reversal and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable pro t will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
As at 31 March 2013, the Group had income tax losses, capital losses, pension and other retirement bene t obligations and other deductible temporary differences carried forward in respect of which no deferred income tax assets were recognised amounting to 8,120 million 2012: 8,196 million.
The Groups pension, other retirement obligations and other deductible temporary differences haveno expiry date restrictions.
The expiry date of income tax losses and capital losses carried forward is dependent upon the tax law ofthe various territories in which the losses arose.
A summary of expiry dates for losses in respect of which these restrictions apply is setout below: Losses expiring within Gross losses Tax value four years m m m Income tax losses Americas 255 89 Europe 901 227 3 Asia Paci c 49 17 27 1,205 333 30 1 Capital losses 6,213 1,500 12 Pension, other retirement obligations and other deductible temporary differences 702 209 8,120 2,042 42 1 Of the total capital losses in the Group, 6 billion are carried forward in the UK.
The standard rate of UK corporation tax has reduced to 23% from 1 April 2013.
Deferred tax not recognised has therefore been calculated using the standard rate of corporation tax of 23% 2012: 24%.
Further reductions to the standard rate are proposed to reduce the rate to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015.
As this legislation was not substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, it has not been re ected in these Financial Statements.
The impact of the rate change to 20% would reduce the total unrecognised deferred income tax assets by 195 million.
18 Inventories 2013 2012 m m Raw materials and consumables 64 85 Work in progress 20 27 Finished goods 27 33 111 145 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 2013 2012 m m Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 681 939 Including: Write down of inventories to net realisable value 2 1 Reversals of impairments in inventories 1 108 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements 19 Financial risk management and financial instruments The Groups principal financial instruments comprise bank facilities for cash advances, guarantees, leases, cash and cash equivalents, other financial assets, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables.
The Group also enters into derivative transactions, primarily forward currency contracts.
This note explains the nature and extent of the risks arising from financial instruments: how those risks arise: the objectives, policies and processes used by the Group for managing the risks: and the methods used to measure the risks.
Overview of treasury policy The Group manages its exposure to risks arising from its use of financial instruments by the application of its treasury policy.
The Groups treasury policy is approved by the Board and seeks to ensure that: appropriate financial resources are available for the maintenance and development of the Groups divisions: the financial risk of currency, interest rate and counterparty credit exposure is understood, measured and managed appropriately: and the Treasury department operates as a cost centre and that no speculative transactions are undertaken.
There have been no signi cant changes in the Groups exposures to risk, and its approach to managing those exposures, in the year ended 31 March 2013.
This is not expected to change as a result of the disposal of Invensys Rail.
The Groups policy in respect of the major areas of treasury management is set out below.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter dif culty in meeting its financial obligations as they fall due.
Operating within the strict controls of the Groups treasury policy, the Treasury department manages this risk, ensuring that suf cient funding and liquidity is available to meet the expected needs of the Group together with a prudent level of headroom to allow for cash ow and bank guarantee variability.
In addition to the free cash ow of the Group, Invensys adopts a exible approach to liquidity management using a mixture of long-term debt facilities and short-term cash deposits.
Funding is provided by a 250 million bank facility which matures in March 2017, as described in Note 21 ii.
The undrawn level of this facility together with the Groups cash balances, as set outi n Note 20, are the key measures of the Groups liquidity.
Bank guarantees issued by the Group as set out in Note 21 ii represent a potential liquidity requirement.
This risk is mitigated by issuing guarantees under the committed syndicated loan facility and holding suf cient liquidity to cover the forecast cash requirements of guarantees issued under uncommitted facilities.
Liquidity management is centralised through cash pooling arrangements and inter-company funding structures, under the control of the Treasury department.
In countries where cash pooling arrangements are not in place, cash balances are monitored to ensure that surplus amounts are repatriated and fide cits adequately funded.
The Treasury department maintains suf cient back-up liquidity in the form of available cash balances and committed facilities.
Standard business practices include the strict application of credit control procedures to ensure the collection of cash from customers in accordance with agreed credit periods and terms that result in positive cash ows over the life of a construction or long-term service provision contract whenever possible.
The following table summarises the maturity pro le of the continuing Groups financial liabilities at 31 March 2013 and total Group at 31March 2012 based on contractual undiscounted payments: Up to 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 3 years 3 to 4 years 4 to 5 years 5 years Total 31 March 2013 m m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities: Short-term bank and other loans 1 1 Provisions 8711 12 20 Trade and other payables 375 2 6 2 385 Unrecognised liabilities: Operating lease commitments 43 27 20 15 11 46 162 427 36 27 16 12 50 568 Derivative financial liabilities: Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 5 5 Total financial liabilities 432 36 27 16 12 50 573 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.
com 109 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 19 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued Up to 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 3 years 3 to 4 years 4 to 5 years 5 years Total 31 March 2012 m m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities: Finance leases 1 1 Provisions 6 4 2 2 1 3 18 Trade and other payables 495 8 3 506 Unrecognised liabilities: Operating lease commitments 49 36 25 19 16 73 218 551 48 27 21 17 79 743 Derivative financial liabilities: Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 3 3 Total financial liabilities 554 48 27 21 17 79 746 Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to risk arising from the effect of changes in oating interest rates on the level of interest it receives on its cash deposits, and pays interest on its facility drawings.
As at 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2012, the Group had no signi cant borrowings.
The interest rate pro les of the Groups cash and cash equivalents and short and long-term borrowings are set out in Notes 20 and 21 respectively.
All other financial assets and liabilities of the Group are non-interest bearing and a statement has been made to that effect in the relevant balance sheet notes.
Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on the three main trading currencies of the Group, with all other variables held constant, on the Groups pro t before tax through the impact on oating-rate cash and borrowings.
There is no impact on the Groups equity.
The same assumptions have been used for the years ended 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2012.
Effect on pro t Effect on pro t before tax: before tax: increase increase decrease decrease Increase 2013 2012 decrease m m Sterling 1% 0.4 0.5 Euro 1% 0.3 0.5 US dollar 1% 0.4 0.3 Sterling 1% 0.4 0.5 Euro 1% 0.3 0.5 US dollar 1% 0.4 0.3 Currency risk Transaction exposure Currency transaction exposure arises when business units face revenue o r costs in a currency other than their own.
The incidence of this risk varies across the Group and is subject to change.
However, the majority of revenue and costs will usually be in the functional currency of the business unit undertaking the transaction.
Where this is not the case and the exposure is signi cant, it is the Groups policy for business units to hedge their exposures.
The Group predominantly uses forward currency contracts to manage transaction exposure.
The Group is also subject to exchange risk when making bids, particularly on major contracts, where movements against the speci c exchange rate assumed within a bid would lead to a change in the anticipated margin on the contract should the bid be successful.
If it is likely that the bid will be successful, and the resulting foreign currency exposure would be signi cant, then the currency risk will beh edged.
Translation exposure The majority of the Groups operating capital is employed in overseas locations and is denominated in foreign currencies, particularly US dollars.
As a consequence, changes in exchange rates affect both net asset values and reported results.
110 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements The Groups exposure to foreign currency risk is as follows: Other Other US dollar Euro excl Sterling US dollar Euro excl Sterling 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 As at 31 March m m m m m m Net assets of non-Sterling functional currency entities 360 121 214 261 134 212 Net unhedged monetary assets not held in entities functional currencies 138 26 15 44 21 22 Gross exposure 498 147 229 305 155 234 The signi cant exchange rates that applied during the year are set out in Note 36.
Currency risk sensitivity analysis The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar and Euro exchange rate, with all other variables held constant, of: the Groups pro t before tax due to changes in the sterling value of financial instruments not in hedging relationships assuming year end levels of such items are held constant : and the Groups equity due to changes in the sterling value of financial instruments in hedging relationships.
Effect on pro t Effect on Effect on pro t Effect on before tax: equity: before tax: equity: Strengthening increase increase increase increase weakening decrease decrease decrease decrease US dollar and 2013 2013 2012 2012 euro rate m m m m Euro 5% 16 1 7 US dollar 5% 719 2 14 Euro 5% 1 6 1 6 US dollar 5% 7 17 2 12 Credit risk The Group is exposed to risk if a counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
Such a risk arises principally in relation to receivables due from customers and cash deposited with banks or other financial institutions.
The Group monitors the identity of the counterparties with whom it deposits cash and transacts other financial instruments so as to control exposure to any territory or institution.
As far as it is both feasible and practical to do so, cash is held centrally by the Treasury department.
Risk is assessed using ratings from major credit rating agencies.
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by their respective carrying values as at the balance sheet date see Note 19 i on page 112. Credit risks arising from acting as guarantor are disclosed in Note 29.
It should be noted that the Group has exposure of approximately 80 million with one major customer spread over several contracts.
Details of collateral held as security and other credit enhancements in respect of receivables are given in Note 15.
Based on past experience, the directors believe that there is no signi cant credit risk associated with receivables that are neither past due nor impaired.
The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties, and performs credit veri cation procedures on all major customers.
Receivable balances, including uninvoiced receivables reported as amounts due from contract customers, are monitored on an ongoing basis.
The Group has not renegotiated the terms of any signi cant financial assets such that those assets would have been past due or impaired had the terms not been renegotiated.
Capital management Capital is managed under the Groups treasury policy.
The policy sets out a strategy for the long-term funding of the Group, with the objective of ensuring the Group has access to appropriate sources of funding to support its businesses, as and when required.
Key aspects of the policy are: the Groups debt capacity is determined as part of the annual strategic review process: appropriate contingency levels are maintained to cover unforeseen events: nancing is obtained from multiple sources, for example capital markets, bank debt and cash resources: funds are raised from various geographical locations: the Group aims to maintain a consistent credit rating: the Group aims to maintain strong relationships with its banks and rating agencies: and interest cover and other financial ratios principally the ratio of EBITDA to total borrowings and net finance costs are maintained at appropriate levels, and compliance with covenant arrangements is tested semi-annually.
Funding is arranged centrally and managed by the Treasury department.
The Treasury department can make use of a number of approved funding instruments, including bilateral bank facilities, syndicated bank facilities, public bonds or loan notes, private placements and commercial paper programmes.
New long-term funding requires approval under the Groups Board Delegated Authority Levels, with facilities in excess of 100 million requiring Board approval.
com 111 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 19 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued The main credit facility in place at 31 March 2013 provides liquidity for the Group until March 2017 and supports the current strategy of the Group.
This facility, including the related covenant arrangements, is described further in Note 21 ii.
Investigations are regularly undertaken to review nancing requirements and the availability of funding to meet these.
In considering these, the Board takes into account the cost of any nancing compared to the bene ts, which include terms and conditions, the cost of funding and repayment schedules.
There were no signi cant changes in the Groups approach to capital management during the years ended 31 March 2013 and 31March2012.
The Groups capital structure is as follows: 2013 2012 As at 31 March Notes m m Capital employed 337 314 Cash and cash equivalents 20 247 263 Cash and cash equivalents classi ed as assets held for sale 22 22 Borrowings 21 1 1 Net cash 268 262 Total capital equals total equity 605 576 Comprising: Equity holders of parent 585 556 Non-controlling interests 20 20 605 576 Net cash was 268 million 2012: 262 million, with no amounts held on deposit with a maturity of more than three months 2012: nil.
i Classi cation and fair values of financial assets and liabilities The following table sets out the classi cation, carrying amounts and fair values of the Groups financial assets and liabilities.
The fair value is fide ned as the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction between informed and willing parties.
Where market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting cash ows at prevailing interest rates translated at year end exchange rates.
Provisions have been included where there is a contractual obligation to settle in cash.
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities at 31 March was: Book value Fair value Book value Fair value 2013 2013 2012 2012 Notes m m m m Financial assets Loans and receivables: trade and other receivables 15 341 341 463 463 Cash and cash equivalents 20 247 247 263 263 Derivative financial instruments: Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 19 ii 1 1 3 3 589 589 729 729 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at amortised cost: Borrowings 21 1 1 Finance leases 29 1 1 Provisions 24 20 20 16 16 Trade and other payables 23 385 385 506 506 Derivative financial instruments: Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 19 ii 5 5 3 3 411 411 526 526 The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values: loans and receivables: trade and other receivables: cash and cash equivalents: provisions and trade and other payables: the directors consider that the carrying amount of these financial assets and liabilities approximates to their fair value : short and long-term bank and other loans: finance leases: fair values are evaluated based on interest rates : and derivative financial instruments: foreign exchange swaps and forwards: fair values are derived using forward pricing and swap models.
The models incorporate various inputs including the credit quality of counterparties and foreign exchange spot and forward rates.
The Group has, in the ordinary course of business, provided indemnities to banks in respect of performance guarantees issued to customers.
The fair value of such indemnities is not material, as the likelihood of any liability arising from them is considered remote.
At 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2012, the Group had no arrangements in place to guarantee borrowings by third parties.
112 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements Fair value hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a signi cant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly orindirectly Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a signi cant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable marketdata Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total As at 31 March 2013: m m m m Financial assets at fair value Derivative financial instruments: Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 1 1 1 1 Financial liabilities at fair value Derivative financial instruments: Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 5 5 5 5 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total As at 31 March 2012: m m m m Financial assets at fair value Derivative financial instruments: Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 3 3 3 3 Financial liabilities at fair value Derivative financial instruments: Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 3 3 3 3 During the years ended 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2012, there were no transfers between Level 1 and 2 fair value measurements, and no financial instruments requiring Level 3 fair value measurements were held.
ii Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivatives to hedge currency transaction exposure, currency translation exposure and contract pricing exposure.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments from continuing operations foreign exchange swaps and forwards is as follows: Fair value Fair value 2013 2012 m m Derivative assets 1 3 Derivative liabilities 5 3 4 The notional principals and fair values of derivatives from discontinued operations are not signi cant to the Group.
Foreign exchange swaps and forwards used to hedge transaction exposure The Group uses foreign exchange swaps and forwards to hedge currency exposure arising from sales and purchases made by the Groups business units in currencies other than their own functional currency.
The notional principal of such derivatives from continuing operations which typically have a term of less than one year, in the year ended 31 March 2013 was 115 million 2012: 256 million.
These instruments are designated and effective as cash ow hedges.
1 million relating to hedged cash ows that have not yet impacted the income statement have been deferred and recognised in equity at 31 March 2013 2012: nil.
nil 2012: nil has been transferred to the income statement in respect of hedge relationships where the underlying sales or purchases have been recognised during the year ended 31 March 2013.
As a result of the sale of Invensys Rail, the underlying forecast transactions which were previously hedged are no longer expected to occur.
Therefore 8 million has been transferred to the income statement during the year ended 31 March 2013 in respect of discontinued cash ow hedges 2012: nil.
This amount is included within pro t from discontinued operations.
Ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement from continuing operations No amounts were recognised in the income statement relating to the ineffectiveness of cash ow hedges 2012: nil.
com 113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 19 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued Foreign exchange swaps and forwards used to hedge translation exposure The Group uses foreign exchange swaps and forwards to match the currency pro le of its net debt to that of its net assets, revenue and earnings, and ensures that it has suf cient cash available to meet its payment obligations by currency as they fall due.
The fair value of such derivatives which typically have a term of less than one year is 3 million 2012: nil.
Changes in the fair value of these derivatives resulted in a loss of 3 million in the year ended 31 March 2013 2012: nil.
These are taken directly to the income statement.
The currency assets and liability positions resulting from entering into these derivatives at 31 March were: Net assets Net assets Assets Liabilities liabilities Assets Liabilities liabilities 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 m m m m m m Sterling 42 115 73 3 84 81 Euro 21 21 23 23 US dollar 26 26 35 35 Japanese yen 15 15 12 12 Other 52 44 8 12 3 9 156 159 3 85 87 2 20 Cash and cash equivalents 2013 2012 m m Cash at banks and in hand 148 154 Short-term deposits 99 109 Cash and cash equivalents 247 263 Cash and cash equivalents attract interest based on relevant national LIBID equivalents.
Short-term deposits have an average maturity of 6 days 2012: 15 days.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is not materially different from their book value.
For information on the exposure of the Groups cash and cash equivalents balances to credit risk refer to Note 19.
Restricted cash and short-term deposits The Group has operations in a number of territories including China, Brazil and India which place restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to lend money to other Group entities outside those territories.
However, distributions to the Group are permitted from realised reserves.
At 31 March 2013, restricted cash and cash equivalents held in such territories totalled 51 million 2012: 58 million.
Cash and cash equivalents include 10 million 2012: 12 million of collateral held in the ordinary course of business to provide security for local bonding facilities.
22 million cash and cash equivalents is classi ed as held for sale in respect of discontinued operations of which 12 million is held as collateral 2012: 17 million.
21 Borrowings i Bank and other loans falling due within and after more than one year 2013 2012 m m On demand or within one year 1 1 Borrowings of 1 million 2012: 1 million are secured by charges over the assets to which they relate.
At 31 March 2013, nil of such loans were classi ed as non-current liabilities 2012: nil.
Details of the Groups other borrowings arrangements are set out below.
ii Loan repayment dates, interest rates and principal terms Committed bank, other loans and borrowings Facility Borrowings Borrowings 2013 Interest 2013 2012 Notes Maturity m rate m m LIBOR Revolving credit facility 1,2, 3,4 March 2017 250 1.25% 1 Interest is currently charged at LIBOR plus 1.25% based on balance sheet leverage.
2 Utilisation fees are charged based on proportion of revolving credit facility drawn as loans.
3 This facility contains covenants whereby if total borrowings to EBITDA are greater than 2.5:1 then restrictions on acquisitions and dividends apply current borrowings to EBITDA is 0.005:1.
4 Interest is currently charged on the undrawn portion at a rate of 0.5% based on balance sheet leverage.
114 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements Committed bond and guarantee facilities Facility Drawings Drawings 2013 2013 2012 Notes Maturity m Fees m m Committed multi-currency bonding and guarantee facility 1,2, 3 March 2017 350 1.25% 205 253 1 This facility contains covenants whereby if total borrowings to EBITDA are greater than 2.5:1 then restrictions on acquisitions and dividends apply current borrowings to EBITDA is 0.005:1.
2 Interest is currently charged on the undrawn portion at a rate of 0.5% based on balance sheet leverage.
3 Fees are currently charged at 1.25% based on balance sheet leverage.
Of the total Group drawings, 55 million relates to discontinued operations 2012: 48 million.
Uncommitted bond and guarantee facilities In addition, at 31 March 2013, bonds and guarantees totalling 47 million were held in continuing operations 2012: 59 million issuedunder uncommitted facilities.
Of these, 10 million 2012: 12 million are supported by cash collateral and a further 6 million 2012:7million are supported by guarantees issued under the Groups committed multi-currency bonding and guarantee facility.
In relation to discontinued operations at 31 March 2013, 266 million 2012: 168 million was issued under uncommitted facilities.
Of these 12 million 2012: 17 million are supported by cash collateral and a further nil 2012: 7 million are supported by guarantees issued under the Groups committed multi-currency bonding and guarantee facility.
22 Assets held for sale Assets and liabilities held for sale at 31 March 2013 consisted of the assets and liabilities of Invensys Rail and the Groups surplus freehold properties 2012: surplus freehold properties.
Invensys Rail has been classi ed as a discontinued operation and disposal group held for sale, as set out in Note 10.
Surplus freehold properties are properties that are vacant, no longer used for operational purposes and are being actively marketed for sale.
They are expected to be sold within a year of the date of their classi cation as held for sale and are included in Corporate in the operating segment analysis in Note 4.
The major classes of assets classi ed as held for sale as at 31 March are: 2013 2012 m m Non-current assets Intangible assets goodwill 16 Intangible assets other 125 Property, plant and equipment 27 Trade and other receivables 15 Deferred income tax assets 3 Current assets Inventories 34 Trade and other receivables 114 Amounts due from contract customers 229 Cash and cash equivalents 22 Surplus property portfolio 14 10 Assets classi ed as held for sale 599 10 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 247 Amounts due to contract customers 71 Provisions 2 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 2 Provisions 1 Deferred income tax liabilities 15 Pension liability 50 Liabilities classi ed as held for sale 388 Net assets classi ed as held for sale 211 10 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.
com 115 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 23 Trade and other payables 2013 2012 Note m m Non-current Other payables 12 10 12 10 Current Trade payables 144 274 Accruals and deferred income 174 166 Interest payable 2 2 Other payables 71 91 391 533 Total trade and other payables 403 543 Classi cation to financial liabilities Financial liabilities at amortised cost 19 i 385 506 Nonfinancial liabilities 18 37 403 543 Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities are as follows: Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are on average normally settled on 50-day terms.
Interest payable on the Groups borrowing facility is settled quarterly.
Other payables include sales taxes, social security and payroll taxes, payroll creditors, customer advances notrelated to construction contracts, payments received from customers in advance of work performed on construction contracts and commissions payable.
The majority of non-current other payables will mature in more than one year but inless than two years: there is a small proportion that will mature in over five years.
The maturity pro le of trade and other payables classi ed as financial liabilities is given in Note 19.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of both current and non-current trade and other payables approximates to their fairvalue.
116 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements 24 Provisions Onerous Warranties Restructuring Environmental contracts Other Total m m m m m m At 1 April 2012 13 17 45 16 48 139 Charged in year 7 48 28 11 19 113 Released in year 2 2 3 3 9 19 Utilised in year 6 20 5 4 11 46 Unwind of discount of provisions 1 1 Exchange adjustments 1 2 3 Classi ed as held for sale 2 2 1 5 At 31 March 2013 11 41 68 20 46 186 2013 2012 Note m m Analysed as: Current liabilities 88 65 Non-current liabilities 98 74 186 139 Classi cation to financial liabilities Financial liabilities at amortised cost 19 i 20 16 Nonfinancial liabilities 166 123 186 139 Warranties are provided for in the normal course of business based on an assessment of future claims with reference to past claims.
Such costs are generally incurred over the product life cycle.
The actual amount of costs that will be incurred will depend upon the level and nature of future claims.
Restructuring provisions cover committed costs, the majority of which are expected to be incurred within one year of the balance sheetdate.
Provisions for environmental remediation are made when a clean-up is probable and the amount can be determined reliably.
This generally coincides with a commitment to a formal plan or, if earlier, on divestment or closure of inactive sites.
These costs are expected to be incurred over the next 30 years.
Provisions for onerous contracts relate to lease rentals in respect of vacant property and the costs of other onerous contracts.
An onerous contract is a contract in which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic bene ts expected to be received under it.
The provisions represent the best estimate of the unavoidable costs remaining under the current contractual terms of the contracts.
These liabilities are expected to crystallise largely within the next 15 years.
Other provisions principally relate to legal claims, claims under workers compensation or similar employee disability bene t schemes and other miscellaneous obligations.
These liabilities are expected to crystallise largely within the next 10 years.
The costs are estimated based on the expected outcome of the legal claim or obligation.
The amount of the final liability and timing of payment, if any, is dependent upon the final outcome of any litigation or other negotiation involved.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of provisions equates to their fair value.
com 117 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25 Pensions and post-retirement bene ts i fide ned contribution schemes The Group operates 31 fide ned contribution schemes.
Pension costs in respect of fide ned contribution schemes represented contributions payable in the year and amounted to 19 million 2012: 19 million.
At 31 March 2013, there were nil 2012: nil of outstanding contributions included in payables.
ii fide ned bene t schemes general The Group operates 50 funded and unfunded fide ned bene t pension and post-retirement schemes.
Contributions to the fide ned bene t schemes are made in accordance with the recommendations of the independent actuary of the relevant scheme.
There are two main funded fide ned bene t schemes in the UK and US, together with other smaller schemes in the rest of the world.
The Invensys Pension Scheme UK is final salary in nature.
The Invensys Pension Plan US ceased to be a final salary scheme following its closure to future accrual and the freezing of bene ts for existing members with effect from 1 November 2009.
The principal Group scheme covering the majority of UK employees who have fide ned bene ts is the Invensys Pension Scheme UK.
The Invensys Pension Scheme UK is a funded fide ned bene t scheme.
The assets of this scheme are held separately from those of the Group.
These assets are managed by trustees, who are required to act in the best interests of the schemes bene ciaries.
The Trustee Board is made up of nine directors, four nominated by the Company and five by the members.
The Company is responsible for appointing the Chairman from the Board.
The last full actuarial valuation of the scheme for funding purposes was carried out with a valuation date of 31 March 2011 by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method for valuing the liabilities.
A further full actuarial valuation was carried out with a valuation date of 31 October 2012 as part of the requirements for the disposal of Invensys Rail.
This did not impact the current year funding plan.
More detail on future funding is provided in Note 25 x.
The assumptions that had the most effect on the results of the March 2011 valuation for funding purposes are those relating to the discount rate and in ation on scheme liabilities and mortality assumptions.
There are numerous schemes operated by overseas subsidiaries.
Of these, the largest, Invensys Pension Plan US, is assessed annually by an actuary, and the other overseas fide ned bene t schemes are normally assessed periodically by independent actuaries in accordance with local practice.
The Group also operates a number of non-pension post-retirement bene t plans, the majority of which relate to the provision of medical bene ts to retired former employees of the Groups subsidiaries in the US.
These schemes are generally unfunded.
The last full valuations of all schemes on an IAS 19 basis have been updated to 31 March 2013 to re ect market conditions and material events in the plans.
iii fide ned bene t schemes major assumptions The major assumptions made when valuing the liabilities of funded and unfunded schemes under IAS 19 are as follows: As at 31 March 2013 the major financial assumptions are: Unfunded Funded schemes schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension Scheme UK Plan US Other % % % % Major assumptions Rates of increase in salaries 4.75 n a 4.34 3.98 1 Rate of increase to pensions in payment 3.60 n a 2.37 2.59 Discount rate for scheme liabilities 4.20 4.00 4.03 3.54 2 In ation rate 3.50 n a 3.17 2.54 1 The pension increase assumption disclosed for the Invensys Pension Scheme UK is in line with RPI, subject to a oor of 3.0% and a ceiling of 5.0%.
2 The in ation rate for the UK schemes is based on RPI.
An additional in ation rate assumption for CPI is required for the Invensys Pension Scheme UK, one Other Funded scheme and one Other Unfunded scheme to re ect the UK Governments change of the in ation measure used to determine minimum pension increases which impacts on some of the pension increases within these schemes.
This has been assessed as 2.50% for the Invensys Pension Scheme UK, 2.50% for the Other Funded scheme and 2.50% for the Other Unfunded scheme.
As at 31 March 2012 the major financial assumptions were: Unfunded Funded schemes schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension Scheme UK Plan US Other % % % % Major assumptions Rates of increase in salaries 4.75 n a 4.30 3.67 1 Rate of increase to pensions in payment 3.60 n a 2.47 2.58 Discount rate for scheme liabilities 4.70 4.55 4.61 4.28 2 In ation rate 3.50 n a 3.11 2.55 1 The pension increase assumption disclosed for the Invensys Pension Scheme UK is in line with RPI, subject to a oor of 3.0% and a ceiling of 5.0%.
This has been assessed as 2.50% for the Invensys Pension Scheme UK, 2.60% re ecting a longer duration for the Other Funded scheme and 2.50% for the Other Unfunded scheme.
118 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements The demographic assumptions which were applied for the main schemes are as follows: Invensys Pension Scheme UK Standard SAPS actuarial mortality tables S1PA were applied.
Based on scheme experience, the probability of death at each age was multiplied by 103% for males and 113% for females.
Future improvements in life expectancy have been allowed for in line with the standard CMI model projections subject to a longterm trend of 1.00% for males and females.
These mortality tables are consistent with those agreed by the trustees for the 31 March 2011 formal valuation of the scheme.
By way of illustration, the impact of the application of these mortality tables on the expected longevity of pensioners is shown below: Years Retiring today at age 65: Male 22.0 Female 23.4 Retiring in 20 years at age 65: Male 23.4 Female 24.9 Invensys Pension Plan US The mortality table adopted was the RP 2000 Table for combined employee annuitants, projected to 2020 using projection scale AA.
Sensitivities Invensys Pension Scheme UK and Invensys Pension Plan US The two largest schemes within the Group are the Invensys Pension Scheme UK representing 76% of gross liabilities of all fide ned bene t schemes and the Invensys Pension Plan US 17%.
The principal sensitivities, with all other variables held constant, for these twos chemes are illustrated below: Invensys Pension Scheme UK Invensys Pension Plan US fide ned fide ned bene t Net bene t Net 1 1 obligation Assets effect obligation Assets effect m m m m m m Total fide ned bene t obligation scheme assets Note 25 v 4,628 4,478 150 1,033 936 97 A 0.1% increase in the assumed in ation rate would 2 have the following effect : Increase in fide ned bene t obligation increase inscheme assets 57 29 28 1 1 A 0.1% decrease in the assumed discount rate 3 wouldhave the following effect : Increase in fide ned bene t obligation increase inscheme assets 67 49 18 11 8 3 A oneyear increase to the pensioners lives wouldhave the following effect: Increase in fide ned bene t obligation 233 233 40 40 Applying an additional 0.25% underpin to the improvement in mortality would have the followingeffect: Increase in fide ned bene t obligation 64 64 n a n a n a 1 The movement of assets in this table shows the estimated impact on asset values arising from a change of market conditions consistent with the change in discount rate and in ation assumptions shown.
2 This sensitivity assumes that a 0.1% increase in future in ation expectations results in a 0.1% increase in all in ation-related pension increase assumptions.
As a result of the upper and lower limits on the majority of in ation related pension increases, a given change in the in ation assumption may result in a smaller change in pension increase assumptions, and hence smaller change in the liabilities particularly where such a change in in ation is large.
3 This illustrates the sensitivity of assets and liabilities to a 0.1% change in all bond yields.
The discount rate used to determine the liabilities is based on AA corporate bond yields.
com 119 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25 Pensions and post-retirement bene ts continued iv fide ned bene t schemes income and expenses The amounts that have been recognised in the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 March 2013 are set out below: Unfunded Funded schemes schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension Scheme UK Plan US Other Total m m m m m Analysis of amounts charged to the consolidated income statement: Current service cost 6 3 9 Past service cost 3 3 Settlements 10 10 Total charge credit to operating pro t continuing operations 6 10 3 3 2 Current service cost discontinued 4 4 8 Total charge to discontinued operations 4 4 8 Expected return on plan assets 178 51 13 242 Interest on plan liabilities 198 44 13 5 260 Other finance charge credit IAS 19 20 7 5 18 Analysed as: Charge credit to continuing operations 20 7 1 5 19 Credit to discontinued operations 1 1 Total Group 20 7 5 18 Analysis of amounts recognised in the consolidated statement ofcomprehensive income: Actual return less expected return on scheme assets 261 43 5 309 Experience losses gains arising on the scheme liabilities 33 6 4 31 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the planliabilities 304 71 19 11 405 Actuarial loss 76 22 18 11 127 Movement in irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus Note 25 vii 30 30 120 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements The amounts that were recognised in the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 March 2012 are set out below: Unfunded Funded schemes schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension Scheme UK Plan US Other Total m m m m m Analysis of amounts charged to the consolidated income statement: Current service cost continuing operations 4 1 3 8 Settlements 3 3 Total charge to operating pro t continuing operations 4 3 1 3 11 Current service cost discontinued 5 5 10 Total charge to discontinued operations 5 5 10 Expected return on plan assets 215 53 13 281 Interest on plan liabilities 213 52 14 5 284 Other finance credit charge IAS 19 2 1 1 5 3 Analysed as: Credit charge to continuing operations 2 1 2 5 4 Credit to discontinued operations 1 1 Total Group 2 1 1 5 3 Analysis of amounts recognised in the consolidated statement ofcomprehensive income: Actual return less expected return on scheme assets 214 107 1 320 Experience gains losses arising on the scheme liabilities 19 1 6 2 24 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the planliabilities 237 111 16 11 375 Actuarial loss 4 3 11 13 31 Movement in irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus 4 4 The amounts charged credited to operating pro t were charged credited to the following lines in the consolidated income statement: 2013 2012 m m Cost of sales 4 4 Administrative costs 5 4 Other exceptional items 7 3 Total net credit to operating pro t continuing operations 2 11 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.
com 121 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25 Pensions and post-retirement bene ts continued v fide ned bene t schemes changes in present value of fide ned bene t obligations and fair value of plan assets Changes in the present value of the fide ned bene t obligation for the year ended 31 March 2013 were as follows: Unfunded Funded schemes schemes Invensys Pension Invensys Pension 1 Scheme UK Plan US Other Total m m m m m Opening present value of fide ned bene t obligation 4,326 1,070 274 131 5,801 Current service cost 10 4 3 17 Past service cost 3 3 Contributions by employees 1 1 Bene t payments 243 66 12 10 331 Interest on plan liabilities 198 44 13 5 260 Actuarial losses 337 65 23 11 436 Settlements 133 3 136 Exchange adjustments 53 2 1 56 Closing present value of fide ned bene t obligation 4,628 1,033 305 141 6,107 Changes in the fair value of plan assets for the year ended 31 March 2013 were as follows: Funded schemes Invensys Pension Invensys Pension 1 Scheme UK Plan US Other Total m m m m Opening fair value of plan assets 4,233 972 204 5,409 Expected return on plan assets 178 51 13 242 Contributions by employer 49 10 11 70 Contributions by employees 1 1 Bene t payments 243 66 12 321 Actuarial gains 261 43 5 309 Settlements 123 3 126 Exchange adjustments 49 1 50 Closing fair value of plan assets 4,478 936 220 5,634 Actual return on plan assets 439 94 18 551 1 During the year, a settlement was made with a number of deferred plan members of the Invensys Pension Plan US.
A settlement to extinguish liabilities of 133 million has been made, resulting in an exceptional settlement gain of 10 million.
Changes in the present value of the fide ned bene t obligation for the year ended 31 March 2012 were as follows: Unfunded Funded schemes schemes Invensys Pension Invensys Pension Scheme UK Plan US Other Total m m m m m Opening present value of fide ned bene t obligation 4,118 959 262 122 5,461 Current service cost 9 6 3 18 Contributions by employees 1 1 Bene t payments 233 60 15 9 317 Interest on plan liabilities 213 52 14 5 284 Actuarial losses 218 110 10 13 351 Settlements 3 3 Exchange adjustments 6 3 3 Closing present value of fide ned bene t obligation 4,326 1,070 274 131 5,801 Changes in the fair value of plan assets for the year ended 31 March 2012 were as follows: Funded schemes Invensys Pension Invensys Pension Scheme UK Plan US Other Total m m m m Opening fair value of plan assets 3,988 834 202 5,024 Expected return on plan assets 215 53 13 281 Contributions by employer 48 32 8 88 Contributions by employees 1 1 Bene t payments 233 60 15 308 Actuarial gains losses 214 107 1 320 Exchange adjustments 6 3 3 Closing fair value of plan assets 4,233 972 204 5,409 Actual return on plan assets 429 160 12 601 122 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements vi fide ned bene t schemes reconciliation of balance sheet amounts Reconciliation of assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet as at 31 March 2013: Unfunded Funded schemes schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension Scheme UK Plan US Other Total m m m m m Present value of fide ned bene t obligation 4,628 1,033 305 141 6,107 Fair value of plan assets 4,478 936 220 5,634 fide cit in the plan 150 97 85 141 473 Irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus Note25 vii 4 4 Net liability 154 97 85 141 477 The net liability is presented on the balance sheet as follows: Non-current pension liability 154 97 35 141 427 Liabilities held for sale 50 50 Net liability 154 97 85 141 477 Reconciliation of assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet as at 31 March 2012: Unfunded Funded schemes schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension Scheme UK Plan US Other Total m m m m m Present value of fide ned bene t obligation 4,326 1,070 274 131 5,801 Fair value of plan assets 4,233 972 204 5,409 fide cit in the plan 93 98 70 131 392 Irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus Note25 vii 34 34 Net liability 127 98 70 131 426 The net liability is presented on the balance sheet as follows: Non-current pension liability 127 98 70 131 426 Net liability 127 98 70 131 426 vii Impact of IFRIC 14 During the year, the Group was committed to make payments to the Invensys Pension Scheme UK under a fide cit funding contribution schedule agreed with the trustees.
Where the present value of the agreed funding payments exceeded the liability in respect of the scheme as measured under IFRSs, and would therefore, when paid, have given rise to a surplus as measured under IFRSs, a provision was recognised for any part of that surplus that would not be recoverable.
Any surplus on the Invensys Pension Scheme UK ultimately repaid by the trustees would currently be subject to a 35% tax charge prior to being repaid, so a liability for this tax is recognised at the relevant balance sheet date.
At 31 March 2013, the present value of the agreed funding payments exceeded the liability of the scheme under IFRSs, and consequently the irrecoverable element of the pension surplus is 4 million 2012: 34 million.
The future funding requirements of the Invensys Pension Scheme UK are disclosed further in Note 25 x.
2013 2012 As at 31 March m m fide cit in the scheme 150 93 Future minimum funding requirements 161 190 Potential future pension surplus 11 97 Irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus 4 34 Recoverable element of potential future pension surplus 7 63 Movement in irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus 30 4 As required by IAS 19, liabilities for each scheme are determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
This is an accrued bene ts valuation method that discounts the best estimate of future cash ows and makes allowance for projected earnings.
com 123 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25 Pensions and post-retirement bene ts continued If the Invensys Pension Scheme UK were to be wound up, the relevant employers would be responsible, under section 75 of the Pensions Act 1995 to fund the Invensys Pension Scheme UK up to the levels of the cost of buying out the bene ts for all scheme members with an insurer.
This cost would be considerably more than the value placed on the ongoing liabilities for accounting purposes.
The fide cit in the Invensys Pension Scheme UK calculated on a winding up basis was approximately 2.2 billion as at 31 October 2012, the date of the last actuarial valuation prepared as part of the requirements for the disposal of Invensys Rail.
viii fide ned bene t schemes expected rate of return and analysis of scheme assets The expected long-term rate of return and market value of funded fide ned bene t schemes at 31 March 2013 were: Invensys Pension Scheme UK Invensys Pension Plan US Other Total Expected Expected Expected long-term Market long-term Market long-term Market Market 1 1 2 1 rate of return value rate of return value rate of return value value % m % m % m m Equities 7.0 42 7.1 296 7.0 137 475 Bonds 3.3 3,741 5.5 542 4.1 62 4,345 Other 2.7 695 4.6 98 5.1 21 814 Fair value of plan assets 4,478 936 220 5,634 1 Expected long-term rate of return is shown for completeness, but will not be used as a basis for developing the 2013 14 income statement charge due to changes in the revised version of IAS 19 which will apply in that period.
The expected long-term rate of return and market value of funded fide ned bene t schemes at 31 March 2012 were: Invensys Pension Scheme UK Invensys Pension Plan US Other Total Expected Expected Expected long-term Market long-term Market long-term Market Market 2 rate of return value rate of return value rate of return value value % m % m % m m Equities 7.3 201 7.1 185 7.4 119 505 Bonds 3.7 3,464 5.5 347 4.2 61 3,872 Other 6.0 568 4.6 440 5.2 24 1,032 Fair value of plan assets 4,233 972 204 5,409 2 The change in mix of plan assets in the Invensys Pension Plan US results from an improved allocation of assets previously included within other and does not represent a change to the underlying investment strategy of the plan.
The expected return on each asset class has been determined on the basis of market expectations for the rate of return on each asset class over the life of the related obligation, at the balance sheet date.
In respect of the Invensys Pension Scheme UK, Government and Corporate Bond indices have been used to set the expected rate of return on bonds, and a risk premium has been applied to determine the expected long-term rate of return on equity investments.
Similar processes are applied to other schemes.
The investment strategy determined by the trustees of the Invensys Pension Scheme continues to re ect the mature nature of the scheme with assets predominantly invested in bonds or bond-like investments.
124 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements ix fide ned bene t schemes history of experience adjustments Unfunded Funded schemes schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension Scheme UK Plan US Other Total m m m m m Year ended 31 March 2013 Present value of fide ned bene t obligation 4,628 1,033 305 141 6,107 Fair value of plan assets 4,478 936 220 5,634 fide cit in the plan 150 97 85 141 473 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 33 6 4 31 Experience adjustments on plan assets 261 43 5 309 Year ended 31 March 2012 Present value of fide ned bene t obligation 4,326 1,070 274 131 5,801 Fair value of plan assets 4,233 972 204 5,409 fide cit in the plan 93 98 70 131 392 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 19 1 6 2 24 Experience adjustments on plan assets 214 107 1 320 Year ended 31 March 2011 Present value of fide ned bene t obligation 4,118 959 262 122 5,461 Fair value of plan assets 3,988 834 202 5,024 fide cit in the plan 130 125 60 122 437 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 15 12 4 3 20 Experience adjustments on plan assets 49 60 6 115 Year ended 31 March 2010 Present value of fide ned bene t obligation 4,056 982 283 149 5,470 Fair value of plan assets 3,902 820 197 4,919 fide cit in the plan 154 162 86 149 551 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 72 6 4 70 Experience adjustments on plan assets 263 2 23 288 Year ended 31 March 2009 Present value of fide ned bene t obligation 3,618 859 210 161 4,848 Fair value of plan assets 3,610 855 162 4,627 fide cit in the plan 8 4 48 161 221 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 96 5 10 111 Experience adjustments on plan assets 301 65 42 408 Cumulative actuarial gains and losses The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised since 1 April 2004 in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income is a loss of 487 million 2012: loss of 390 million.
com 125 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25 Pensions and post-retirement bene ts continued x Pensions and post-retirement bene ts other Total pension service costs charged to the income statement in respect of fide ned bene t and fide ned contribution schemes for the total Group amounted to 39 million 2012: 37 million.
As at 31 March 2013, the estimated levels of contribution expected to be paid to fide ned bene t schemes in the year to 31 March 2014 was as follows: Unfunded Funded schemes schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension 1 Scheme UK Plan US Other Total m m m m m 51 10 8 8 77 1 Following the disposal of Invensys Rail on 2 May 2013, the Invensys Pension Scheme UK fide cit reduction payment of 41 million will no longer be paid.
Other regular contributions will also be reduced.
Regarding rates of contributions for future years, following the triennial valuation of the Invensys Pension Scheme UK valuation date 31 March 2011, contributions to the Invensys Pension Scheme UK will be made at the rate of 19.8% of pensionable salaries up to the date of the next triennial valuation.
Following the sale of the Invensys Rail division as detailed in Note 35, a contribution of 400 million has been made to the Invensys Pension Scheme UK and a further payment of 225 million has been made into a reservoir trust.
As a result of these payments, the previous fide cit reduction payments of 40-47 million per annum have ceased and it is anticipated that no further fide cit reduction contributions will be payable into the scheme.
Under the Invensys Pension Plan US, contributions will be made at the level required to meet the minimum requirements set forth by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 and related regulations.
From time to time, discretionary amounts are contributed to enhance the security of participants bene ts based on other considerations, including available cash ow and the Companys tax position.
The following graphs show a projection of the bene t payments and the present value of the fide ned bene t obligations from the Invensys Pension Scheme UK and Invensys Pension Plan US based on the assumptions underlying the IAS 19 assessment of obligations at 31March 2013: Invensys Pension Scheme UK Invensys Pension Plan US 5.0 300 1.8 125 4.5 1.6 250 100 4.0 1.4 3.5 1.2 200 75 3.0 1.0 150 2.5 0.8 50 2.0 0.6 100 1.5 0.4 25 1.0 50 0.2 0.5 0 0 0 0 2013 2018 2023 2028 2033 2038 2043 2048 2053 2058 2063 2068 2073 2013 2018 2023 2028 2033 2038 2043 2048 2053 2058 2063 2068 2073 1 2 1 2 Present value of dened benefit obligations $bn benefit payments $m Present value of dened benefit obligations bn benefit payments m 1 The present value of fide ned bene t obligations has been adjusted to 31 March 2013 prices.
2 Bene t payments include assumed in ation.
126 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Present value of dened benefit obligations bn benefit payments m Present value of dened benefit obligations $bn benefit payments $m Group Financial Statements 26 Issued share capital Issued share capital Number Number of shares of shares million m million m Issued and fully paid: 2013 2013 2012 2012 Ordinary shares of 10p each 816 82 813 81 A reconciliation of the issued, allotted and fully paid share capital is as follows: Number Share of shares capital million m At 1 April 2011 810 81 Issue of ordinary shares of 10p each 3 At 31 March 2012 813 81 Issue of ordinary shares of 10p each 3 1 At 31 March 2013 816 82 Shares reserved for issue under share options and awards During the year, the Company issued 2,902,726 ordinary shares of 10 pence each pursuant to the exercise of options under the Invensys Savings Related Share Option Scheme SRSOS, Invensys Overseas Savings Related Share Option Scheme OSRSOS, and Invensys 2007 Long Term Incentive Plan 2007 LTIP 2012: 3,000,762 under the SRSOS, OSRSOS, Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Plan 1998 LTIP, 2007 LTIP, 2007 CEO Special Award and options granted to the former Chief Executive under an individual arrangement.
During the year, conditional awards over a total of 5,629,601 ordinary shares were granted under the 2007 LTIP 2012: 4,784,560.
No options were granted under the SRSOS and OSRSOS 2012: 2,110,542.
There were 12,337,370 conditional awards outstanding under the 2007 LTIP as at 31 March 2013 2012: 12,034,692 under the 1998L TIP and 2007 LTIP.
These conditional awards will be released at various dates between 2013 and 2015, subject to the satisfaction of the performance requirements and any appropriate holding period.
Outstanding options under the SRSOS and OSRSOS as at 31 March 2013 were as follows: 18,765 shares exercisable between September 2013 and March 2014 at an exercise price of 175 pence per share 2012: 2,185,135 and 1,825,241 shares exercisable between September 2014 and March 2015 at an exercise price of 246 pence per share 2012: 2,040,249.
Treasury shares Treasury shares comprise shares held by the Invensys Employee Share Trust.
The movement in treasury shares is set out below: Number of shares m At 1 April 2011 716,763 2 Purchase of shares 326,000 1 Distribution of shares under share option and share award schemes 651,545 2 At 31 March 2012 391,218 1 Purchase of shares 343,000 1 Distribution of shares under share option and share award schemes 416,665 1 At 31 March 2013 317,553 1 Shares held by the Invensys Employee Share Trust At 31 March 2013, the Invensys No.
2 Employee Bene t Trust the Trust held 317,553 ordinary shares of 10 pence each in Invensys plc with a market value of 1 million 2012: 391,218 ordinary shares of 10 pence each with a market value of 1 million.
The Trust holds ordinary shares in the Company which may be used to deliver ordinary shares under certain executive share schemes.
All the shares held by the Trust are solely for this purpose and are distributed to employees in accordance with the terms of the Companys schemes.
Shares held by the Trust are accounted for as treasury shares and deducted from equity.
During the year ended 31 March 2011, the Company established a Rabbi Trust in the US which is used to deliver ordinary shares of the Company in the US under certain executive share schemes.
The Rabbi Trust held no ordinary shares at 31 March 2013 2012: nil.
com 127 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 27 Nature and purpose of other equity reserves The analysis of the balance and movement on other equity reserves is shown in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
The nature and purpose of these reserves are as follows: Share premium account This reserve records the consideration premium for shares issued at a value that exceeds their nominal value.
Capital reserve Previously the Group merger reserve, this reserve was created on the merger of BTR plc and Siebe plc in February 1999 and is nondistributable.
Special reserve This reserve represents the balance remaining after the elimination of the fide cit in the reserves of the Parent Company following the capital reduction on 22 January 2009.
The reserve will remain, pending the settlement or consent of creditors or contingent creditors of the Parent Company in existence at the date of the capital reduction.
Cash ow hedge reserve This reserve records, for each hedged item in an effective cash ow hedge, the cumulative change in fair value of the expected future cash ow on the hedged item from the inception of the hedge relationship.
Foreign exchange reserve The foreign exchange reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
It is also used to record the foreign exchange on net investments in these subsidiaries.
28 Share-based payment plans i Measurement of fair value Share awards An adjusted market value method of valuation, based on market value at grant date and market-based performance conditions, has been used to calculate the fair value of all share awards granted during the year.
Share options The Black-Scholes option pricing model has been used to calculate the fair value of all share options granted during the prior year.
These options were granted under savings related share option schemes for which vesting is not dependent on market conditions.
Expected volatility was based on both historical volatility of the Companys share price over the previous 10 years and on the implied volatility of traded options of the Groups shares.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Share-based payment expense The Group recognised total expenses of 10 million 2012: 5 million related to share-based payment transactions during the year, of which 10 million 2012: 4 million related to equity-settled and nil 2012: 1 million related to cash-settled transactions.
The carrying amount of the liability relating to the cash-settled awards at 31 March 2013 is 1 million 2012: 1 million.
The Company operates various share schemes under which options and awards have been granted and are outstanding as set outb elow: ii Executive share options The Companys executive share option schemes have expired and are no longer in use.
All remaining options lapsed or were exercised in the year ended 31 March 2012, and none remained outstanding in the year ended 31 March 2013.
Executive share options included options granted under the Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Share Option Scheme and the option granted to the former Chief Executive, Ulf Henriksson, under a separate arrangement on 1 June 2004.
Details of relevant options outstanding as at 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2012 are detailed below.
No options were granted in the year.
Executive Share Option Scheme Weighted Number of average share options share price p Outstanding at 1 April 2011 803,298 532.71 Lapsed during the prior year 268,008 1,287.92 Exercised during the prior year 535,290 154.59 Outstanding at 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2013 Exercisable at 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2013 128 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements iii Long-term incentives Long-term incentives include awards granted under the Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, the Invensys 2007 Long Term Incentive Plan 2007 LTIP, the 2007 CEO Special Award, the Invensys Restricted Share Plan RSP and the Deferred Share Plan DSP.
All remaining awards under the LTIP and 2007 CEO Special Award were exercised in the year ended 31 March 2012, and none remained outstanding in the year ended 31 March 2013.
Grants Details of grants made during the year ended 31 March 2013 are detailed below: 2007 LTIP RSP Total number of awards granted 5,898,116 427,345 Weighted average fair value 215.01p 216.21p Exercise price n a n a Expected volatility 41.4% n a Weighted average expected award life 3.0 years 3.0 years Expected option life n a n a Expected dividend yield 2.05% 0% Riskfree interest rate 0.87% n a Details of grants made during the year ended 31 March 2012 are detailed below: 2007 LTIP RSP DSP Total number of awards granted 5,011,551 339,551 215,673 Weighted average fair value 253.07p 300.39p 279.38p Exercise price n a n a n a Expected volatility 46.3% n a n a Weighted average expected award life 3.0 years 2.1 years 2.4 years Expected option life n a n a n a Expected dividend yield 1.32% 0% n a Riskfree interest rate 2.36% n a n a No grants were made for the LTIP or 2007 CEO Special Award for the year ended 31 March 2013 or 31 March 2012.
Awards outstanding Details of relevant awards outstanding as at 31 March 2013 are detailed below: 2007 LTIP RSP DSP Outstanding at the beginning of the year 12,850,666 717,285 480,930 Granted during the year 5,898,116 427,345 Dividends during the year 47,272 9,954 2,796 Forfeited during the year 1,282,906 10,833 Exercised during the year 1,133,185 287,960 215,285 Lapsed during the year 3,022,174 1,436 Outstanding at the end of the year 13,357,789 854,355 268,441 Weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised p 218.50 224.88 213.74 Weighted average remaining contractual life years 1.54 1.74 0.51 Details of relevant awards outstanding as at 31 March 2012 are detailed below: 2007 CEO 2007 LTIP RSP DSP LTIP Special Award Outstanding at the beginning of the year 15,309,776 1,085,931 472,685 11,012 377,861 Granted during the year 5,011,551 339,551 215,673 Dividends during the year 56,210 9,001 4,850 Forfeited during the year 4,429,048 238,500 Exercised during the year 2,115,248 478,698 212,278 11,012 377,861 Lapsed during the year 982,575 Outstanding at the end of the year 12,850,666 717,285 480,930 Weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised p 268.65 292.58 307.65 303.50 293.10 Weighted average remaining contractual life years 1.35 1.44 1.20 n a n a Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.
com 129 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 28 Share-based payment plans continued iv All employee schemes All employee schemes comprise the Invensys Savings Related Share Option Scheme and the Invensys Overseas Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
Grants No options were granted under these schemes in the year ended 31 March 2013.
Details of grants made during the year ended 31 March 2012 are detailed below: Invensys Invensys Overseas Savings Savings Related Related Scheme Scheme Total number of awards granted 929,839 1,949,328 Weighted average fair value 118.77p 118.77p Exercise price 246.00p 246.00p Expected volatility 46% 46% Weighted average expected award life 3 years 3 years Expected option life n a n a Expected dividend yield 1.32% 1.32% Riskfree interest rate 2.36% 2.36% Options outstanding Details of relevant options outstanding as at 31 March 2013 are detailed below: Invensys Savings Related Invensys Overseas Savings Scheme Related Scheme Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average share options share price p share options share price p Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,899,443 207.94 3,460,520 214.62 Granted during the year Forfeited during the year 30,565 214.43 121,856 188.75 Exercised during the year 994,933 175.31 1,108,075 175.21 Lapsed during the year 81,197 242.26 425,857 140.61 Outstanding at the end of the year 792,748 240.00 1,804,732 239.32 Exercisable at the end of the year n a n a Weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised p n a 175.31 n a 175.21 Details of relevant options outstanding as at 31 March 2012 are detailed below: Invensys Savings Related Invensys Overseas Savings Scheme Related Scheme Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average share options share price p share options share price p Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,136,130 175.00 1,581,320 175.00 Granted during the year 929,839 246.00 1,949,328 246.00 Forfeited during the year 28,152 191.36 21,266 190.59 Exercised during the year 29,283 175.00 13,546 175.00 Lapsed during the year 109,091 202.41 35,316 201.84 Outstanding at the end of the year 1,899,443 207.94 3,460,520 214.62 Exercisable at the end of the year n a 18,765 n a Weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised p n a 175.00 n a 175.00 130 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements Range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year Invensys Savings Related Scheme Invensys Overseas Savings Related Scheme Weighted Weighted Weighted average Weighted average average remaining average remaining Number of exercise contractual Number of exercise contractual share options price p life years share options price p life years 2013 175.00p 18,765 175.00 246.00p 792,748 246.00 1.42 1,785,967 246.00 1.42 792,748 246.00 1.42 1,804,732 245.26 1.42 2012 175.00p 1,018,207 175.00 0.4 1,529,214 175.00 0.4 246.00p 881,236 246.00 2.4 1,931,306 246.00 2.4 1,899,443 207.94 1.4 3,460,520 214.62 1.5 v Explanation of long-term incentive schemes for senior employees 2007 Invensys Long Term Incentive Plan 2007 LTIP Grant details A long-term incentive plan under which awards are granted to executive directors and senior executives at nil or nominal cost.
Depending on the country in which the participant is resident, the award would be delivered using one of the following mechanisms: a anominal or nil price option which is a right to acquire shares for a nominal or nil payment unless the Company determines otherwise : b a conditional share award: or c a cash award granted in respect of a nominal number of shares.
Awards are normally subject to a three-year performance period, commencing on the start of the financial year in which the date of award falls.
There is no retention period.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: Awards are subject to two independent performance conditions.
For executive directors: a 50% of an award is based on growth in the Companys TSR relative to the constituent companies of the Standard & Poors Global 1200 Capital Goods Index: and b 50% of an award is based on the compound annual growth rate CAGR in the Groups Earnings Per Share.
For Group Leadership Team members who are not executive directors: a 40% of an award is based on growth in the Companys TSR relative to the constituent companies of the Standard & Poors Global 1200 Capital Goods Index: and b 40% of an award is based on the CAGR in the Groups Earnings Per Share.
There are no performance conditions applying to the remaining 20% of an award.
For all other participants: a 35% of an award is based on growth in the Companys TSR relative to the constituent companies of the Standard & Poors Global 1200 Capital Goods Index: and b 35% of an award is based on the CAGR in the Groups Earnings Per Share.
There are no performance conditions applying to the remaining 30% of an award.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to ensure that, as a condition for the vesting of any TSR EPS shares, the underlying overall performance of the Group has been satisfactory.
Factors that will be taken into account will include consistency of earnings and the Groups cash position over the performance period.
Service requirements: If a participant is dismissed for cause before shares are released, the award will be forfeited.
If a participant resigns, their award will lapse unless the Remuneration Committee exercise their discretion.
If a participants employment ceases for good leaver reasons or any other reason determined at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, the financial performance tests will be measured at the normal vesting date and, subject to the outcome of the financial performance tests, the award will be pro-rated based on the period of service and released on the normal vesting date.
Scheme use The 2007 LTIP is used as the Groups main share-based long-term incentive plan under which share awards are granted.
The first grants under this plan were made in the year ended 31 March 2008.
Invensys Restricted Share Plan RSP Grant details A restricted share plan, whereby awards, to be satis ed by the transfer of existing issued shares or in cash, are granted to certain senior employees at no cost.
The vesting period for awards is determined separately for each award.
Vesting periods normally fall between one and three years.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: Awards are not subject to speci c performance conditions apart from continued employment throughout the vesting period and satisfactory personal performance.
Service requirements: Release of shares is generally subject to continued employment at the relevant date, although shares may be released early, on a pro-rata basis, in fide ned good leaver cases or for any other reason at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Scheme use The plan is operated predominantly for senior executives in special circumstances, such as recruitment and retention situations.
com 131 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 28 Share-based payment plans continued Deferred Share Plan DSP Grant details Any bonus earned under the Executive Bonus Plan EBP from 2007 08 onwards in excess of target performance was paid in deferred shares, with any bonus earned up to the target performance being paid in cash.
The shares would be released to the individual after three years, in the case of executive directors, and two years for all other participants.
All awards are satis ed by the transfer of existing issued shares.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: The amount of shares granted is set by reference to the performance targets speci ed for the executive in the EBP.
Service requirements: Save where a participant is dismissed for cause before the relevant release date, shares under award will be released to participants on the release date, unless the Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion should decide on a different release date.
Scheme use From 2008 09 onwards, where applicable, bonus in excess of target performance will only be paid in deferred shares to executive directors and members of the Group Leadership Team.
Bonus payments for all other members of the EBP are paid entirely in cash.
vi Explanation of all employee schemes Invensys Savings Related Share Option Scheme Grant details The Scheme, which operates in the UK, is based on a savings plan and is offered to eligible full and part-time employees.
Options may be granted at up to a 20% discount to the market price of the Companys shares immediately preceding the date of invitation.
The vesting period for the options is three years.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: The Scheme operates in the UK within speci c tax legislation and is therefore not subject to performance conditions.
However, a participant is required to complete the savings contract in order to exercise their options.
Service requirements: The general rule is that the option will forfeit if the participant leaves employment, although options may be exercisable for a certain period of time in fide ned good leaver cases.
Scheme use The use of the Scheme and potential future launches are reviewed on a regular basis.
Invitations were offered under this Scheme in the years ended 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2012.
Invensys Overseas Savings Related Share Option Scheme Grant details The Scheme operates in a number of overseas countries which are selected by reference to the numbers of eligible employees and local legal and tax requirements.
It is based on a savings plan and is offered to eligible full and part-time employees.
The vesting period for the options is three years, with the options being settled in shares or cash depending on the participants country of residence.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: There are no performance conditions.
132 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements 29 Commitments and contingencies Capital expenditure Capital expenditure for property, plant and equipment contracted at the balance sheet date but for which no provision has been made in the accounts amounted to 1 million 2012: 1 million.
Operating leases The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain land and buildings, motor vehicles and items of plant and equipment.
Land and buildings leases are generally subject to periodic rent reviews.
Some leases have renewal options.
These are at the option of the Group, sometimes subject to a minimum notice period.
In some cases rent escalations are set out in the lease contract.
There are no material contingent rents payable.
No signi cant restrictions are placed upon the Group by entering into these leases.
Operating lease payments 2013 2012 Total Group m m Minimum lease payments 41 39 Sublease receipts 1 Operating lease payments 41 38 Operating lease commitments Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Land and Land and buildings Other Total buildings Other Total 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 m m m m m m Not later than one year 50 9 59 42 7 49 After one year but not more than five years 85 11 96 89 7 96 Later than five years 60 60 73 73 195 20 215 204 14 218 The total of future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases at 31 March 2013 is 7 million 2012: 8 million.
Obligations under finance leases At 31 March 2013 future minimum payments due under finance leases and similar hire purchase arrangements together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: Present Present Minimum value of Minimum value of lease minimum lease minimum payments payments payments payments 2013 2013 2012 2012 m m m m Payable not later than one year 1 1 Payable after one year but not more than five years Total gross payments 1 1 Less: finance charges allocated to future periods Present value of finance lease obligations 1 Amount due for settlement within 12 months 1 Amount due for settlement after 12 months Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.
com 133 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29 Commitments and contingencies continued Contingent liabilities Group companies have given performance guarantees to certain subsidiaries and certain former subsidiaries prior to disposal in the normal course of business.
Counter-indemnities have been received from purchasers in the case of guarantees given in favour of former subsidiaries.
At the balance sheet date, the directors are not aware of any circumstances that may give rise to a liability to the Group under these performance guarantees.
No member of the Group is engaged in nor so far as the directors are aware has pending, or is threatened by, or has against it any legal or arbitration proceedings which may have a signi cant effect on the financial position of the Group, other than those already disclosed.
The Group had contingent liabilities in respect of bank guarantees as outlined in Note 21.
30 Reconciliation of cash ows 2013 2012 m m Net cash ows from operating activities 179 65 Capital expenditure included within investing activities 79 89 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 5 Interest paid 12 10 Taxation paid operating 44 34 Restructuring 21 27 Other operating exceptional item: costs to settle legal case 10 Facility fees paid 5 Legacy items: Pension contributions 62 80 Other legacy payments 17 62 97 Operating cash ow 244 159 Restructuring 21 27 Net finance costs paid 11 7 Facility fees paid 5 Taxation paid operating 44 34 Legacy items 62 97 Free cash ow 106 11 Operating cash ow attributable to: Continuing operations 136 124 Discontinued operations 108 35 The directors use two KPI measures of the Groups cash performance, operating cash ow and free cash ow.
Both measures are reconciled above, starting from net cash ow from operating activities reported in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement on page 8 4.
134 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements 31 Analysis of business combinations and business disposals i Business combinations Year ended 31 March 2013 On 10 May 2012, Invensys Rail acquired 100% of the share capital of PHW Inc. PHW, a privately held manufacturer of cab signalling systems and other safety electronic train control systems for the North American mainline and mass transit industries for a cash consideration of 12 million.
The Group acquired PHW as part of the continuing process to broaden the range of technologies and solutions that Invensys Rail is able to sell to its global customer base.
PHW provides complementary Positive Train Control PTC onboardproducts.
On 15 October 2012, Invensys Operations Management acquired 100% of the share capital of Spiral Software Spiral, a privately held company based in Cambridge, United Kingdom, for cash consideration of 38 million.
Spiral Software provides integrated solutions ranging from crude assay management to re nery supply chain optimisation.
The acquisition of Spiral strengthens Invensys Operations Managements position in the hydrocarbon processing industry and extends the re nery optimisation solutions that it offers to its customers.
The acquisitions have been accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting and the Group Financial Statements include the results of PHW and Spiral from their date of acquisition to 31 March 2013.
Acquisition of PHW The fair value of the identi able assets and liabilities of PHW at the date of acquisition was: Fair value recognised on acquisition m 1 Intangible assets other 5 Inventories 2 Trade and other receivables 1 Amounts due from contract customers 1 Cash and cash equivalents 2 Total assets 11 Total identi able net assets at fair value 11 Goodwill arising on acquisition 1 Total purchase consideration transferred 12 Total purchase consideration transferred comprises: cash payment 12 1 The intangible assets acquired represent the technology in respect of the existing product range and customer relationships.
Trade and other receivables includes trade receivables of 1 million.
The gross contractual amount of trade receivables is 2 million.
1million of the trade receivables has been impaired and it is expected that 1 million of the remaining contractual amount can be collected.
The goodwill shown above is attributed to the expected synergies and other bene ts arising from combining the assets and activities of PHW with those of the Group.
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Costs relating to the acquisition are negligible and have been expensed through operating pro t in the year ended 31 March 2013.
Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, additional amounts of up to 6 million will become payable to the former owners of PHW dependent on the attainment of certain agreed performance targets subsequent to the acquisition of PHW by the Group, as well as their continued employment.
These amounts will be expensed as incurred, to the extent that payment is probable.
1 million has been expensed in the year.
From the date of acquisition to 31 March 2013, PHW contributed a pro t of 1 million to the net pro t before tax of discontinued operations and revenue of 8 million.
These amounts are included in the Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013.
Had PHW been part of the Group for the whole of the year ended 31 March 2013, the pro t and revenue of the Group for the year would not have been materially different from the amounts shown in the Group Financial Statements.
com 135 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Acquisition of Spiral The fair value of the identi able assets and liabilities of Spiral at the date of acquisition was: Fair value recognised on acquisition m Property, plant and equipment 3 1 Intangible assets other 21 Trade and other receivables 1 Cash and cash equivalents 1 Trade and other payables 2 Net assets 24 Goodwill arising on acquisition 14 Total purchase consideration transferred 38 Total purchase consideration comprises: cash payment 38 1 The intangible assets acquired represent the technology in respect of the existing product range, customer contracts and customer relationships.
The goodwill shown above is attributed to the expected synergies, knowledge and expertise of the workforce and key management personnel, and other bene ts arising from combining the assets and activities of Spiral with those of the Group.
Costs relating to the acquisition of Spiral of 1 million were expensed in the year ended 31 March 2013 through operating pro t and are included in exceptional items in the income statement.
Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, additional amounts of up to 5 million will become payable to the former owners of Spiral dependent on the attainment of certain agreed performance targets subsequent to the acquisition of Spiral by the Group, as well as their continued employment.
From the date of acquisition to 31 March 2013, Spiral contributed a loss of 1 million to the net pro t before tax of the Group and revenue of 4 million.
Had Spiral been part of the Group for the whole of the year ended 31 March 2013, the pro t of the Group would not have been materially different and the impact on the revenue of the Group for the year would have been 8 million.
Cash ows on acquisitions Fair value recognised on acquisition m Analysis of the aggregate cash ows on acquisitions: cash paid included in cash ows from investing activities 50 net cash acquired with the subsidiaries included in cash ows from investing activities 3 transaction costs of the acquisitions included in cash ows from investing activities 1 Net cash out ow 48 Year ended 31 March 2012 There were no acquisitions in the year.
ii Business disposals Invensys Rail was classi ed as discontinued during the year ended 31 March 2013.
The sale was completed subsequent to the year end date Note 35 and will be accounted for in the year ending 31 March 2014.
No operations were discontinued in the year ended 31 March 2012.
Additional costs have been incurred in both years in relation to prior year disposals.
2013 2012 m m Net cash ow arising on disposal: cash costs of disposal 11 7 11 7 136 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Financial Statements 32 Directors loans During the year ended 31 March 2011, a loan was made to Mr Henriksson while he was a director of the Company in view of the double taxation suffered in relation to his US employment duties in 2009 10.
Mr Henriksson left the Company on 24 March 2011.
Invensys Systems Inc. advanced 312,691 on 29 June 2010 to Mr Henriksson, being an amount equal to the expected refunds due from HMRC.
As at 31 March 2013 this loan remains outstanding, is free of any interest, and will be repayable within five business days from the date of HMRC making the expected refund to Mr Henriksson.
Mr Henrikssons repayment obligations are not affected by the termination of his employment with the Company.
A further loan has been advanced to Mr Edmunds during the year ended 31 March 2013 in view of the double taxation suffered in relation to his US employment duties in 2010 11 and 2011 12.
Invensys Systems Inc. advanced 78,498 on 24 May 2012 to Mr Edmunds, being an amount equal to the expected refunds due from HMRC.
As at 31 March 2013 an amount of 65,532 remained outstanding, with the balance being repaid to Invensys Systems Inc. on 13 May 2013 following HMRC refunding the amount to Mr Edmunds.
No further loan has been advanced to any director during the year ended 31 March 2013.
33 Related party disclosures These Financial Statements include the Financial Statements of the Group and its subsidiaries.
Details of the Groups principal subsidiaries are included in the listing of Principal Subsidiaries on page 156.
Details of transactions that have been entered into with related parties for the years ended 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2012 areasfollows: i Remuneration of key management personnel The key management comprises the Group Leadership Team and the non-executive directors.
This represents a change from previous years, when key management was considered to comprise only the directors.
The Group has changed its conclusion on the composition of key management as a result of the increased contribution to decision making made by those members of the Group Leadership Team who are not also directors.
The membership of the Group Leadership Team and the non-executive directors are disclosed on pages 43 and 44.
Remuneration is as follows: 2013 2012 m m Short-term employee bene ts 8 2 Share-based payment 1 9 2 Short-term employee bene ts comprise salary and bene ts earned during the year and bonuses awarded for the year.
Full details of individual directors remuneration are given in the Remuneration Report.
ii Other related party transactions There are no other related party transactions that have a material effect on the financial position or performance of the Group in the year 2012: none other than the directors loans disclosed in Note 32.
34 Dividends paid and proposed 2013 2012 m m Paid during the year Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2013: 1.75p 2012: 1.65p 15 13 Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2012: 2.75p 2011: 2.5p 22 20 37 33 Proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2013: 2.85p 2012: 2.75p 23 22 23 22 The interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2013 was declared by the Board on 14 November 2012 and paid on 21 December 2012.
The final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2012 was approved by shareholders on 13 July 2012 and paid on 3 August 2012.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM on 25 July 2013, the proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2013 will be paid on 2 August 2013 to shareholders on the register at 21 June 2013, and will be accounted for as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ended 31 March 2014.
The Invensys Employee Share Trust has waived its right to the final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2013 payable on the 317,553shares that it owns 2012: 391,218 shares.
The Trust also waived its right to the interim dividend for the year ended 31March2013 payable on the 106,338 shares that it owned.
com 137 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 35 Events after the balance sheet date Sale of Invensys Rail On 28 November 2012, Invensys signed an agreement to sell Invensys Rail to Siemens for a gross cash consideration of 1.7 billion.
Theconsideration comprised 1.3 billion in exchange for the shares of Invensys Rail and 0.4 billion paid to Invensyss UK Pension Scheme.
The transaction completed on 2 May 2013 and will be accounted for in the year ending 31 March 2014.
Payment to reservoir trust in favour of Invensyss UK Pension Scheme On 2 May 2013 on receipt of proceeds from the sale of Invensys Rail, Invensys paid 225 million into a reservoir trust in favour of Invensyss UK Pension Scheme.
The Reservoir Trust Deed contains a mechanism for future payments to be made from the reservoir trust to either the pension trustee or the Company dependent on the funding position of the scheme, commencing in 2018.
Following this payment, and the receipt by the UK Pension Scheme of the 400 million payment on the sale of Invensys Rail, the fide cit reduction payments of 40 47 million per annum previously agreed with the trustees ceased.
It is anticipated that no further contributions will be payable into the scheme for the foreseeable future.
Return of cash The Group proposes to return cash to shareholders of 625 million around 76 pence per share from the proceeds of the sale, subject to the approval of Invensys shareholders at a General Meeting which is expected to take place in June 2013.
It is proposed that the return of cash will be followed by a share capital consolidation.
The return of cash will be accounted for in the year ending 31 March 2014 as a reduction in retained earnings.
Bank facilities Following the completion of the sale of Invensys Rail on 2 May 2013, the Groups revolving credit facility was reduced by 100 million to 150 million.
The Groups guarantee facility remains at 350 million.
36 Exchange rates Year ended Year ended As at As at 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 2013 2012 average average closing closing US$ to 1 1.58 1.60 1.52 1.60 Euro to 1 1.22 1.16 1.19 1.20 138 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
