Other Information Shareholder Information Ordinary shares Financial calendar The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Financial year end 2012 13 31 March 2013 Full-year results 2012 13 announced 16 May 2013 Registrars For all enquiries about the registration of your shares please contact Ex dividend date 19 June 2013 theCompanys registrars: Record date for 2012 13 final dividend 21 June 2013 Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, Closing date for DRIP Mandate Form 12 July 2013 West Sussex BN99 6DA Tel: 0871 384 2036 inside the UK Annual General Meeting 25 July 2013 Tel: 44 0 121 415 7040 outside the UK Payment date for 2012 13 final dividend 2 August 2013 Calls are charged at 8 pence per minute plus network extras.
Settlement date for DRIP shares 8 August 2013 Linesareopen from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays.
Half-year results 2013 14 announced 7 November 2013 Information on how to manage your shareholdings can be found at https: help.
co. uk where you will nd: Results announcements Results announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange and answers to commonly asked questions regarding shareholder are released through its news services.
Shortly thereafter they are made registration: available at www.
com links to downloadable forms, guidance notes, and Company history fact sheets: and Financial reports a choice of contact methods via email, telephone, or writing.
This Annual Report and Accounts, together with other published If your question is not answered by the information provided, you can summary documents and copies of previous financial reports, is send your enquiry via secure email from these pages.
You will be asked available at www.
com to complete a structured form and to provide your shareholder reference number this can be found on share certi cates and recent tax Annual General Meeting vouchers, name and address.
You will also need to provide your email The AGM is the Companys principal forum for communication with address if this is how you would like to receive your response.
Investors holding shares in the Company through a nominee service should arrange to be appointed as a corporate Electronic communications representative or proxy in respect of their shareholding in order to attend Shareholders can view up-to-date information about their shareholding and vote at the meeting.
The 2013 AGM will be held on Thursday 25 July and register to receive future electronic communications from the 2013 at 11.00am at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Company by visiting www.
co. uk shareholder reference Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
Once registered you will also be able to update your details such as a change of address or register for your dividends ShareGift to be paid directly into your chosen bank building society.
Shareholders with small holdings of shares who do not wish to sell such shares because the sales commission applied would be Invensys nominee service disproportionate to the sale price may consider donating them to The Company has a nominee service under which shareholders can charity.
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share hold their shares electronically rather than in certi cate form.
the service, shareholders can also take advantage of streamlined ShareGift can be contacted at 17 Carlton House Terrace, dealing arrangements.
Details of the service are contained in the LondonSW1Y5AH or by telephone on 44 0 20 7930 3737 Invensys Corporate Nominee Service brochure, which is available oronlineatwww.
Dividend Shareview dealing service The Board has recommended a final dividend of 2.85 pence per share, Shareholders may buy or sell shares via the Internet or by amounting to 23million, which brings the total dividends payable in telephonethrough Shareview, a share dealing service provided respect of the year ended 31 March 2013 to 4.6 pence per share 2012: byEquiniti.
For Internet purchases and sales, log on to 4.4 pence per share, an increase of 5%.
The amount paid per share www.
co. uk dealing and for telephone purchases could increase dependent upon the share capital consolidation as andsales, call 08456 037 037 inside the UK only between 8.00am detailed below.
If the return of cash to shareholders and subsequent share capital American Depositary Receipts ADRs consolidation are approved by shareholders and takeplace as planned, The Company has a sponsored Level 1 ADR programme for which the the Board has recommended that the total amount of the final dividend Deutsche Bank Trust Company acts as Depositary.
The Company is will remain the same, 23 million, but will be paid on the smaller number quoted on the premium tier of the US Over-The-Counter market, of shares in issue resulting from the share consolidation.
Therefore the OTCQX International Premier: more information can be obtained from amount paid pershare would increase and details of thesechanges will www.
Each ADR represents one ordinary share of the be set out in the circular toshareholders to be issued regarding the Company.
The ADRs trade under the ticker symbol IVNYY.
enquiries, registered ADR holders may contact the dedicated Invensys plc ADR shareholder services line on 1 800 937 5449 or 17189218124 toll-free for US residents only.
Further information is also available at www.
com Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.
com 157 Shareholder Information continued The Company decided to introduce a dividend reinvestment plan DRIP Registered of ce in 2011, which enables shareholders to reinvest their dividends directly Invensys plc, 3rd Floor, 40 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7AW into Invensys shares.
For further information on the DRIP please contact Tel: 44 0 20 3155 1200 Equiniti.
The Company will issue a consolidated tax voucher to those Fax: 44 0 20 3155 1201 shareholders who receive dividends direct to their bank accounts.
This Registered in England & Wales number 166023 will be issued in December of each year when the interim dividend if For the latest investor information and news, visit our website at any is normally paid, unless shareholders advise the registrars in writing www.
com that they wish to receive a separate tax voucher with each dividend payment.
Institutions and other companies that hold shares in the Warning to shareholders Company will continue to receive a tax voucher for each dividend In recent years, many companies have become aware that their payment.
shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence As dividends are currently only paid in sterling, for overseas concerning investment matters which imply a connection to the shareholders with small shareholdings it may not be economically company concerned.
These are typically from overseas-based viablefor them to convert sterling payments into their local currency.
brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often Shareholders can, should they so wish, arrange for their dividends to turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in US or UK investments.
bepaid to a charity in the UK.
ShareGift is a UK registered charity which They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive : the Financial takes unwanted shares and donations and uses the proceeds to make Conduct Authority FCA has found that the average amount lost by donations to a wide range of other UK registered charities.
investors is 20,000, with around 200 million lost in the UK each year.
In order to donate outstanding dividend payments to charity, It is not just the novice investor who has been duped in this way: many shareholders need to send a signed letter of authority to Equiniti asking of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
them to make all outstanding payments payable to ShareGift or another Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, charity.
If not ShareGift, the charitys full name and address needs to be offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free reports about the included.
For future dividends, if shareholders wish for these to be paid direct to If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: ShareGift, this needs to be clearly stated in their letter of authority.
For Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation allother charities, shareholders will need to include the charitys bank and make a record of any other information they give you e. g. account details to enable the payments to be made by Equiniti via telephone number, address, etc.
Check that they are properly authorised by the FCA before getting involved.
You can check at Identity theft www.
uk rms systems-reporting register Criminals may steal your personal information, putting your The FCA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised overseas shareholding at risk.
Tips on protecting your shareholding: rms who are targeting or have targeted UK investors, and any Ensure all your certi cates are kept in a safe place or hold your shares approach from such organisations should be reported to the FCA, so electronically in CREST via a nominee that this list can be kept up-to-date and any other appropriate action Keep all correspondence from the registrars which shows your can be considered shareholder reference number in a safe place, or destroy If you deal with an unauthorised rm, you would not be eligible to correspondence by shredding receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation If you change address, inform the registrars.
If you receive a letter Scheme.
The FCA can be contacted on their Consumer Helpline on from the registrars regarding a change of address and have not 0800 111 6768 and more information can be found on the FCA recently moved, please contact them immediately.
You may be the website www.
uk consumers protect-yourself victim of identity theft  If you are buying or selling shares, only deal with brokers registered Inform the Companys registrars on 0871 384 2036.
They are not able inyour country of residence or the UK to investigate such incidents themselves but will record the details and pass them on to the Company and liaise with the FCA Forward-looking statements Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be This report includes forward-looking statements, within the meaning of included in Company mailings.
the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act 1995, which are based on market projections, forecasts and expectations.
Forward-looking More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the statements are by their nature subject to uncertainties and external Money Advice Service website at www.
uk factors that may affect the actual outcomes compared with those anticipated.
Unsolicited mail The Company is legally obliged to make its share register available tothe general public.
Consequently, some shareholders may receive unsolicited mail, including correspondence from unauthorised investment rms.
If you wish to limit the amount of unsolicited mail youreceive please contact: The Mailing Preference Service, DMA House, 70 Margaret Street, London W1W 8SS Tel: 0845 703 4599 or online at www.
uk 158 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
