Shareholder information Our website Dividends AMECs website, amec.
com, is the best source of useful, AMECs interim dividend is usually announced with up-to-date information about AMEC and its activities, thehalf-year results and paid in the following January: including annual reports, AGM documents and other the final dividend is proposed with the full-year results shareholder communications.
All announcements made to the London Stock Exchange Dividends can be paid directly into your bank or building can be found at amec.
com rns and alerting services are society account and can also be paid in local currency in available at amec.
Contact our registrars for more details.
AMECs registrars We have a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP if you would AMECs registrars are Capita Asset Services.
They prefer to buy more AMEC shares rather than receive maintain the shareholder register on our behalf and cash dividends.
This is only available to shareholders in handle all the administration related to it.
You can find out more on our website beyour first point of call if you have any queries relating amec.
com investors  dividends toyour shareholding inAMEC.
The best way to contact or by contacting our registrars.
them depends on the type of query you may have.
For DRIP, electronic communications Electronic shareholder communication andgeneralenquiries The majority of AMECs shareholders now receive Email shareholderenquiries@capita.
co. uk information from us electronically.
If you have elected to do so and provided an email address, you will receive an Website www.
com email from our registrars whenever any new shareholder Postal address Capita Asset Services information is published.
In the absence of an email The Registry address, you will be sent a letter which includes details 34 Beckenham Road ofwhere the information can be found on our website.
Beckenham You can register for electronic shareholder communication Kent BR3 4TU and also manage your personal shareholding online at United Kingdom www.
You will need your Investor 1 2 Telephone UK 0871 664 0300 Code IVC which can be found on your proxy card, share Others 44 20 8639 3399 certificate or dividend tax voucher.
Payment of dividends overseas Printed copies of the annual report 1 Telephone 44 20 8639 0385 Shareholders may receive a printed copy of AMECs Email ips@capita.
co. uk latestannual report on request, within a reasonable 1 Lines open 9.00am t o 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday timeperiod, by writing to our registered office or by excluding public holidays fillingin the form on our website amec.
com investors 2 Calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network extras  free report.
Financial calendar AMECs registered office AMECs year end is 31 December.
The normal annual AMEC plc calendar is as follows: Booths Park Chelford Road Full-year results issued February Knutsford Annual report published March Cheshire WA16 8QZ Annual general meeting April United Kingdom Half-year results issued August Registered in England No 1675285 Interim management statements April and November Full details are available at amec.
150 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 Our values Sustainably delivering excellence to our customers by: Believing in people Never compromising on safety Acting with integrity Cover shows AMEC employees working in mining, Perth, Australia This report is printed using vegetable-based inks by Pureprint Group, a company totally committed to reducing theimpact printing has on the environment.
The production of this report is carbon neutral and Pureprint Group iscertified to ISO 14001, registered to EMAS Eco Management Audit Scheme and holds the FSC Chain of Custody: number SCS-COC-000620 as well as the Queens Award for Enterprise: Sustainable Development.
This report is printed on Magno Silk, a paper produced from virgin wood fibre from well managed forests certifiedin accordance with the rules of the FSC Forest Stewardship Council and is ECF elemental chlorine free.
The producing mill is certified to ISO 14001 and EMAS environmental management systems.
Designed and produced by AMEC Corporate Communications in association with The Design Portfolio MarketingServices.
Collaborating, improving and growing | AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 AMEC plc Old Change House 128 Queen Victoria Street London EC4V 4BJ United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 20 7429 7500 amec.
