178 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Financials Glossary Broadcasters Audience Research Board BARB Net Advertising Revenues NAR the amount of money organisation owned by broadcasters and advertisers received by a broadcaster as payment for television spot providing data on television viewing statistics in UK advertising net of any commission paid to agencies households Network Programme Budget NPB the budget spent on Catch up viewing non-live viewing of recently broadcast programming broadcast on the ITV channel, excluding spend television programmes, either via a recording device often on regional programming and ITV Breakfast called a PVR or DTR such as Sky or through a Video on Non-consolidated licensees the three regional channel 3 Demand service such as ITV Player, BBC iPlayer, 4oD or licences which ITV does not own.
These licences are owned Demand 5 by STV and UTV and revenues received from these licences Channel 3 licences the 15 regional licences and one for ITV programming content are referred to as minority national licence awarded to transmit Channel 3 across the revenues UK.
All are owned by ITV with the exception of three of the Non-NAR revenues non-NAR revenues includes all ITV regional licences, two of which are owned by STV and one by revenues, both internal and external, except net advertising UTV revenues NAR.
This includes inter-segment revenues from Contract Rights Renewal CRR the remedy agreed by the sale of ITV Studios shows to the ITV Network Carlton and Granada in 2003 as a pre-condition of the Ofcom the regulator established to govern UK merger, which governs the way in which ITV airtime is sold broadcasting as well as other areas of the media and by ITV to its advertising customers telephony industry Digital switchover termination in 2012 of the analogue SDN multiplex operator owned by ITV which operates one terrestrial television signal in the regions in which it is still of the six digital terrestrial multiplex licences in the UK that broadcast.
BBC1, BBC2, ITV, Channel 4 and Channel 5 were make up Freeview broadcast in analogue Share of Broadcast SOB ITVs share of UK television Free-to-Air FTA television viewing of television through advertising revenues NAR, a measure of market share devices not requiring monthly subscriptions such as the Freeview or Freesat services Share of Commercial Impacts SOCI the term used to define the share of total UK television commercial impacts High Definition HD channels or services broadcast in which is delivered by one channel or group of channels.
This substantially higher resolution than standard, providing measure excludes viewing of BBC channels as they do not improved picture quality generate commercial impacts.
Unless stated otherwise, SOCI Impact or Commercial Impact one Commercial Impact figures cited throughout this report are based on BARB data is defined as one viewer watching one 30-second television and are based on the universe of Adults 16 commercial Share of Viewing SOV the share of the total viewing ITV Family the ITV Family of channels which includes ITV, audience during a defined period gained by a programme ITV2, ITV3, ITV4, CITV, ITV Breakfast, CITV Breakfast and all or channel.
This measure includes viewing of BBC channels.
Viewing figures include Unless stated otherwise, SOV figures cited throughout the whole of the ITV network.
Revenue figures include only this report are based on BARB data and are based on the ITV plc operated regions universe of Individuals Long form video requests video requests are a measure Video on Demand VOD the ability to deliver video of the total number of videos viewed across all platforms content to a customers television set, computer or device such as itv.
com, Virgin and mobile devices.
A long form when the customer requests it video is a programme that has been broadcast on television YouView a joint venture with the BBC, Channel 4, Channel and is available to watch online and on demand in its 5, British Telecom, TalkTalk, and Arqiva to operate and entirety promote a hybrid television platform combining Freeview Media sales commission earned by ITV plc on sales of channels with catch up and on demand services.
airtime on behalf of the non-consolidated licensees 23043-04 06-12-2013 Proof 1 167-182 Section 5-Company Accounts-Glossary.
indd 178 28 02 2014 12:32:43 This Annual Report is printed by an FSC Forest Stewardship Council, certified printer using vegetable based inks.
This report has been printed on Claro Silk, a white coated paper and board using 100% EFC pulp.
23043-04 10-12-2013 Proof 1 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 ITV plc The London Television Centre Upper Ground London SE1 9LT www.
