com Stock code: ITV Notes to the Financial Statements Section 1: Basis of Preparation In this section...
This section sets out the Groups accounting policies that relate to the financial statements as a whole.
Where an accounting policy is specific to one note, the policy is described in the note to which it relates.
This section also shows new EU endorsed accounting standards, amendments and interpretations, and whether they are effective in 2013 or later years.
We explain how these changes are expected to impact the financial position and performance of the Group.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable The financial statements consolidate those of ITV plc the expectation that the Group has adequate resources to Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and include the Groups interests in associates and continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Company is domiciled in the Accordingly, the Group continues to adopt the going concern United Kingdom.
basis in preparing its consolidated financial statements.
As required by EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 the Subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and Groups accounts have been prepared in accordance with special purpose entities International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly the EU IFRS, and approved by the Directors.
Control exists where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of The financial statements are principally prepared on the the entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
In basis of historical cost.
Where other bases are applied these assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently are identified in the relevant accounting policy.
exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The 2012 consolidated income statement and consolidated A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an statement of comprehensive income have been restated for interest under a contractual arrangement where the Group the retrospective application of IAS 19 Revised see note 3.7. and one or more other parties undertake an economic In addition, the consolidated statement of financial position activity that is subject to joint control.
The Group accounts has been restated for fair value adjustments to the net for its interests in joint ventures using the equity method.
assets acquired with acquisitions in 2012 see note 3.4.
Under the equity method the investment in the entity is The Company has elected to prepare its parent company stated as one line item at cost plus the investors share of financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
retained post-acquisition profits and other changes in net assets.
Going concern As a result of the Groups continued generation of significant An associate is an entity, other than a subsidiary or joint free cash flows the Group maintained its positive net cash venture, over which the Group has significant influence.
position while paying a special dividend.
The Group has also Significant influence is the power to participate in, but sought to gain further efficiencies in the balance sheet by not control or jointly control, the financial and operating repurchasing further debt where it is economically beneficial decisions of an entity.
These investments are also accounted to do so see section 4 for details on capital structure and for using the equity method.
A special purpose entity SPE is a legal entity which The Group continues to review forecasts of the television the Group may establish to fulfil a specific trading advertising market to determine the impact on ITVs and investment purpose.
Judgement is required when liquidity position.
The Groups forecasts and projections, determining if an SPE should be consolidated and involves taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading the evaluation of the substance of its relationships with performance, show that the Group will be able to operate the Group and the SPEs risks and rewards.
Those SPEs within the level of its current funding.
controlled by the Group are established under terms that impose strict limitations on the decision-making powers of The Group also continues to focus on development of the their management and that result in the Group receiving the non-advertising business, and evaluates the impact of majority of the benefits related to their operations and net further investment in acquisitions against the strategy and assets, being exposed to the majority of risks incidental to cash headroom of the business.
23043-04 06-12-2013 Proof 1 102-119 Independent Aud  1. indd 115 28 02 2014 12:29:32 Financial Statements Governance Performance and Financials Strategy and Operations Overview 116 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Financials Section 1: Basis of Preparation continued their activities and receiving the majority of the residual or Judgement is required when determining the appropriate ownership risks related to the SPEs or their assets.
classification of the Groups financial instruments.
Details on the accounting policies for measurement of the above SPEs are used in limited circumstances by the Group.
The instruments are set out in the relevant note.
only significant SPE is the pension funding partnership that was established in 2010 between the Group and the Trustee Recognition and derecognition of financial assets and of the ITV Pension Scheme as a way of establishing payment liabilities streams to the pension scheme.
The partnership, which is a The Group recognises a financial asset or liability when it Scottish Limited Partnership, is controlled and consolidated becomes a party to the contract.
Financial instruments are by the Group.
no longer recognised in the statement of financial position when the contractual cash flows expire or when the Group Current non-current distinction no longer retains control of substantially all the risks and Current assets include assets held primarily for trading rewards under the instrument.
purposes, cash and cash equivalents, and assets expected to be realised in, or intended for sale or use in, the course of Cash and cash equivalents the Groups operating cycle.
All other assets are classified as Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, call non-current assets.
deposits with a maturity of less than or equal to three months from the date of acquisition, cash held to meet Current liabilities include liabilities held primarily for trading certain finance lease commitments and gilts over which purposes, liabilities expected to be settled in the course of unfunded pension commitments have a charge.
The the Groups operating cycle and those liabilities due within carrying value of cash and cash equivalents is considered to one year from the reporting date.
All other liabilities are approximate fair value.
Foreign currencies Classification of financial instruments The primary economic environment in which the Group The financial assets and liabilities of the Group are classified operates is the UK.
The consolidated financial statements into the following financial statement captions in the are therefore presented in pounds sterling.
statement of financial position in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Where Group companies based in the UK transact in foreign currencies, these transactions are translated into pounds Loans and receivables separately disclosed as cash and sterling at the exchange rate on that day.
Foreign currency cash equivalents excluding gilts over which unfunded monetary assets and liabilities are translated into pounds pension commitments have a charge and trade and sterling at the year end exchange rate.
Where there is a other receivables: movement in the exchange rate between the date of the Available for sale financial assets measured at fair value transaction and the year end, a foreign exchange gain or loss through other comprehensive income.
Includes gilts over may arise.
Any such differences are recognised in the income which unfunded pension commitments have a charge statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured and equity securities that do not meet the definition of at historical cost are translated into pounds sterling at the subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates: exchange rate on the date of the transaction.
Held to maturity investments: Financial assets liabilities at fair value through profit or loss separately disclosed as derivative financial instruments in assets liabilities and included in noncurrent other payables contingent consideration : and Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost separately disclosed as borrowings and trade and other payables.
com Stock code: ITV The assets and liabilities of Group companies outside of The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or the UK are translated into pounds sterling at the year complexity are set out below and in more detail in the end exchange rate.
The revenues and expenses of these related notes: companies are translated into pounds sterling at the Revenue recognition note 2.1 average monthly exchange rate during the year.
Where Classification of financial instruments included in differences arise between these rates, they are recognised this note in the translation reserve within equity and other Business combinations note 3.3 and note 3.4 comprehensive income.
The areas involving the most sensitive estimates and Exchange differences arising on the translation of the assumptions that are significant to the financial statements Groups interests in joint ventures and associates are are set out below and in more detail in the related notes: recognised in the translation reserve within equity and other comprehensive income.
Defined benefit pension schemes, including the related On disposal of an interest in a joint venture or an associate, longevity swap note 3.7 the related translation reserve is released to the income Taxation note 2.3 statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Provisions note 3.6 Accounting judgements and estimates Business combinations note 3.4 The preparation of financial statements requires Impairment of assets note 3.2 and note 3.3 management to exercise judgement in applying the Groups Financial instruments note 4.1 accounting policies.
It also requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis, with revisions recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
23043-04 06-12-2013 Proof 1 102-119 Independent Aud  1. indd 117 28 02 2014 12:29:32 Financial Statements Governance Performance and Financials Strategy and Operations Overview 118 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Financials Section 1: Basis of Preparation continued New or amended EU endorsed accounting standards The table below represents new or amended EU endorsed accounting standards relevant to the Groups results that are effective in 2013: Accounting Standard Requirement Impact on financial statements IAS 19 Revised The IASB issued numerous amendments to IAS 19, The impact on the income statement has been reflected Employee Benefits ranging from the concept of expected return on in the current year and has resulted in finance costs plan assets to simple clarifications and rewording of of 20 million which is adjusted for in calculating disclosures.
adjusted profit, and operating costs of 13 million, which is included within EBITA.
The 2012 comparative The most significant amendment is the requirement performance has been restated to reflect an increase to calculate net interest income or expense using the in finance costs of 7 million to 16 million, and an discount rate used to measure the defined benefit additional 7 million in operating costs to 15 million.
obligation, whereas the previous standard required a The impact on 2012 statutory EPS is a decrease from separate expected return on assets to be used.
The amendment also clarifies that administrative The above amendments have not had any impact on the costs should be recognised within operating costs, 2013 and 2012 net asset position of the Group.
which differs from previous practice of including it as a deduction of assets.
The revised standard has been implemented in the current year by the Group, with retrospective application.
IAS 1 Financial The amendments to IAS 1 change the grouping of items The statement of other comprehensive income has Statement presented in other comprehensive income.
Items that been amended to reflect the update in presentation but Presentation could be reclassified to the income statement at a there is no impact on the Groups financial position or future point in time would be presented separately from performance.
items that will never be reclassified.
IFRS 13 Fair Value IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance under Longevity swap Measurements IFRS for all fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 does not The value of the longevity swap has increased from change when an entity is required to use fair value, but a negative asset of 118 million in 2012 under the old rather provides guidance on how to measure fair value method to a negative asset of 23 million in 2013 under under IFRS when fair value is required or permitted.
Had the old valuation method applied standard is effective for periods beginning on or after at 31 December 2013, the value of the longevity swap 1 January 2013. would have been negative 140 million.
The impact of the new valuation method is an increase in the net Longevity swap assets position of 117 million, with the remaining 22 IFRS 13 has resulted in a change in the method of valuing million offsetting movement being changes in market a longevity swap previously accounted for under IAS conditions over 2013.
The movement has been reflected 19R.
Under the new method the Group will be applying within the net remeasurement gain presented in the market-based assumptions to the measurement process statement of other comprehensive income.
previously the best estimate was taken.
The change in value of the swap has had no impact on the consolidated income statement of the Group.
Further details are in note 3.7.
There have been no other material impacts noted for the Group.
com Stock code: ITV The Directors also considered the impact on the Group of other new and revised accounting standards, interpretations or amendments on the Group that are currently endorsed but not yet effective.
Except where noted below, none are considered relevant to the Groups results and are effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
Accounting Standard Requirement Impact on financial statements IAS 32 Financial The amendments clarify the offsetting criteria, such as Based on the preliminary analyses performed, the Instruments when an entity has a legal right to offset and when gross amendments are not expected to have any impact on settlement is equivalent to net settlement.
IFRS 10 IFRS 10 replaces a portion of IAS 27 Consolidated and Based on the preliminary analyses performed, IFRS 10 Separate Financial Statements that addresses the is not expected to have any material impact on the accounting for consolidated financial statements.
It currently held investments of the Group.
also includes the issues raised in SIC-12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
IFRS 10 establishes a single control model that applies to all entities including special purpose entities.
The changes introduced by IFRS 10 will require management to exercise significant judgement to determine which entities are controlled and therefore are required to be consolidated by a parent, compared with the requirements that were in IAS 27.
IFRS 11 IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures and Based on the preliminary analyses performed, IFRS 11 SIC-13 Jointly controlled entities Non-monetary is not expected to have any material impact on the contributions by Venturers.
currently held investments of the Group.
IFRS 11 removes the option to account for jointly controlled entities JCEs using proportionate consolidation.
Instead, JCEs that meet the definition of a joint venture must be accounted for using the equity method.
IFRS 12 IFRS 12 includes all of the disclosures that were Although a number of new disclosures will be required, previously in IAS 27 related to consolidated financial there is no material impact expected on the Groups statements, as well as all of the disclosures that financial position or performance.
were previously included in IAS 31 and IAS 28.
These disclosures relate to an entitys interests in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and structured entities.
23043-04 06-12-2013 Proof 1 102-119 Independent Aud  1. indd 119 28 02 2014 12:29:32 Financial Statements Governance Performance and Financials Strategy and Operations Overview
