Governance Operating Board 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 36 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Governance Operating Board continued 1.
Neil Sachdev Property Director See page 35 Corporate Services Director Neil was appointed Property Director in July Tim joined Sainsburys in 2001 as Company 2010 and is also responsible for Sainsburys 2.
John Rogers Chief Financial Officer Secretary and is a member of the Operating environmental strategy.
He joined the See page 35 Board.
In addition to his role as Company Company as Commercial Director in 2007, Secretary, Tim is responsible for the Corporate where he helped drive the growth of the 3.
Mike Coupe Group Commercial Director Services Division comprising Central Security, Company as well as reduce running costs.
Neil See page 35 Insurance, Legal Services, Public Affairs, has a wealth of retail experience following 28 Safety and Shareholder Services.
Tim joined years at Tesco.
He was appointed to the Joint 4.
Helen Buck Retail Director Sainsburys from Exel plc, the global logistics Advisory Board of the Grantham Institute Helen was appointed to the Operating Board company, where he was Company Secretary for Climate Change in 2010 and since 2008 on 19 July 2010 as Convenience Director and Head of Legal Services 1994-2001.
Prior has been a member of the Business in the and was appointed Retail Director in March to this, he worked at the international law firm Community Mayday Leadership team focusing 2012.
Helen joined Sainsburys in 2005 Clifford Chance for six years and is a qualified on the climate change sector.
Neil is also and, after spending four years running solicitor.
a Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Brand Communications, moved to Trading Remuneration Committee and member of as Business Unit Director, Grocery in 2009.
Rob Fraser IT Director the Audit Committee of Intu Properties PLC.
Before joining Sainsburys, Helen held a Rob joined the Operating Board as IT Director Currently, Neil is Chairman of the IGD Board, number of senior positions at Marks and in July 2009, bringing many years of both a Director of the board of IGD Services Limited, Spencer Group plc, Woolworths and Safeway IT and retail experience to the role.
Rob was a member of the Business, Innovation & Skills and was a senior manager at McKinsey & previously Vice President, Retail, Consumer Board on Green Construction and a member Company.
Since December 2011, Helen has & Transport at CSC and spent ten years at of the Construction Advisory Council.
been a Non-Executive Director of LSL Property Boots where he undertook a variety of IT Services PLC.
roles including Group IT Director.
Sarah Warby Marketing Director also a member of the Boots Executive Sarah joined Sainsburys and the Operating 5.
Roger Burnley Managing Director of Committee and has worked for Rank Xerox Board on 30 January 2012 as Marketing General Merchandise, Clothing & Logistics and Marks and Spencer Group plc.
She has responsibility for all Roger joined Sainsburys Operating Board in Sainsburys marketing activity and Brand March 2006 as Supply Chain Director before 9.
Luke Jensen Group Development Communications, Non-Food Marketing, Digital assuming the role of Retail and Logistics Director Marketing, Customer Insights and Loyalty.
He was then appointed Luke joined Sainsburys and the Operating also has responsibility for Corporate Social Managing Director of General Merchandise, Board in June 2008 as Director of Strategy.
Sarah Clothing and Logistics in March 2012.
Roger He was appointed to the position of Managing previously held a number of senior positions at was previously Supply Chain Director at Director Non-Food in 2009, with responsibility Heineken and was their UK Marketing Director Matalan.
He spent his early career in retail for Clothing, General Merchandise and where she was responsible for a number of the management and buying at B&Q before joining Entertainment.
He was appointed Group UKs most high-profile FMCG brands.
Prior to ASDA WalMart, where he held a number Development Director in September 2011. this, she was Innovation Director at Heineken of positions before becoming their Supply In this role he is responsible for the online where she led the combined technical and Chain Director in 2001.
Roger is currently businesses, new business development, digital marketing team.
Earlier in her career, Sarah Vice President of the Chartered Institute of and oversees the group strategy.
He is also worked for several marketing agencies and Logistics and Transport UK and in September Chairman of Insight 2 Communication, our was a graduate at Unilever PLC.
2012 he joined the board of Transport for shopper marketing services joint venture London, for which he is also a member of the with Aimia, and Chairman of Anobii.
Previous Projects and Planning Panel.
roles include Director Partner and Head of the Consumer and Retail Practice of OC&C 6.
Angie Risley Group HR Director Strategy Consultants 2004-08 and Founder Angie was appointed Group HR Director and Group FD Executive Director of M8 Group and a member of the Operating Board in 2002-04.
She was most recently Group HR Director at Lloyds Banking Group and prior to this Angie was Group HR Director at Whitbread.
She is also a Non-Executive Director of Serco Group plc and chairs their Remuneration Committee.
Operating Board as at 16 March 2013.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 37
