Glossary Active Kids Our nationwide scheme to help EBITDAR Earnings before interest, tax, MSC Marine Stewardship Council.
inspire school children to take more exercise depreciation, amortisation and rent.
and to eat more healthily.
Launched in 2005, Multiple Traffic Lights Nutritional labels Active Kids is open to all nursery, primary and ESOP Trusts Employee Share Ownership which provide effective at-a-glance secondary schools as well as Scouts and Girl Plan Trusts.
information customers need to make healthier Guides in the UK.
co. uk activekids Fairtrade The Fairtrade label is an independent consumer label that guarantees Nectar The most popular loyalty scheme in Annual General Meeting AGM This year a fair deal for marginalised workers and small the UK, of which Sainsburys is a partner.
the AGM will be held on Wednesday 10 July scale farmers in developing countries.
2013 at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Producers receive a minimum price that covers Non-controlling interest The equity in a Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London the cost of production and an extra premium subsidiary not attributable, directly or SW1P 3EE at 11.00am.
that is invested in the local community.
uk basics Sainsburys entry level sub-brand OFT Office of Fair Trading.
Fair value The amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, Real discount rate Discount rate less bps Basis points.
between knowledgeable, willing parties in an inflation rate.
Brand Match Unique initiative using marketROCE Return on capital employed.
leading technology guaranteeing price match FSA Food Standards Agency.
on the basket of comparable grocery branded www.
uk RPI Retail Price Index.
goods with Asda and Tesco.
Over 14,000 branded grocery lines are included and the FTSE4Good The FTSE Group, an indexing Total shareholder return TSR The growth initiative works by offering customers who company, runs the FTSE4Good Index series to in value of a shareholding over a specified spend over 20 and buy at least one branded measure the performance of companies that period, assuming that dividends are reinvested product coupons at the till, there and then for meet CR standards, and to facilitate to purchase additional units of the stock.
We even include investment in those companies.
promotions provided the same number of www.
com ftse4good Taste the Difference Sainsburys premium products are bought.
Maximum value of sub-brand range of products.
FVTPL Fair value through profit and loss.
Method of valuing a financial instrument where Tu Sainsburys own label clothing range.
by Sainsburys Core own label brand.
changes in fair value are recognised directly in the income statement.
Underlying basic earnings per share CFPS Cash flow per share.
Profit after tax from continuing operations GDAs Guideline Daily Amounts.
attributable to equity holders of the parent Click & Collect Service which allows before any profit or loss on the disposal of customers to place general merchandise Gearing Net debt divided by net assets.
properties, investment property fair value orders online for collection from nearly movements, impairment of goodwill, financing 1,000 stores.
Group The Company and its subsidiaries.
fair value movements, IAS 19 pension financing element and one-off items that are material Company J Sainsbury plc.
IFRIC International Financial Reporting and infrequent in nature, divided by weighted Interpretations Committee.
average number of ordinary shares in issue CPI Consumer Price Index.
during the year, excluding those held by ESOP IFRSs International Financial Reporting trusts, which are treated as cancelled.
Corporate responsibility CR The need to Standard s. act responsibly in managing the impact on a Underlying cash flow from operations range of stakeholders: customers, colleagues, Income statement Formerly known as the Underlying cash generated from operations investors, suppliers, the community and the profit and loss account under UK GAAP.
for net rent and cash payments to the pension environment.
Joint venture JV A business jointly Dividend cover Underlying profit after tax owned by two or more parties.
Underlying operating profit Underlying from continuing operations attributable to profit before tax from continuing operations equity shareholders divided by total value of Kantar Worldpanel An independent third before underlying net finance costs and dividends declared during the year.
party providing data on the UK Grocery underlying share of post-tax profit or loss from Market.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP Allows shareholders to reinvest their cash Like-for-like sales The measure of year-onUnderlying profit before tax Profit after tax dividend in shares of the Company through a year same store growth.
from continuing operations attributable to specially arranged share dealing service.
equity holders before any profit or loss on the Live Well For Less Sainsburys customer disposal of properties, investment property Earnings per share EPS Earnings commitment to continue to help people live the fair value movements, impairment of goodwill, attributable to ordinary shareholders of the life they want to live, with quality products at financing fair value movements, IAS 19 pension parent divided by the weighted average fair prices.
financing element and one-off items that are number of ordinary shares in issue during the material and infrequent in nature.
year, excluding those held by ESOP Trusts, LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan.
which are treated as cancelled.
128 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Achievements Supermarket of the Year Employer of the Year We won the top award in the Retail We were recognised for the way we Industry Awards 2012 for the fifth place our colleagues at the heart of our time in seven years, with our Brand Match strategy, exemplified by our sponsorship promise, hailed as a game-changer in of the Paralympics.
RSPCA Retailer Best convenience retailer of the Year For the third year running Sainsburys Recognised for our efforts in bringing won Convenience Chain of the Year, affordable higher welfare food to a for our consistent execution over a large mass market.
Animal welfare Embedding sustainability As part of Compassion in World Farmings Sainsburys was rated as a global sector 2012 Good Farm Animal Welfare Awards, leader for the sixth year running in we were recognised as winners of the the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
Leadership and Innovation in Retail This index is one of the leading ways category for our innovative Pig Concept that sustainability is measured in the Farm, which is trialling new farming international business community.
techniques to improve the welfare of pigs in our supply chain.
Leading retailer for sustainability Official partner of We continue to be recognised for the London 2012 our sustainability approach in the Paralympic Games independent, highly regarded FTSE4Good Following our successful sponsorship of Index, which evaluates businesses from the London 2012 Paralympic Games, we around the world against key social, are continuing our support for paraenvironmental and governance practices.
athletics and athletics through Active Kids as well as sponsoring the Sainsburys Summer Series alongside British Athletics.
Investing in our people We were the first-ever food retailer to receive a Gold accreditation for our commitment to improve our business by investing in our colleagues.
This report is printed on UPM Fine.
The printer Further insight is certified to the environmental management TM system ISO 14001 and is also CarbonNeutral.
The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well managed forests certified Visit j-sainsbury.
co. uk in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
FSC Trademark 1996 Forest Stewardship Council, A. C. Cert no.
