Governance Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the applicable law and regulations.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 35 the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the Group and Company financial statements, which have been the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these the Group and Company: and financial statements, the Directors are required to: the Directors report contained in the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: position of the Group and Company, together with a description of the make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
prudent: By order of the Board state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless Tim Fallowfield it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will Company Secretary continue in business.
8 May 2013 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 71
