Financial statements Notes to the financial statements IAS 19 revised Employee benefits 1 General information J Sainsbury plc is a public limited company the Company Amendment to IFRS 1 First-time adoption, Government loans incorporated in the United Kingdom, whose shares are publicly traded Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures on assets on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company is domiciled in the United and liabilities offsetting Kingdom and its registered address is 33 Holborn, London EC1N 2HT, United Kingdom.
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement Annual Improvements 2011 The financial year represents the 52 weeks to 16 March 2013 prior financial year 52 weeks to 17 March 2012.
The consolidated financial These standards and interpretations have been endorsed by the EU.
statements for the 52 weeks to 16 March 2013 comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries the Group and the In June 2011, the IASB issued IAS 19, Employee Benefits revised 2011: IAS 19R.
The most significant change that will impact the Group is that Groups share of the post-tax results of its joint ventures.
the amendment requires the expected returns on pension plan assets, currently calculated based on managements best estimate of expected The Groups principal activities are grocery and related retailing.
returns, to be calculated at the liability discount rate.
The removal of the reserve for scheme expenses from within the defined benefit obligation 2 Accounting policies and service cost will also have an impact on both the Groups net assets a Statement of compliance and income statement.
The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted The standard is effective for reporting periods beginning on or after by the European Union and International Financial Reporting 1 January 2013 and the Group will therefore adopt the revised standard Interpretations Committee IFRICs interpretations and with those for the year ended 15 March 2014.
IAS 19R requires retrospective parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting application in line with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in under IFRSs.
The Companys financial statements have been Accounting Estimates and Errors.
The Group estimates that adoption prepared on the same basis and, as permitted by Section 408 3 of IAS 19R would have increased underlying profit by 2 million and of the Companies Act 2006, no income statement or statement of resulted in an additional charge of 18 million outside of underlying comprehensive income is presented for the Company.
profit in the year ended 16 March 2013.
The revised standard would have increased net assets before deferred tax by approximately 135 million at 16 March 2013. b Basis of preparation The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the The Group has considered the remaining above amendments to nearest million m unless otherwise stated.
They have been published standards and new standards that are not yet effective and prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, concluded that they are either not relevant to the Group or that they except for derivative financial instruments, investment properties and would not have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements, available-for-sale financial assets that have been measured at fair value.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs The following standards and revisions will be effective for requires the use of judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect future periods: the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses IAS 27 revised 2011 Separate financial statements during the reporting period.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are IAS 28 revised 2011 Associates and joint ventures believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which IFRS 9 Financial instruments classification of financial assets and form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of financial liabilities assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The areas involving a IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions IFRS 11 Joint arrangements and estimates are significant to the financial statements are disclosed in note 2c.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities Amendment to IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation on Amendments to published standards offsetting financial assets and liabilities Effective for the Group in these financial statements: Amendment to IFRS 10, 11 and 12 on transition guidance These standards are effective for accounting periods starting on or after 1 January 2014.
Amendments to IFRS 1 First-time adoption of IFRS, Severe This standard is effective for accounting periods starting on or after 1 January 2015. hyperinflation and removal of fixed dates for first-time adopters Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures, The Group has considered the impact of the above standards and Disclosures on transfers of financial assets revisions and has concluded that they will not have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements, apart from additional disclosures.
The Group has considered the above amendments to published standards that are effective and concluded that they are either not The accounting policies set out below and in note 3 have been applied relevant to the Group or that they do not have a significant impact on consistently to all periods presented in the financial statements by the the Groups financial statements, apart from additional disclosures.
Effective for the Group for the financial year beginning 17 March 2013: Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements, govern the financial and operating policies, generally accompanying Presentation of items of other comprehensive income a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The results of subsidiaries are included in the income statement from the date Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes, Deferred tax accounting for of acquisition or, in the case of disposals, up to the effective date of investment properties disposal.
Intercompany transactions and balances between Group J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 79 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of goods and services have been passed to the buyer and it can be measured reliably.
companies are eliminated upon consolidation.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency The cost of Nectar points is treated as a deduction from sales and with the policies adopted by the Group.
part of the fair value of the consideration received is deferred and subsequently recognised over the period that the awards are redeemed.
Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any impairment loss The fair value of the points awarded is determined with reference to the in the financial statements of the Company.
fair value to the customer.
Business combinations Finance income and costs The Group applies the acquisition method of accounting for business Finance income and costs are recognised in the income statement for combinations.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost using the a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities effective interest method.
This calculation takes into account interest incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration receivable or payable and fees and commissions received or paid that transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting are integral to the yield as well as incremental transaction costs.
Identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and contingent liabilities assumed in a business Cost of sales combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree Cost of sales consists of all costs to the point of sale including on an  basis, either at fair value or at the nonwarehouse and transportation costs and all the costs of operating retail controlling interests proportionate share of the recognised amounts outlets.
of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, Supplier incentives, rebates and discounts are recognised within cost the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity of sales as they are earned.
The accrued value at the reporting date is interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition included in prepayments and accrued income.
date through profit or loss.
Property, plant and equipment Joint ventures Land and buildings Joint ventures are jointly controlled entities in which the Group has an Land and buildings are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation interest.
The Groups share of the post-tax results of its joint ventures and any recognised provision for impairment.
Properties in the course are included in the income statement using the equity method of of construction are held at cost less any recognised provision for accounting.
Where the Group transacts with a joint venture, profits and impairment.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint the costs incurred attributable to bringing the asset to its working venture.
This includes capitalised borrowing costs.
Investments in joint ventures are carried in the Group balance sheet at Fixtures and equipment cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of Fixtures, equipment and vehicles are held at cost less accumulated the entity, less any provision for impairment.
depreciation and any recognised provision for impairment.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to Investments in joint ventures are carried in the Company balance sheet bringing the asset to its working condition and its intended use.
at cost less any provision for impairment.
Depreciation Sainsburys Banks fees and commissions, that are not integral to Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost of the assets to their the effective interest rate calculation, are recognised in the income residual values, on a straight-line method, on the following bases: statement as services are provided.
Where in the case of insurance commissions the income comprises an initial commission and profit Freehold buildings and leasehold properties 50 years, or the lease share both are recognised on completion of the service to the extent term if shorter reliably measurable.
Where there is a risk of potential claw-back, an appropriate element of the commission receivable is deferred and Fixtures, equipment and vehicles 3 to 15 years amortised over the life of the underlying loan or period of claw-back.
Freehold land is not depreciated Investment properties held by the Group are those contained within Buildings under construction are not depreciated.
its joint ventures with Land Securities Group PLC and The British Land Company PLC.
These are properties held for capital appreciation and Gains and losses on disposal are determined by comparing proceeds or to earn rental income.
They are initially measured at cost, including with the assets carrying amount and are recognised within operating related transaction costs.
After initial recognition at cost, they are profit.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and carried at their fair values based on market value determined by adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
professional valuers at each reporting date.
The difference between the fair value of an investment property at the reporting date and its Intangible assets carrying amount prior to re-measurement is included within the income statement but is excluded from underlying profit in order to provide a Computer software clear and consistent presentation of the underlying performance of the Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and Groups ongoing business for shareholders.
Externally acquired computer software and software licences are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives of five to seven years.
Costs Revenue relating to development of computer software for internal use are Revenue consists of sales through retail outlets and excludes Value capitalised once the recognition criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets Added Tax.
Sales through retail outlets are shown net of returns, the are met.
Other development expenditures that do not meet these cost of Nectar reward points issued and redeemed, colleague discounts, criteria are recognised as an expense as incurred.
When the software is vouchers and sales made on an agency basis.
Commission income is available for its intended use, these costs are amortised on a straightrecognised in revenue based on the terms of the contract.
line basis over their useful economic lives of five to seven years within administrative expenses.
80 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 F Fi ina nan nc cia ial s l st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements continued Finance leases 2 Accounting policies continued Assets funded through finance leases are capitalised as property, Goodwill plant and equipment and depreciated over their estimated useful lives Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration or the lease term, whichever is shorter.
The amount capitalised is the of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net lower of the fair value of the asset or the present value of the minimum identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
lease payments during the lease term at the inception of the lease.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset on the Groups balance sheet in the The resulting lease obligations are included in liabilities net of finance year in which it arises, and is considered to have an indefinite useful charges.
Finance costs on finance leases are charged directly to the life.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and again whenever income statement.
indicators of impairment are detected and is carried at cost less any provision for impairment.
Operating leases Assets leased under operating leases are not recorded on the balance Other sheet.
Rental payments are charged directly to the income statement Pharmacy licences are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
and any recognised provision for impairment and amortised on a straight-line basis over the licence period of up to 15 years within Sale and leaseback cost of sales.
A sale and leaseback transaction is one where a vendor sells an asset and immediately reacquires the use of that asset by entering Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated into a lease with the buyer.
The accounting treatment of the sale and amortisation and any provision for impairment.
They are amortised leaseback depends upon the substance of the transaction and whether on a straight-line basis over their contractual useful economic lives or not the sale was made at the assets fair value.
For sale and finance leasebacks, any apparent profit or loss from Impairment of non-financial assets the sale is deferred and amortised over the lease term.
For sale and At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of operating leasebacks, generally the assets are sold at fair value, and its property, plant and equipment and intangible assets to determine accordingly the profit or loss from the sale is recognised immediately whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an in the income statement.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset, which is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and Following initial recognition, the lease treatment is consistent with those its value in use, is estimated in order to determine the extent of the principles described above.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable Lease incentives amount of the cash-generating unit CGU to which the asset belongs.
Lease incentives primarily include up-front cash payments or rent-free For property, plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding periods.
Lease incentives are capitalised and spread over the period of goodwill, the CGU is deemed to be each trading store.
For goodwill, the lease term.
the CGU is deemed to be each retail chain of stores acquired.
Leases with predetermined fixed rental increases Any impairment charge is recognised in the income statement in The Group has a number of leases with predetermined fixed rental the year in which it occurs.
Where an impairment loss, other than an increases.
These rental increases are accounted for on a straight-line impairment loss on goodwill, subsequently reverses due to a change in basis over the term of the lease.
the original estimate, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, or its original carrying Operating lease income value less accumulated depreciation if lower.
Operating lease income consists of rentals from sub-tenant agreements and is recognised as earned.
Capitalisation of interest Inventories Interest costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of qualifying assets are capitalised to the cost of the asset, Inventories comprise of goods held for resale and properties held for, gross of tax relief.
or in the course of, development and are valued on a weighted average cost basis and carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net Non-current assets held for sale realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and Non-current assets are classified as assets held for sale and stated distribution.
Cost includes all direct expenditure and other appropriate at the lower of the carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell attributable costs incurred in bringing inventories to their present if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale location and condition.
transaction rather than through continuing use.
Non-current assets held for sale are not depreciated.
Cash and cash equivalents Leased assets Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and at bank, investments in money market funds and deposits and other short-term Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
For property overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of leases, the land and building elements are treated separately to the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and determine the appropriate lease classification.
cash equivalents for the purposes of the cash flow statement.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 81 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued In respect of the defined benefit pension scheme, the pension scheme 2 Accounting policies continued surplus or deficit recognised in the balance sheet represents the Current taxation difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the present value Current tax is accounted for on the basis of tax laws enacted or of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date.
The defined substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Current tax is charged benefit obligation is actuarially calculated on an annual basis using the or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items projected unit credit method.
Plan assets are recorded at fair value.
charged to equity or other comprehensive income, in which case the current tax is also dealt with in equity or other comprehensive income The income statement charge is split between an operating service respectively.
cost and a financing charge, which is the net of interest cost on pension scheme liabilities and expected return on plan assets.
Actuarial gains Deferred taxation and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they arise, in other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax is accounted for on the basis of temporary differences arising from differences between the tax base and accounting base of Payments to defined contribution pension schemes are charged as an assets and liabilities.
Any contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date are included as an accrual as at that date.
The Group has no further Deferred tax is recognised for all temporary differences, except to the payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
extent where it arises from the initial recognition of an asset or a liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of Long service awards transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit.
The costs of long service awards are accrued over the period the service It is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or is provided by the employee when it is probable that settlement will be substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to required and they are capable of being measured reliably.
Liabilities apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the recognised in respect of long-term employee benefits are measured at deferred income tax liability is settled.
the present value of the estimated future cash outflows to be made by the Group in respect of services provided by employees up to reporting date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary Share-based payments differences can be utilised.
The Group provides benefits to employees including Directors of Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except the Group in the form of equity-settled and cash-settled share-based when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity or other payment transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with for shares, rights over shares or the value of those shares in cash terms.
in equity or other comprehensive income respectively.
For equity-settled share-based payments the fair value of the employee Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences associated with services rendered is determined by reference to the fair value of the investments in subsidiaries, branches and joint ventures except where shares awarded or options granted, excluding the impact of any nonthe Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary market vesting conditions.
All share options are valued using an optiondifference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not pricing model Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo.
This fair value is charged reverse in the foreseeable future.
to the income statement over the vesting period of the share-based payment scheme.
Provisions For cash-settled share-based payments the fair value of the employee Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive services rendered is determined at each balance sheet date and the obligation as a result of a past event, for which it is probable that an charge recognised through the income statement over the vesting outflow of economic benefit will be required to settle the obligation, and period of the share-based payment scheme, with the corresponding where the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects The value of the charge is adjusted in the income statement over the current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks remainder of the vesting period to reflect expected and actual levels of specific to the obligation.
The increase in the provision due to passage options vesting, with the corresponding adjustments made in equity and of time is recognised as interest expense.
Onerous leases The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to Provisions for onerous leases, measured net of expected rental income, the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as are recognised when the property leased becomes vacant and is no a capital contribution.
The fair value of employee services received, longer used in the operations of the business.
Provisions for dilapidation measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised costs are recognised on a lease-by-lease basis.
over the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity.
Employee benefits Pensions Share capital The Group operates various defined benefit and defined contribution Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly pension schemes for its employees.
A defined benefit scheme is a pension attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares or options are shown plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
A defined contribution scheme is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
82 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 F Fi ina nan nc cia ial s l st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements continued Financial liabilities 2 Accounting policies continued Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded initially at Foreign currencies fair value, which is generally the proceeds received, net of direct issue Foreign operations costs.
Subsequently, these liabilities are held at amortised cost using the On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign operations are effective interest method.
translated into sterling at year-end exchange rates.
The results of foreign operations are translated into sterling at average rates Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or of exchange for the year.
The functional currency of the Company redemption and direct issue costs are accounted for on an accrual basis is sterling.
in the income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they Foreign currency transactions are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and The fair value of the liability component of a convertible bond is liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet determined using the market interest rate for an equivalent nondate are translated at the exchange rate ruling at that date.
This amount is recorded as a liability on an amortised exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the cost basis until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bonds.
The remainder of the proceeds are allocated to the conversion option.
This is recognised and included in shareholders equity, net of income Financial instruments tax effects and is not subsequently re-measured.
Financial assets Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and the equity The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: components of the convertible bonds based on their carrying amounts at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL, loans and receivables, at the date of issue.
The portion relating to the equity component is and available-for-sale AFS.
AFS investments are initially measured charged directly against equity.
at fair value including transaction costs.
Financial assets held at fair value through profit and loss are initially recognised at fair value and Trade payables transaction costs are expensed.
Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Financial assets at FVTPL include financial assets held for trading and those designated at fair value through profit or loss at inception.
Impairment of financial assets Derivatives are classified as held for trading unless they are accounted An assessment of whether there is objective evidence of impairment for as an effective hedging instrument.
Financial assets at FVTPL are is carried out for all financial assets or groups of financial assets recorded at fair value, with any fair value gains or losses recognised at the balance sheet date.
This assessment may be of individual in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
assets individual impairment or of a portfolio of assets collective impairment.
A financial asset or a group of financial assets is Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed considered to be impaired if, and only if, there is objective evidence of or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the The Group has no intention of trading these loans and receivables.
initial recognition of the asset a loss event and that loss event or Subsequent to initial recognition at fair value plus transaction costs, events has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial these assets are carried at amortised cost less impairment using asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
Income from these financial assets is calculated on an effective yield basis and is recognised in the For individual impairment the principal loss event is one or more missed income statement.
payments, although other loss events can also be taken into account, including arrangements in place to pay less than the contractual AFS financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in payments, fraud and bankruptcy or other financial difficulty indicators.
this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are An assessment of collective impairment will be made of financial included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of assets with similar risk characteristics.
For these assets, portfolio loss the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Subsequent experience is used to provide objective evidence of impairment.
to initial recognition at fair value plus transaction costs, these assets are recorded at fair value with the movements in fair value recognised Where there is objective evidence that an impairment loss exists on in other comprehensive income until the financial asset is derecognised loans and receivables, impairment provisions are made to reduce the or impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously carrying value of financial assets to the present value of estimated recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised in the income future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original effective statement.
Dividends on AFS equity instruments are recognised in interest rate.
the income statement when the entitys right to receive payment is established.
Interest on AFS debt instruments is recognised using the For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the charge to the income effective interest method.
statement reflects the movement in the level of provisions made, together with amounts written off net of recoveries in the year.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets have expired or where the Group has In the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, a transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the asset below its cost is considered in determining whether the asset is impaired.
Trade receivables If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently cumulative loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income at amortised cost using the effective interest method less provision statement.
The cumulative loss is measured as the difference between for impairment.
the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 83 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued c Judgements and estimates Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity The Group makes judgements and assumptions concerning the future instruments are not reversed.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value that impact the application of policies and reported amounts.
The of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and resulting accounting estimates calculated using these judgements and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after assumptions will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the but are based on historical experience and expectations of future impairment loss is reversed through the income statement.
Interest will continue to accrue on all financial assets, based on the The judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a written down balance.
Interest is calculated using the rate of interest significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements used to discount the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring are discussed below.
To the extent that a provision may be increased or decreased in subsequent periods, the recognition of interest will be Depreciation and amortisation based on the latest balance net of provision.
Judgement is used in assessing useful lives and residual values of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
The assets are Fair value estimation depreciated or amortised over their estimated useful lives to their The methods and assumptions applied in determining the fair values residual values.
of financial assets and financial liabilities are disclosed in note 29.
Goodwill impairment Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group is required to assess whether goodwill has suffered All derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value any impairment loss, based on the recoverable amount of its cashon the contract date and are also measured at fair value at subsequent generating units CGUs.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs reporting dates.
have been determined based on value in use calculations and these calculations require the use of estimates in relation to future cash flows Hedge relationships are classified as cash flow hedges where the and suitable discount rates as disclosed in note 12.
Actual outcomes derivative financial instruments hedge the exchange rate risk of future could vary from these estimates.
highly probable inventory purchases denominated in foreign currency.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are Impairment of assets designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised Financial and non-financial assets are subject to impairment reviews directly in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion based on whether current or future events and circumstances suggest is recognised immediately in the income statement.
If the cash flow that their recoverable amount may be less than their carrying value.
hedge of a firm commitment or forecasted transaction results in the Recoverable amount is based on the higher of the value in use and fair recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, then, at the time the value less costs to sell.
Value in use is calculated from expected future asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the cash flows using suitable discount rates and includes management derivative that had previously been recognised in other comprehensive assumptions and estimates of future performance as disclosed in note 11. income are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
Post-employment benefits Hedge relationships are classified as fair value hedges where the The Group operates a defined benefit scheme for its employees.
The derivative financial instruments hedge the change in the fair value of present value of the schemes liabilities recognised at the balance sheet a financial asset or liability due to movements in interest rates.
The date is dependent on interest rates of high quality corporate bonds.
The changes in fair value of the hedging instrument are recognised in the net financing charge recognised in the income statement is dependent income statement.
on the interest rate of high quality corporate bonds and an expectation of the weighted average returns on the assets within the scheme.
Other The hedged item is also adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to key assumptions within this calculation are based on market conditions the hedged risk, with the corresponding adjustment made in the income or estimates of future events, including mortality rates, as set out in statement.
Any changes to assumptions used will impact the carrying value of the retirement benefit obligation.
Sensitivity of the retirement To qualify for hedge accounting, the Group documents at the inception benefit obligation to changes in certain assumptions is provided in of the hedge, the hedging risk management strategy, the relationship note 30. between the hedging instrument and the hedged item or transaction and the nature of the risks being hedged.
The Group also documents the Provisions assessment of the effectiveness of the hedging relationship, to show Provisions have been made for onerous leases, dilapidations and long that the hedge has been and will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
These provisions are estimates and the actual costs and timing of future cash flows are dependent on future events.
Any Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not difference between expectations and the actual future liability will be qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement accounted for in the period when such determination is made.
Details of as finance income or costs as they arise.
provisions are set out in note 22.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires Income taxes or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge The Group recognises expected liabilities for tax based on an estimation accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging of the likely taxes due, which requires significant judgement as to the instrument recognised in other comprehensive income is retained in ultimate tax determination of certain items.
Where the actual liability equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is arising from these issues differs from these estimates, such differences no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised will have an impact on income tax and deferred tax provisions in the in other comprehensive income is transferred to the income statement period when such determination is made.
Detail of the tax charge and for the period.
deferred tax are set out in notes 8 and 21 respectively.
Offsetting financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
84 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 F Fi ina nan nc cia ial s l st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements continued 3 Non-GAAP performance measures Certain items recognised in reported profit before tax can vary significantly from year to year and therefore create volatility in reported earnings which does not reflect the Groups underlying performance.
The Directors believe that the underlying profit before tax UPBT and underlying diluted and basic earnings per share measures presented provide a clear and consistent presentation of the underlying performance of Sainsburys ongoing business for shareholders.
Underlying profit is not defined by IFRS and therefore may not be directly comparable with the adjusted profit measures of other companies.
The adjusted items are: Profit loss on disposal of properties: Investment property fair value movements these reflect the difference between the fair value of an investment property at the reporting date and its carrying amount at the previous reporting date: Financing fair value movements these are fair value gains and losses on non-derivative financial assets and liabilities carried at amortised cost, on derivatives relating to financing activities and on hedged items in fair value hedges: Impairment of goodwill: The financing element of IAS 19 Employee Benefits: and One-off items these are items which are material and infrequent in nature and do not relate to the Groups underlying performance.
The adjustments made to reported profit before tax to arrive at underlying profit before tax are: 2013 2012 m m Underlying profit before tax 756 712 1 Profit on disposal of properties 66 83 Investment property fair value movements 10 2 Financing fair value movements 10 16 IAS 19 pension financing charge credit 5 17 One-off items 9 3 Total adjustments 32 87 Profit before tax 788 799 1 Profit on disposal of properties for the financial year comprised of 67 million for the Group 2012: 82 million and a 1 million loss for the property joint ventures 2012: 1 million profit.
2 Financing fair value movements for the financial year comprised a 7 million loss for the Group 2012: 11 million loss and a 3 million loss for the joint ventures 2012: 5 million loss.
One-off items Included within one-off items is 20 million of transaction and transition costs incurred relating to the ongoing purchase of the remaining 50 per cent of Sainsburys Bank.
Other one-off costs of 5 million have been incurred for internal restructuring.
A disposal provision for indemnities of 16 million has also been released during the year as it is no longer required.
This provision was initially recorded within one-off items outside underlying profit before tax.
The 3 million one-off item in the prior year relates to the release of a provision in respect of the Office of Fair Trading dairy inquiry which was settled in full in October 2011.
4 Segment reporting The Groups businesses are organised into three operating segments: Retailing Supermarkets and Convenience : Financial services Sainsburys Bank joint venture : and Property investments The British Land Company PLC joint venture and Land Securities Group PLC joint venture.
Management have determined the operating segments based on the information provided to the Operating Board the Chief Operating Decision Maker for the Group to make operational decisions on the management of the Group.
All material operations and assets are in the UK.
The business of the Group is not subject to highly seasonal fluctuations although there is an increase in trading in the period leading up to Christmas.
The Group has continued to include additional voluntary disclosure analysing the Groups Financial services and Property investment joint ventures into separate reportable segments.
Revenue from operating segments is measured on a basis consistent with the income statement.
All revenue is generated by the sale of goods and services.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire segment assets that are expected to be used for more than one period.
The Operating Board assesses the performance of all segments on the basis of underlying profit before tax.
The reconciliation provided overleaf reconciles underlying operating profit from each of the segments disclosed to profit before tax.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 85 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Segment reporting continued Financial Property Retailing services investments Group 52 weeks to 16 March 2013 m m m m Segment revenue 23,303 23,303 Underlying operating profit 829 829 Underlying finance income 19 19 Underlying finance costs 130 130 Underlying share of post-tax profit from joint ventures 22 16 38 Underlying profit before tax 718 22 16 756 Profit loss on disposal of properties 67 1 66 Financing fair value movements 7 3 10 Investment property fair value movements 10 10 IAS 19 pension financing charge 5 5 One-off items 11 20 9 Profit before tax 784 2 2 788 Income tax expense 174 Profit for the financial period 614 Assets 12,163 12,163 Investment in joint ventures note 14 159 373 532 Segment assets 12,163 159 373 12,695 Segment liabilities 6,961 6,961 Other segment items 1 Capital expenditure 1,145 1,145 Depreciation expense note 11 504 504 Amortisation expense note 12 13 13 Share-based payments 33 33 1 Capital expenditure consists of property, plant and equipment additions of 1,120 million and intangible asset additions of 25 million.
Financial Property Retailing services investments Group 52 weeks to 17 March 2012 m m m m Segment revenue 22,294 22,294 Underlying operating profit 789 789 Underlying finance income 18 18 Underlying finance costs 127 127 Underlying share of post-tax profit from joint ventures 16 16 32 Underlying profit before tax 680 16 16 712 Profit on disposal of properties 82 1 83 Financing fair value movements 11 5 16 IAS 19 pension financing credit 17 17 One-off items 3 3 Profit before tax 771 16 12 799 Income tax expense 201 Profit for the financial period 598 Assets 11,774 11,774 Investment in joint ventures note 14 134 432 566 Segment assets 11,774 134 432 12,340 Segment liabilities 6,711 6,711 Other segment items 2 Capital expenditure 1,287 1,287 Depreciation expense note 11 486 486 Amortisation expense note 12 13 13 Share-based payments 27 27 2 Capital expenditure consists of property, plant and equipment additions of 1,265 million and intangible asset additions of 22 million.
86 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 F Fi ina nan nc cia ial s l st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements continued 5 Operating profit 2013 2012 m m Operating profit is stated after charging crediting the following items: Employee costs note 7 2,322 2,173 Depreciation expense note 11 504 486 Amortisation expense note 12 13 13 Profit on disposal of properties note 3 67 82 Operating lease rentals land and buildings 457 426 other leases 55 55 sublease payments receivable 34 29 Foreign exchange gains 6 One-off items note 3 9 3 2013 2012 Group m m Auditors remuneration Audit and audit related services Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.2 0.2 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.6 0.5 Audit related assurance services 0.2 0.2 Fees 1.0 0.9 In addition, tax advisory, tax compliance and other non-audit fees totalling 58,000 were payable to the auditors during the year 2012: 32,000.
6 Finance income and finance costs 2013 2012 m m Interest on bank deposits and other financial assets 19 18 IAS 19 pension financing credit note 30 17 Finance income 19 35 Borrowing costs: Secured borrowings 98 108 Unsecured borrowings 55 46 Obligations under finance leases 7 5 Provisions amortisation of discount note 22 2 2 Other 1 162 162 Other finance costs: Interest capitalised qualifying assets note 11 32 35 1 Financing fair value losses 7 11 IAS 19 pension financing charge note 30 5 20 24 Finance costs 142 138 1 Fair value losses relate to fair value adjustments on non-derivative financial assets and liabilities carried at amortised cost and on derivatives relating to financing activities and hedged items in fair value hedges.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 87 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 7 Employee costs 2013 2012 m m Employee costs for the Group during the year amounted to: Wages and salaries, including bonus and termination benefits 2,051 1,923 Social security costs 133 124 Pension costs defined contribution schemes 44 39 Pension costs defined benefit scheme note 30 61 60 Share-based payments expense note 31 33 27 2,322 2,173 Number Number 000s 000s The average number of employees, including Directors, during the year were: Full-time 49.1 48.8 Part-time 107.9 103.2 157.0 152.0 Full-time equivalent 105.0 101.9 Details of key management compensation can be found in note 32 and within the Remuneration report on pages 54 to 68.
8 Income tax expense 2013 2012 m m Current tax expense: Current year 177 105 Over provision in prior years 20 28 157 77 Deferred tax expense: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 30 110 Under provision in prior years 19 20 Effect of change in tax rate 32 6 Total deferred tax note 21 17 124 Total income tax expense in income statement 174 201 The effective tax rate of 22.1 per cent 2012: 25.2 per cent is lower than 2012: lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK.
The differences are explained below: 2013 2012 m m Profit before taxation 788 799 Income tax at UK corporation tax rate of 24.08% 2012: 26.07% 190 208 Effects of underlying items: Disallowed depreciation on UK properties 29 30 Over provision in prior years 12 Revaluation of deferred tax balances 21 17 Other 11 1 Effects of non-underlying items: Profit on disposal of properties 5 23 Investment property fair value movements 2 Revaluation of deferred tax balances 11 11 Over under provision in prior years 1 4 Other 2 1 Total income tax expense in income statement 174 201 On 21 March 2012, the Chancellor announced that the main rate of UK corporation tax would reduce to 23.0 per cent from 1 April 2013.
This was substantively enacted on 3 July 2012 and hence the effect of the change on the deferred tax balances has been included in the 2013 figures above.
88 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 F Fi ina nan nc cia ial s l st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements continued 8 Income tax expense continued In addition to this, a number of further changes to the UK corporation tax system were announced in the 5 December 2012 and the 20 March 2013 UK Budget Statements.
The main rate of corporation tax is expected to reduce to 21.0 per cent from 1 April 2014, and to 20.0 per cent from 1 April 2015.
Neither of these expected rate reductions had been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and, therefore, their effect is not included in the financial statements.
The effect of a one per cent reduction in the corporation tax rate on the deferred tax balances at the balance sheet date would reduce the deferred tax liability by 11 million.
As part of the funding plan agreed with the Pension Schemes Trustees, in June 2010 Sainsburys established the Sainsburys Property Scottish Partnership the Partnership with the Scheme and properties with a value of 757 million were transferred to the Partnership.
Included in the Finance Act 2012 were provisions to restrict tax relief on the total amount of payments an employer makes to the pension scheme directly or through the Partnership.
These changes have been reflected in the figures above.
Income tax charged or credited to equity and or other comprehensive income during the year is as follows: Retirement Share-based benefit Fair value payments obligations movements Total m m m m 52 weeks to 16 March 2013 Current tax recognised in equity or other comprehensive income 27 1 28 Deferred tax recognised in equity or other comprehensive income 3 64 2 65 Revaluation of deferred tax balances 12 3 9 Income tax credited 3 79 2 84 52 weeks to 17 March 2012 Current tax recognised in equity or other comprehensive income 58 1 59 Deferred tax recognised in equity or other comprehensive income 1 2 3 Revaluation of deferred tax balances 10 3 13 Income tax charged credited 1 68 2 69 The current and deferred tax in relation to the Groups defined benefit pension schemes actuarial gains and losses and available-for-sale fair value movements have been charged or credited through other comprehensive income.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 89 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 9 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held by the Employee Share Ownership Plan trusts note 25, which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the earnings attributable to the ordinary shareholders are adjusted by the interest on the convertible bonds net of tax.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
These represent share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year and the number of shares that would be issued if all convertible bonds are assumed to be converted.
Underlying earnings per share is provided by excluding the effect of any profit or loss on disposal of properties, investment property fair value movements, impairment of goodwill, financing fair value movements, IAS 19 pension financing element and one-off items that are material and infrequent in nature.
This alternative measure of earnings per share is presented to reflect the Groups underlying trading performance.
All operations are continuing for the periods presented.
2013 2012 million million Weighted average number of shares in issue 1,881.5 1,870.3 Weighted average number of dilutive share options 20.5 13.6 Weighted average number of dilutive convertible bonds 46.0 45.6 Total number of shares for calculating diluted earnings per share 1,948.0 1,929.5 m m Profit for the financial year 614 598 Add interest on convertible bonds, net of tax 11 10 Diluted earnings for calculating diluted earnings per share 625 608 m m Profit for the financial year attributable to owners of the parent 614 598 Less add net of tax : Profit on disposal of properties 55 80 Investment property fair value movements 10 Financing fair value movements 8 13 IAS 19 pension financing charge credit 3 13 One-off items 8 3 Revaluation of deferred tax balances 11 11 Underlying profit after tax 577 526 Add interest on convertible bonds, net of tax 11 10 Diluted underlying profit after tax 588 536 pence pence per share per share Basic earnings 32.6 32.0 Diluted earnings 32.1 31.5 Underlying basic earnings 30.7 28.1 Underlying diluted earnings 30.2 27.8 90 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 F Fi ina nan nc cia ial s l st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Dividend 2013 2012 pence pence 2013 2012 per share per share m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: Final dividend of prior financial year 11.6 10.8 218 201 Interim dividend of current financial year 4.8 4.5 90 84 16.4 15.3 308 285 After the balance sheet date, a final dividend of 11.9 pence per share 2012: 11.6 pence per share was proposed by the Directors in respect of the 52 weeks to 16 March 2013, resulting in a total final proposed dividend of 225 million 2012: 218 million.
The proposed final dividend has not been included as a liability at 16 March 2013.
11 Property, plant and equipment Group Group Company Land and Fixtures and Group Land and buildings equipment Total buildings m m m m Cost At 18 March 2012 8,918 5,340 14,258 19 Additions 635 464 1,099 Acquisition of subsidiaries 21 21 Disposals 140 252 392 Transfer to assets held for resale 12 1 13 At 16 March 2013 9,422 5,551 14,973 19 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 18 March 2012 1,468 3,461 4,929 2 Depreciation expense for the year 149 355 504 Disposals 26 238 264 At 16 March 2013 1,591 3,578 5,169 2 Net book value at 16 March 2013 7,831 1,973 9,804 17 Capital work-in-progress included above 397 165 562 Cost At 20 March 2011 8,460 5,105 13,565 45 Additions 742 523 1,265 2 Disposals 284 288 572 28 At 17 March 2012 8,918 5,340 14,258 19 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 20 March 2011 1,398 3,383 4,781 3 Depreciation expense for the year 137 349 486 Disposals 67 271 338 1 At 17 March 2012 1,468 3,461 4,929 2 Net book value at 17 March 2012 7,450 1,879 9,329 17 Capital work-in-progress included above 364 137 501 During the year, the Group acquired 100% of a property holding company from the BL Sainsbury Superstores Limited joint venture for 21 million.
The business holds only property, plant and equipment and the purchase price represented the fair value of the assets acquired.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment In accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, property, plant and equipment is only tested for impairment in the event that a triggering event is identified.
The Group has determined that for the purposes of impairment testing, following a triggering event, each store is a cash-generating unit CGU.
The recoverable amounts for the CGUs are based on value in use which is calculated on the cash flows expected to be generated by the units using the latest budget and forecast data, the results of which are reviewed by the Board.
The key assumptions in the value in use calculation are the discount rate, growth rates and expected changes in margin.
Changes in income and expenditure are based on past experience and expectations of future changes in the market.
The forecasts are extrapolated beyond five years based on estimated long-term growth rates for the food retail sector.
The discount rate is based on the Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital of ten per cent 2012: ten per cent.
Non-store assets are also tested for impairment in the event that a triggering event is identified.
When an impairment review is required, the carrying value of the asset is compared with its value in use using a methodology consistent with that described above.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 91 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 11 Property, plant and equipment continued Interest capitalised Interest capitalised included in additions amounted to 32 million 2012: 35 million for the Group and nil 2012: nil for the Company.
Accumulated interest capitalised included in the cost of property, plant and equipment net of disposals amounted to 330 million 2012: 302 million for the Group and nil 2012: nil for the Company.
The capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation is 5.3 per cent 2012: 5.7 per cent.
Security Property, plant and equipment of 128 2012: 131 supermarket properties, with a net book value of 2,213 million 2012: 2,288 million has been pledged as security for the long-term financing note 20.
In addition, property, plant and equipment of a further six supermarket properties, with a net book value of 67 million 2012: 68 million has been pledged as security to underpin the residual value guarantee given by the Group with regards to 16 supermarket properties sold in March 2000 and ten supermarket properties sold in July 2000.
On 17 June 2010 property, plant and equipment comprising eight supermarket properties, with a net book value of 167 million, were transferred to the Sainsburys Property Scottish Partnership the Partnership.
On 25 March 2011 a further 13 properties with a net book value of 345 million were transferred to the partnership see note 30.
Analysis of assets held under finance leases 2013 2013 2012 2012 Land and Fixtures and 2013 Land and Fixtures and 2012 buildings equipment Total buildings equipment Total Group m m m m m m Cost 62 15 77 50 15 65 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 26 9 35 24 7 31 Net book value 36 6 42 26 8 34 12 Intangible assets Computer Goodwill software Other Total Group m m m m Cost At 18 March 2012 100 172 48 320 Additions 16 8 24 Disposals 10 10 Acquisition of subsidiaries 1 1 Disposal of subsidiaries 1 1 At 16 March 2013 100 188 46 334 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 18 March 2012 123 37 160 Amortisation expense for the year 8 5 13 Disposals 10 10 At 16 March 2013 131 32 163 Net book value at 16 March 2013 100 57 14 171 Cost At 20 March 2011 100 152 46 298 Additions 19 2 21 Acquisition of subsidiaries 1 1 At 17 March 2012 100 172 48 320 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 20 March 2011 117 30 147 Amortisation expense for the year 6 7 13 At 17 March 2012 123 37 160 Net book value at 17 March 2012 100 49 11 160 92 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 F Fi ina nan nc cia ial s l st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements continued 12 Intangible assets continued Other intangibles are primarily comprised of pharmacy licences.
The goodwill balance above relates primarily to the Groups acquisitions of Bells Stores Ltd, Jacksons Stores Ltd 55 million, JB Beaumont Ltd, SL Shaw Ltd, Culcheth Provision Stores Ltd, Town Centre Retail Bicester Ltd, SW Dewsbury Ltd, Anobii Ltd and Portfolio Investments Ltd and is allocated to the respective cash-generating units CGUs within the Retailing segment.
The CGUs for this purpose are deemed to be the respective acquired retail chains of stores.
The value of the goodwill was tested for impairment during the current financial year by means of comparing the recoverable amount of each CGU with the carrying value of its goodwill.
To calculate the CGUs value in use, Board approved cash flows for the following financial year are assumed to inflate at the long-term average growth rate for the UK food retail sector and are discounted at a pre-tax rate of ten per cent 2012: ten per cent over a 25 year period.
Based on the operating performance of the respective CGUs, no impairment loss was identified in the current financial year 2012: nil.
The valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions would not result in an impairment of the related goodwill.
13 Investments in subsidiaries 2013 2012 m m Shares in subsidiaries Company Beginning of year 7,285 7,309 Additions 33 32 Disposal of subsidiaries 56 Provision for diminution in value of investment 2 1 Release of provision for diminution in value of investment 1 End of year 7,316 7,285 The Companys principal operating subsidiaries, all of which are directly owned by the Company, are: Share of ordinary Country of allotted capital and registration or voting rights incorporation JS Insurance Limited 100% Isle of Man JS Information Systems Limited 100% England Sainsburys Supermarkets Ltd 100% England All principal operating subsidiaries operate in the countries of their registration or incorporation, and have been consolidated up to and as at 16 March 2013.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in s410 of the Companies Act 2006 to disclose a list comprising solely the principal subsidiaries.
A full list of subsidiaries will be sent to Companies House with the next annual return.
During the prior year, a corporate simplification exercise resulted in the liquidation of a number of subsidiary companies of the Group, with a carrying value of 56 million.
During the year, a provision of 2 million was made against investments in subsidiaries where the carrying value exceeded the recoverable amount 2012: 1 million.
The Group has an interest in two partnerships, Sainsburys Property Scottish Partnership and Sainsburys Property Scottish Limited Partnership, which are fully consolidated into these Group accounts.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption conferred by Regulation 7 of the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 and has therefore not appended the accounts of these qualifying partnerships to these accounts.
Separate accounts for these partnerships are not required to be, and have not been, filed at Companies House.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 93 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 14 Investments in joint ventures Group share of postGroup shares acquisition Group Company at cost reserves Total shares at cost m m m m At 18 March 2012 433 133 566 91 Additions 4 4 Disposals 5 5 1 Other adjustments 42 42 Share of retained profit: Underlying profit after tax 38 38 Investment property fair value movements 10 10 Financing fair value movements 3 3 Share of loss on disposal of properties 1 1 Dividends received 18 18 390 139 529 91 Movements in other comprehensive income note 24 3 3 At 16 March 2013 390 142 532 91 At 20 March 2011 433 69 502 91 Share of retained profit: Underlying profit after tax 32 32 Financing fair value movements 5 5 Share of profit on disposal of properties 1 1 28 28 Unrealised loss on disposal of properties 20 20 Realised profit on disposal of properties 12 12 Movements in other comprehensive income note 24 4 4 At 17 March 2012 433 133 566 91 1 The Other adjustment includes the offset of a creditor balance of 43 million due to The Harvest Limited Partnership against the investment held in the joint venture by the Group.
This was agreed with Land Securities Group PLC.
The Groups principal joint ventures were: Share of ordinary Country of registration Year-end allotted capital or incorporation The Harvest Limited Partnership property investment 31 March 50% England BL Sainsbury Superstores Limited property investment 31 March 50% England Sainsburys Bank financial services 31 December 50% England Where relevant, management accounts for the joint ventures have been used to include the results up to 16 March 2013.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of its principal joint ventures are detailed below: 2013 2012 m m Non-current assets 1,418 1,526 Current assets 1,763 1,471 Current liabilities 1,809 1,549 Non-current liabilities 845 887 Net assets 527 561 Income 208 201 Expenses 174 173 Investment property fair value movements 10 Profit after tax 24 28 Investments in joint ventures at 16 March 2013 include 5 million of goodwill 2012: 5 million.
94 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 F Fi ina nan nc cia ial s l st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements continued 15 Available-for-sale financial assets Group Group Company Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Non-current Unlisted equity investments 1 1 Interest bearing financial assets 34 31 34 31 Other financial asset 154 146 189 178 34 31 The other financial asset represents the Groups beneficial interest in a commercial property investment pool.
The fair value of the other financial asset is based on discounted cash flows assuming a property rental growth rate of three per cent 2012: three per cent and a weighted average cost of capital of ten per cent 2012: ten per cent.
There were no disposals or impairment provisions on available-for-sale financial assets in either the current or the previous financial year see note 28 for sensitivity analysis.
16 Inventories 2013 2012 m m Goods held for resale 973 916 Development properties 14 22 987 938 The amount of inventories recognised as an expense and charged to cost of sales for the 52 weeks to 16 March 2013 was 17,602 million 2012: 17,000 million.
17 Trade and other receivables Group Group Company Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Non-current Amounts owed by Group entities 1,229 1,277 Other receivables 38 38 35 35 38 38 1,264 1,312 Current Trade receivables 128 110 Amounts owed by Group entities 1,232 1,076 Other receivables 130 115 20 20 258 225 1,252 1,096 Prepayments and accrued income 48 61 2 3 306 286 1,254 1,099 Non-current other receivables of 38 million 2012: 38 million include 5 million of floating rate subordinated undated loan capital 2012: 5 million and 30 million of floating rate subordinated dated loan capital due from Sainsburys Bank 2012: 30 million note 32.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are on commercial terms.
Current other receivables are generally non-interest bearing, other than the 20 million of floating rate subordinated undated loan capital due from Sainsburys Bank 2012: 20 million note 32.
The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables are denominated in sterling.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 95 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 17 Trade and other receivables continued The Groups exposure to credit risk arising from its retail operations is minimal given that the customer base is large and unrelated and that the overwhelming majority of customer transactions are settled through cash or secure electronic means.
New parties wishing to obtain credit terms with the Group are credit checked prior to invoices being raised and credit limits are determined on an individual basis.
Major counterparties are identified as follows: 2013 2013 2012 2012 Number of Balance Number of Balance counterparties m counterparties m Trade receivables 2 28 2 28 Other receivables 2 27 2 28 Related parties 2 76 2 69 Significant trade receivables identified above relate to amounts receivable from credit card companies and balances due from external suppliers.
At 16 March 2013, two significant other receivables were identified including amounts due from the National Health Service of 16 million and CBRE of 11 million 2012: 16 million and 12 million.
Related party receivables are from the Groups joint ventures, Sainsburys Bank and The Harvest Limited Partnership.
Loans are approved by the Investment Committee and Sainsburys Bank loans are determined by the Financial Services Authoritys capital funding requirements.
No major counterparty balances are considered overdue or impaired.
18 Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets held for sale of 13 million 2012: nil relate to properties held in the Retailing segment.
Sale of these assets is expected to occur in the financial year beginning 17 March 2013.
19 Trade and other payables Group Group Company Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Current Trade payables 1,908 1,903 Amounts owed to Group entities 4,514 4,442 Other payables 534 580 57 52 Accruals and deferred income 284 257 2,726 2,740 4,571 4,494 Non-current Amounts owed to Group entities 876 874 Other payables 3 Accruals and deferred income 170 137 173 137 876 874 The Groups policy on payment of creditors is to agree terms of payment prior to commencing trade with a supplier and to abide by those terms on the timely submission of satisfactory invoices.
Deferred income relates to the accounting for leases with fixed rental increases and lease incentives on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Foreign currency risk The Group has net euro denominated trade payables of 12 million 2012: 12 million and US dollar denominated trade payables of 19 million 2012: 11 million.
96 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 F Fi ina nan nc cia ial s l st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Borrowings 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total Group m m m m m m Secured loans: Loan due 2018 82 957 1,039 41 1,028 1,069 Loan due 2031 21 847 868 14 860 874 Unsecured loans: Bank overdrafts 13 13 Bank loan due 2012 50 50 Bank loan due 2014 25 25 25 25 Bank loans due 2015 23 268 291 23 230 253 Bank loan due 2016 43 43 1 42 43 Bank loans due 2017 111 111 108 108 Bank loan due 2018 4 19 23 Convertible bond due 2014 1 183 184 2 177 179 Other loans due 2015 25 25 23 23 Finance lease obligations 21 139 160 19 124 143 Total borrowings 165 2,617 2,782 150 2,617 2,767 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total Company m m m m m m Bank loan due 2012 50 50 Bank loan due 2014 25 25 25 25 Bank loans due 2015 19 227 246 19 190 209 Bank loan due 2016 43 43 1 42 43 Bank loans due 2017 111 111 108 108 Bank loan due 2018 4 19 23 Convertible bond due 2014 1 183 184 2 177 179 Other loans due 2015 25 25 23 23 Total borrowings 24 633 657 72 565 637 Secured loans Secured loans are secured on 128 2012: 131 supermarket properties note 11 and comprise loans from two finance companies: a fixed rate amortising loan with an outstanding principal value of 1,002 million 2012: 1,036 million at a weighted average rate of 4.98 per cent stepping up to 5.36 per cent from April 2013 with an effective interest rate of 5.39 per cent and carrying amount of 1,039 million 2012: 1,069 million with a final repayment date of April 2018: and an inflation linked amortising loan with an outstanding principal value of 841 million 2012: 843 million at a fixed real rate of 2.36 per cent where principal and interest are uplifted annually by RPI subject to a cap at five per cent and floor at nil per cent with a carrying amount of 868 million 2012: 874 million with a final repayment date of April 2031.
The Group has entered into interest rate swaps to convert 211 million 2012: 211 million of the 1,002 million 2012: 1,036 million loan due 2018 from fixed to floating rates of interest.
These transactions have been accounted for as fair value hedges note 29.
In previous years, 572 million of swaps accounted for as fair value hedges were fide-designated from their fair value hedging relationship.
The fair value adjustment of the debt previously hedged by these swaps will be amortised over the remaining life of the loans, resulting in an amortisation charge to the income statement in the current financial year of 1 million 2012: 1 million.
The Group entered into inflation linked swaps to convert 300 million 2012: 250 million of the 841 million 2012: 843 million loan due 2031 from RPI linked interest to fixed rate interest for the period to April 2017.
These transactions have been accounted for as cash flow hedges note 29.
Bank overdrafts Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and bear interest at a spread above bank base rate.
Bank loan due 2014 A 25 million loan due July 2014 at floating rates of interest.
Bank loans due 2015 A 54 million amortising loan due May 2015 at floating rates of interest: a 20 million loan due March 2015 at floating rates of interest: a 40 million loan due May 2015 at floating rates of interest subject to a cap: a 50 million loan due March 2015 at floating rates of interest swapped into a 45 million floating rate loan: a US$69 million loan due March 2015 at floating rates of interest swapped into a 44 million floating rate loan and a 40 million loan due March 2015 at floating rates of interest swapped into a 34 million floating rate loan.
In June 2012, a 50 million maturing loan at floating interest rate was renewed to June 2015.
The 50 million floating rate loan has been swapped into a fixed rate loan and the loan and swap have been designated as a cash flow hedge.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 97 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Borrowings continued Bank loan due 2016 A 50 million loan due September 2016 at floating rates of interest.
The 50 million loan has been swapped into a 44 million floating rate loan.
Bank loans due 2017 A 45 million loan due February 2017 at floating rates of interest and a US$100 million loan due March 2017 at floating rates of interest.
The US$100 million loan has been swapped into a 63 million fixed rate loan.
The US$100 million loan and associated cross currency swap have been accounted for as a cash flow hedge with fair value movements in future interest payments deferred through the cash flow hedge reserve.
Bank loan due 2018 In June 2012, the Group entered into a new 23 million six year amortising bank loan due 2018 at floating rate of interest.
Convertible bond due 2014 In July 2009, the Group issued 190 million of unsecured convertible bonds due July 2014.
The bonds pay a coupon of 4.25 per cent payable semiannually.
Each bond is convertible into ordinary shares of J Sainsbury plc at any time up to 9 July 2014 at a current conversion price of 413.0 pence.
In previous years the 190 million fixed rate convertible bonds had been swapped into floating rates of interest for the period to July 2012.
These transactions had been accounted for as fair value hedges note 29.
The net proceeds of the convertible bond have been split into a liability component of 166 million and an equity component of 24 million.
The equity component represents the fair value of the embedded option to convert the bond into ordinary shares of the Company.
2013 2012 m m Liability component as at the beginning of the financial year 179 176 Interest expense 14 14 Interest paid 8 8 1 Other 1 3 Liability component as at the end of the financial year 184 179 1 Other relates to fair value movements and fees.
Other loans due 2015 Three non-bank fixed rate loans due March 2015 totalling 28 million swapped into a 23 million floating rate loan.
Borrowing facilities The Group maintains a 690 million syndicated revolving credit facility maturing in October 2015 for standby liquidity purposes.
At 16 March 2013, no advance had been made under the borrowing facility 2012: nil and all conditions precedent had been met as at that date.
The facility incurs commitment fees at market rates and the interest rate on draw downs would be at floating rates.
Obligations under finance leases Present Present value of value of Minimum Minimum minimum minimum lease lease lease lease payments payments payments payments 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Amounts payable under finance leases: Within 1 year 27 20 21 19 Within 2 to 5 years inclusive 94 82 75 71 After 5 years 201 177 64 53 322 279 160 143 Less: future finance charges 162 136 Present value of lease obligations 160 143 Disclosed as: Current 21 19 Non-current 139 124 160 143 Finance leases have effective interest rates ranging from 2.4 per cent to 9.0 per cent 2012: 3.8 per cent to 9.0 per cent.
The average remaining lease term is 69 years 2012: 72 years.
98 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 F Fi ina nan nc cia ial s l st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Deferred taxation The movements in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the financial year, prior to the offsetting of the balances within the same tax jurisdiction, are shown below: Accelerated Retirement capital Capital Fair value Other benefit Share-based allowances losses movements Other property obligations payment Total Group m m m m m m m m At 18 March 2012 193 57 37 40 101 16 12 286 Charge credit to income statement 39 4 7 7 3 5 49 Charge credit to equity or other comprehensive income 2 64 3 65 Rate change adjustment to income statement 18 4 4 8 7 1 32 Rate change adjustment to equity 3 12 9 At 16 March 2013 214 49 36 43 100 78 19 247 At 20 March 2011 185 53 38 29 89 99 17 172 Charge credit to income statement 23 9 14 20 79 3 130 Charge to equity or other comprehensive income 2 1 3 Rate change adjustment to income statement 15 5 3 8 14 1 6 Rate change adjustment to equity 3 10 13 At 17 March 2012 193 57 37 40 101 16 12 286 2013 2012 Group m m Total deferred income tax liabilities 393 371 Total deferred income tax assets 146 85 Net deferred income tax liabilities 247 286 Capital Fair value Other losses losses property Total Company m m m m At 18 March 2012 32 1 32 1 Rate change adjustment to income statement 3 3 At 16 March 2013 29 1 29 1 At 20 March 2011 34 1 34 1 Rate change adjustment to income statement 2 2 At 17 March 2012 32 1 32 1 2013 2012 Company m m Total deferred income tax liabilities 29 32 Total deferred income tax assets 30 33 Net deferred income tax assets 1 1 Deferred income tax assets have been recognised in respect of all income tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred income tax assets because it is probable that these assets will be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and the deferred income tax assets and the deferred income tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 99 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Provisions Group Group Group Company Company onerous disposal long service Other Group onerous disposal Company leases provisions awards provisions total leases provision total m m m m m m m m At 18 March 2012 48 17 7 72 2 17 19 Additional provisions 4 4 8 Unused amounts reversed 8 16 24 16 16 Utilisation of provision 8 8 Amortisation of discount 2 2 At 16 March 2013 38 1 7 4 50 2 1 3 At 20 March 2011 49 17 7 73 3 17 20 Additional provisions 11 11 Unused amounts reversed 7 7 Utilisation of provision 7 7 1 1 Amortisation of discount 2 2 At 17 March 2012 48 17 7 72 2 17 19 Group Group Company Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Disclosed as: Current 11 9 1 1 Non-current 39 63 2 18 50 72 3 19 The onerous lease provision covers residual lease commitments of up to an average of 26 years 2012: 26 years, after allowance for existing or anticipated sublet rental income.
The disposal provision has been released during the year as any potential liability arising is no longer considered probable note 36.
Long service awards are accrued over the period the service is provided by the employee.
23 Called up share capital and share premium account 2013 2012 2013 2012 Group and Company million million m m Called up share capital Allotted and fully paid ordinary shares 1,893 1,883 541 538 Share premium account Share premium 1,075 1,061 The movements in the called up share capital and share premium accounts are set out below: Share Ordinary Ordinary premium shares shares account million m m At 18 March 2012 1,883 538 1,061 Allotted in respect of share option schemes 10 3 14 At 16 March 2013 1,893 541 1,075 At 20 March 2011 1,871 535 1,048 Allotted in respect of share option schemes 12 3 13 At 17 March 2012 1,883 538 1,061 100 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 F Fi ina nan nc cia ial s l st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Capital redemption and other reserves Capital Currency AvailableCash flow Convertible Total redemption translation Actuarial for-sale hedge bond other reserve reserve losses assets reserve reserve reserves Group m m m m m m m At 18 March 2012 680 1 476 107 7 12 365 Currency translation differences 1 1 Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension scheme net of tax 287 287 Available-for-sale financial assets fair value movements net of tax : Group 13 13 Joint ventures note 14 2 2 Cash flow hedges effective portion of fair value movements net of tax : Group 17 17 Joint ventures note 14 1 1 Amortisation of convertible bond equity component 5 5 At 16 March 2013 680 763 122 11 7 623 At 20 March 2011 680 1 322 102 9 17 213 Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension scheme net of tax 154 154 Available-for-sale financial assets fair value movements net of tax : Group 3 3 Joint ventures note 14 2 2 Cash flow hedges effective portion of fair value movements net of tax : Joint ventures note 14 2 2 Amortisation of convertible bond equity component 5 5 At 17 March 2012 680 1 476 107 7 12 365 Capital AvailableConvertible Cash flow Total redemption for-sale bond hedge other reserve assets reserve reserve reserves Company m m m m m At 18 March 2012 680 2 12 14 Available-for-sale financial assets fair value movements net of tax 4 4 Cash flow hedges effective portion of changes in fair value 2 2 Amortisation of convertible bond equity 5 5 At 16 March 2013 680 6 7 2 11 At 20 March 2011 680 6 17 23 Available-for-sale financial assets fair value movements net of tax 4 4 Amortisation of convertible bond equity 5 5 At 17 March 2012 680 2 12 14 The capital redemption reserve arose on the redemption of B shares.
Shareholders approved a 680 million return of share capital, by way of a B share scheme, at the Companys Extraordinary General Meeting on 12 July 2004.
The final redemption date for B Shares was 18 July 2007 and all transactions relating to the B shares have now been completed.
Currency translation reserve represents the cumulative foreign exchange differences on the translation of the net assets of the Groups foreign operations from their functional currency to the presentation currency of the parent.
The actuarial gains and losses reserve represents the actuarial gains and losses on the defined benefit pension scheme operated by the Group.
The available-for-sale assets reserve represents the fair value gains and losses on the available-for-sale financial assets held by the Group.
The cash flow hedge reserve represents the cumulative effective fair value gains and losses on cash flow hedges in the Group.
The convertible bond reserve represents the equity component of the 190 million convertible bond issued in July 2009.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 101 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 25 Retained earnings Group Group Company Group Profit and Total retained Retained Own shares loss account earnings earnings m m m m At 18 March 2012 22 3,737 3,715 1,940 Profit for the year 614 614 284 Dividends paid 308 308 308 Share-based payment net of tax 36 36 Shares vested 1 1 Allotted in respect of share option schemes 3 3 32 Utilised in respect of share option schemes 1 Amortisation of convertible bond equity 5 5 5 At 16 March 2013 21 4,081 4,060 1,952 At 20 March 2011 22 3,396 3,374 1,935 Profit for the year 598 598 260 Dividends paid 285 285 285 Share-based payment net of tax 26 26 Allotted in respect of share option schemes 3 3 27 Utilised in respect of share option schemes 2 Amortisation of convertible bond equity 5 5 5 At 17 March 2012 22 3,737 3,715 1,940 Own shares held by Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP trusts 4 The Group owned 5,273,310 2012: 5,893,732 of its ordinary shares of 28 7 pence nominal value each.
At 16 March 2013, the total nominal value of the own shares was 2 million 2012: 2 million.
All shares 2012: all shares are held by an ESOP trust for the Executive Share Plans.
The ESOP trusts waive the rights to the dividends receivable in respect of the shareholder under the above schemes.
The cost of the own shares is deducted from equity in the Group financial statements.
The market value of the own shares at 16 March 2013 was 19 million 2012: 18 million.
102 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 F Fi ina nan nc cia ial s l st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements continued 26 Notes to the cash flow statements a Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from operations Group Group Company Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Profit before tax 788 799 290 246 Net finance costs 123 103 27 12 Share of post-tax profits of joints ventures note 14 24 28 Dividend income from subsidiaries 250 276 Operating profit 887 874 13 42 Adjustments for: Depreciation expense 504 486 Amortisation expense 13 13 Profit on disposal of properties 67 82 3 Foreign exchange differences 6 Share-based payments expense 33 27 1 Retirement benefit obligations 76 74 Liquidation of subsidiaries 45 Provision for diminution in value of investment 2 Operating cash flows before changes in working capital 1,294 1,238 15 Changes in working capital: Increase in inventories 57 126 Increase in trade and other receivables 34 46 99 Increase in trade and other payables 87 182 22 31 Decrease in provisions 22 3 16 Cash generated from used in operations 1,268 1,291 25 68 1 The adjustment for retirement benefit obligations reflects the difference between the service charge of 61 million 2012: 60 million for the defined benefit scheme and the cash contributions of 137 million made by the Group to the defined benefit scheme 2012: 134 million.
b Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash flow statements, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following: Group Group Company Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Cash in hand and at bank 115 228 1 Money market funds and deposits 402 511 350 408 Bank overdrafts note 20 13 Net cash and cash equivalents 504 739 351 408 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 103 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 27 Analysis of net debt 2013 2012 m m Non-current assets Interest bearing available-for-sale financial assets 34 31 Derivative financial instruments 47 37 81 68 Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 517 739 Derivative financial instruments 91 69 608 808 Current liabilities Bank overdrafts 13 Borrowings 131 131 Finance leases 21 19 Derivative financial instruments 65 88 230 238 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 2,478 2,493 Finance leases 139 124 Derivative financial instruments 4 1 2,621 2,618 Total net debt 2,162 1,980 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 2013 2012 m m Net debt at beginning of the year 1,980 1,814 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 235 239 Decrease in interest bearing financial asset 40 1 Net decrease increase in borrowings 27 262 1 Net increase in derivatives 26 Net increase of obligations under finance leases 17 84 Fair value movements 17 17 Other non-cash movements 2 Net debt at the end of the year 2,162 1,980 1 Excluding fair value movements.
28 Financial risk management The principal financial risks faced by the Group are liquidity, counterparty credit, foreign currency, interest rate, commodity and capital risks.
Funding and financial risk management are managed by a central treasury department in accordance with policies and guidelines approved by the Board of Directors.
The risk management policies are designed to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance by identifying financial exposures and setting appropriate risk limits and controls.
The Finance Committee of the Board of Directors has delegated responsibility for approving specific financial transactions.
The Treasury Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, regularly reviews risk positions and monitors Treasury performance.
The Group Audit Committee oversees compliance with risk management policies and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
The Group Audit Committee is assisted by Group Internal Audit who periodically review the Groups risk management controls and procedures.
The Group uses forward contracts and options to hedge foreign exchange and commodity exposures, and interest rate swap contracts to hedge interest rate exposures.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups treasury policy which prohibits the use of derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Treasury operations in respect of Sainsburys Bank are managed separately through Lloyds Banking Group, the Groups joint venture partner.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group could be unable to meet its financial obligations as they fall due at a reasonable price.
The Groups operational cash flow is largely stable and predictable, reflecting the low business risk profile of the food retail sector.
Cash flow forecasts are produced regularly to assist management in identifying future liquidity requirements.
The Groups liquidity policy targets a minimum funding headroom of 300 million in excess of forecast net debt over a rolling 12-month time horizon.
The Group manages its liquidity risk by maintaining a core of long-dated borrowings, pre-funding future cash flow commitments and holding adequate standby liquidity.
104 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 F Fi ina nan nc cia ial s l st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Financial risk management continued The Groups core funding comprise two long-term loans of 1,002 million due 2018 and 841 million due 2031 both secured on property assets.
In addition the Group has unsecured bank loans totalling 487 million with maturities ranging from 2014 to 2018, unsecured non-bank loans totalling 23 million maturing 2015, and a capital market convertible bond totalling 190 million maturing July 2014.
The Group has also financed 96 million through multiple hire purchase facilities in respect of movable in-store assets for various periods to 2019.
Short term and seasonal funding is sourced from the wholesale inter-bank money market where interest is charged at various spreads above LIBOR.
The Group maintains a 690 million syndicated revolving credit facility due October 2015 for liquidity standby purposes.
Interest on drawings under this facility is charged at a margin over LIBOR.
There were nil drawings under the facility as at 16 March 2013 2012: nil drawings.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period to the contractual maturity date as at the balance sheet date.
The amounts disclosed in the tables are the contractual undiscounted cash flows or an estimate of cash flows in respect of floating interest rate liabilities.
Less than One to Two to More than one year two years five years five years Group m m m m At 16 March 2013 Secured loans Secured loan due 2018 124 127 401 575 1 Secured loan due 2031 61 63 202 1,101 Unsecured loans Notional overdraft 13 2 Bank loan due 2014 25 2,3 Bank loans due 2015 29 128 157 2,3 Bank loan due 2016 1 1 45 2,3 Bank loans due 2017 3 3 117 2 Bank loan due 2018 4 4 12 4 Convertible bond due 2014 8 194 3 Other loans due 2015 1 26 Obligations under finance leases 27 25 69 201 Trade and other payables 2,702 At 17 March 2012 Secured loans Secured loan due 2018 85 121 384 724 1 Secured loan due 2031 59 61 195 1,164 Unsecured loans 2 Bank loan due 2012 51 2 Bank loan due 2014 1 1 25 2,3 Bank loans due 2015 28 28 226 2,3 Bank loan due 2016 1 1 43 2,3 Bank loans due 2017 3 3 117 Convertible bond due 2014 8 8 194 3 Other loans due 2015 1 1 24 Obligations under finance leases 20 20 62 177 Trade and other payables 2,719 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 105 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Financial risk management continued Less than One to Two to More than one year two years five years five years Company m m m m At 16 March 2013 2 Bank loan due 2014 25 2,3 Bank loan due 2015 23 123 112 2,3 Bank loan due 2016 1 1 45 2,3 Bank loans due 2017 3 3 117 2 Bank loan due 2018 4 4 12 4 Convertible bond due 2014 8 194 3 Other loans due 2015 1 26 2 Amounts due to Group entities 4,634 112 316 584 Other payables 57 At 17 March 2012 2 Bank loan due 2012 51 2 Bank loan due 2014 1 1 25 2,3 Bank loans due 2015 23 23 179 2,3 Bank loan due 2016 1 1 43 2,3 Bank loans due 2017 3 3 117 Convertible bond due 2014 8 8 194 3 Other loans due 2015 1 1 24 2 Amounts due to Group entities 3,907 45 293 718 Other payables 52 Assumptions: 1 Cash flows relating to debt linked to inflation rates have been calculated using a RPI of 3.9 per cent for the year ended 16 March 2013 and 3.3 per cent for future years 2012: RPI of 5.0 per cent for the year ended 17 March 2012, 3.9 per cent for the years ended 2013 and 2014 and 3.3 per cent for future years.
2 Cash flows relating to debt bearing a floating interest rate have been calculated using prevailing interest rates at 16 March 2013 and 17 March 2012.
3 Cash flows in foreign currencies have been translated using spot rates at 16 March 2013 and 17 March 2012.
The table below analyses the Groups net settled derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the period remaining to the contractual maturity date as at the balance sheet date.
The amounts disclosed in the tables are the net contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Less than One to Two to More than one year two years five years five years m m m m At 16 March 2013 Commodity contracts: Inflow 1 Interest rate swaps in a hedging relationship: 1,2 Inflow 10 11 27 1 Other interest rate swaps: Inflow 1 1 3 At 17 March 2012 Commodity contracts: Inflow 2 1 Interest rate swaps in a hedging relationship: 1,2 Inflow 9 7 19 8 Other interest rate swaps: Inflow outflow 4 4 13 20 Assumptions: 1 The swap rate which matches the remaining term of the interest rate swap at 16 March 2013 has been used to calculate the floating rate cash flows over the life of the interest rate swaps shown above 2012: 17 March 2012.
2 Cash flows relating to inflation rate swaps have been calculated using an RPI of 3.9 per cent for the year ended 16 March 2013 and 3.3 per cent for future years 2012: RPI of 5.0 per cent for the year ended 17 March 2012, 3.9 per cent for the years ended 2013 and 2014 and 3.3 per cent for future years.
106 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 F Fi ina nan nc cia ial s l st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Financial risk management continued The table below analyses the Groups gross settled derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the period remaining to the contractual maturity date as at the balance sheet date.
The amounts disclosed in the tables are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Less than One to Two to More than one year two years five years five years m m m m At 16 March 2013 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges: Outflow 374 56 3 Inflow 388 57 3 Commodity contracts: Outflow 6 6 18 29 Inflow 6 6 20 32 Cross currency swaps: Outflow 9 110 161 Inflow 7 112 160 At 17 March 2012 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges: Outflow 356 28 1 Inflow 354 28 1 Commodity contracts: Outflow 3 3 10 11 Inflow 3 3 11 13 Cross currency swaps: Outflow 10 10 273 Inflow 9 9 265 The Group holds foreign exchange forward contracts, in respect of which the inflow figures in the table above have been calculated by translating the foreign currency forward commitments at spot exchange rates prevailing at the reporting dates.
Counterparty credit risk The Group is exposed to counterparty default or non-performance risk on its holdings of cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial assets, deposits with banks, investments in marketable securities and trade and other receivables.
The Groups credit policy limits new investments to counter parties with minimum credit ratings of A1 from Standard & Poors or P1 from Moodys Investors Service or, in the case of sterling liquidity funds, AAAm from Standard & Poors or Aaa MR1 from Moodys Investors Service.
The Group deposits surplus funds directly with approved banks on the wholesale inter-bank money market or with approved money market funds as a pooled investment.
The table below analyses the Groups cash and cash equivalents by credit exposure excluding bank balances, store cash and cash in transit: Short-term 2013 2012 Counterparty rating m m Financial institutions Money Market Funds AAAm Aaa 322 509 Financial institutions Money Market Deposits A1 P1 20 Financial institutions Money Market Deposits A1 P1 60 2 Management does not expect any losses from non-performance of deposit counterparties.
Interest rate swaps, foreign exchange options, forward contracts and commodity contracts for difference are used by the Group to hedge interest rate, foreign currency and fuel exposures.
The table below analyses the fair value of the Groups derivative financial assets by credit exposure, excluding any collateral held.
Short-term 2013 2012 Counterparty rating m m 1 Interest rate swaps A1 P1 76 64 1 Interest rate swaps A2 P1 34 1 Interest rate swaps A2 P2 36 FX forward contracts A1 P1 3 FX forward contracts A1 P1 15 1 FX forward contracts A1 P2 1 Commodity contracts A1 P1 2 Commodity contracts A1 P1 1 1 Collateral held 47 million 2012: 43 million.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 107 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Financial risk management continued Market risk a Currency risk The Group is exposed to currency risk on supplier contracts denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling and on recognised foreign currency assets and liabilities.
The Groups currency risk policy limits the impact of movements in exchange rates on Group income by requiring anticipated foreign currency cash flows, primarily supplier contracts in US dollars and euros, to be hedged.
The future cash flow which may be either contracted or un-contracted, are hedged on a layered basis from 20 per cent and building up to 80 per cent using forward contracts and options.
The Group also has exposure to currency risk on balances held on foreign currency denominated bank accounts, which may arise due to short-term timing differences on maturing hedges and underlying supplier payments.
The Group considers that a ten per cent movement in exchange rates against sterling is a reasonable measure of volatility.
The impact of a ten per cent movement in the exchange rate of US dollar and euro versus sterling at the balance sheet date, with all other variables held constant, is summarised in the table below: 2013 2012 Change in Change in Change in exchange Change in exchange exchange rate impact exchange rate impact rate impact on cash flow rate impact on cash flow on post-tax hedge reserve on post-tax hedge reserve profit 10% 10% profit 10% 10% m m m m USD GBP 1 1 28 34 1 1 26 32 EUR GBP 13 15 1 1 8 10 b Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its borrowing and deposit portfolios.
The Groups interest rate policy seeks to control the Groups interest cost and interest expense volatility by maintaining an appropriate and diversified mix of fixed rate, floating rate and inflation-linked liabilities.
Financial instruments where interest is re-priced at intervals of one year or less are classified as floating rate.
Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until maturity of the instrument.
i Fair value sensitivity for fixed rate instruments The Group holds 1,303 million of fixed rate debt 2012: 1,345 million, of which 234 million 2012: 424 million has been swapped into floating rate debt using interest rate swaps.
The remaining 1,069 million 2012: 867 million portion of fixed rate debt is recorded at amortised cost and a change in interest rates at the reporting date would not affect the income statement.
For the year to 16 March 2013, the fair value movement in the interest rate swaps resulted in a charge to the income statement of 3 million 2012: 8 million credit.
The fair value movement in the underlying fixed rate debt resulted in a credit to the income statement of 3 million 2012: 10 million charge.
ii Cash flow sensitivity for variable rate instruments The Group holds 549 million of floating rate borrowings 2012: 526 million of which 113 million 2012: 63 million has been swapped into fixed rate debt.
The Group also holds 295 million of floating rate swaps 2012: 485 million and holds 436 million of interest bearing assets 2012: 542 million.
The Group considers that a 100 basis point increase is a reasonable measure of volatility.
The sensitivity of these balances to a change of 100 basis points or such lesser amount as would result in a zero rate of interest in the floating rate at the balance sheet date is shown below: 2013 2012 Change in Change in Change in Change in floating rate floating rate floating rate floating rate impact on impact on impact on impact on post-tax cash flow post-tax cash flow profit 100 hedge reserve profit 100 hedge reserve bps 100 bps bps 100 bps m m m m Floating rate borrowings 5 4 4 2 14 16 3 2 Interest bearing assets 3 2 4 2 108 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 F Fi ina nan nc cia ial s l st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Financial risk management continued b Interest rate risk continued iii Cash flow sensitivity for inflation-linked variable instruments The Group holds 854 million of inflation-linked debt 2012: 843 million of which 300 million 2012: 250 million has been swapped into fixed rate debt using inflation rate swaps due April 2017.
The Group considers that a 100 basis point increase or decrease in the RPI rate is a reasonable measure of volatility.
The sensitivity of these balances to a change of 100 basis points in the RPI rate at the balance sheet date is shown below: 2013 2012 Change in RPI Change in RPI Change in RPI Change in RPI rate impact rate impact rate impact rate impact on post-tax on cash flow on post-tax on cash flow profit 100 hedge reserve profit 100 hedge reserve bps 100 bps bps 100 bps m m m m Inflation-linked debt 5 5 12 12 6 12 12 iv Fair value sensitivity for available-for-sale assets Included within available-for-sale financial assets is 154 million 2012: 146 million relating to the Groups beneficial interest in a property investment pool.
The net present value of the Groups interest in the various freehold reversions owned by the property investment pool has been derived by assuming a property growth rate of three per cent per annum 2012: three per cent and a discount rate of ten per cent 2012: ten per cent, see note 15.
The sensitivity of this balance to changes of 0.5 per cent in the assumed rate of property rental growth and one per cent in the discount rate holding other assumptions constant is shown below: 2013 2012 Change in Change in Change in Change in growth rate discount rate growth rate growth rate 0.5% 1.0% 0.5% 0.5% m m m m Available-for-sale assets 9 10 14 15 10 10 14 16 Commodity risk The Group is exposed to commodity price risk within its commercial buying operations and also with its own use consumption of electricity, gas and fuel.
The Groups Energy Price Risk Committee limits the impact of movements in commodity prices on Group income by requiring forecast purchases of power and fuel to be hedged.
The Group uses financial derivatives to hedge fuel exposures on a layered basis using contracts for difference.
The Group considers a ten per cent movement in commodity rates a reasonable measure of volatility.
A ten per cent 2012: ten per cent change in the fair value of the commodity price at the balance sheet date would have increased or decreased the cash flow equity reserve by 4 million 2012: 4 million.
The Group hedges own consumption electricity and gas exposures with forward purchases under flexible purchasing arrangements with its suppliers.
The Group has also entered into several long term fixed price power purchase agreements with independent producers.
Included within derivative financial assets is 4 million 2012: 3 million relating to these agreements.
The Group values its power purchase agreements as the net present value of the estimated future usage at the contracted fixed price less the market implied forward energy price discounted back at the prevailing swap rate.
The Group also makes an assumption regarding expected energy output based on the historical performance and the producers estimate of expected electricity output.
The sensitivity of this balance to changes of 20 per cent in the assumed rate of energy output and 10 per cent in the implied forward energy prices holding other assumptions constant is shown below: 2013 2012 Change in Change in Change in electricity Change in electricity volume forward price volume forward price 20.0% 10.0% 20.0% 10.0% m m m m Derivative financial instruments 1 1 5 5 1 1 3 3 Capital risk management The Group defines the capital that it manages as total equity plus net debt.
The Boards objective is to maintain a strong and efficient capital base to support the Groups strategic objectives, provide optimal returns for shareholders and safeguard the Groups ability to remain a going concern.
There has been no change to capital risk management policies during the year.
The Board monitors a range of financial metrics including return on capital employed, balance sheet gearing and fixed charge cover.
The Group can manage its capital structure by diversifying its debt portfolio, adjusting the size and timing of dividends paid to shareholders, recycling capital through sale and leaseback transactions, issuing new shares or repurchasing shares in the open market and flexing capital expenditure.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 109 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Financial risk management continued From time to time the Company purchases its own shares in the market for the purpose of issuing shares under the Groups share option programmes.
The Group does not have a defined share buy-back plan.
The Board has a policy to maintain the underlying earnings cover for the ordinary dividend at a minimum of 1.5 times and to increase dividend cover to two times over the medium term.
Part of the Groups capital risk management is to ensure compliance with the general covenants and financial covenants included in the Groups borrowing facilities.
There have been no breaches of these covenants in the financial year ended 16 March 2013.
29 Financial instruments Group Group Company Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Derivative assets Non-current Interest rate swaps fair value hedge 36 33 36 33 Interest rate swaps cash flow hedge 2 2 Interest rate swaps fair value through profit or loss 3 3 Commodity and foreign exchange forward contract cash flow hedge 2 1 Commodity forward contract fair value through profit or loss 4 3 47 37 41 33 Current Interest rate swaps fair value through profit or loss 72 65 72 65 Commodity and foreign exchange forward contract cash flow hedge 19 4 91 69 72 65 Derivative liabilities Current Interest rate swaps fair value through profit or loss 65 84 65 84 Foreign exchange forward contract cash flow hedge 4 65 88 65 84 Non-current Interest rate swaps fair value hedge 1 1 Interest rate swaps cash flow hedge 1 1 Interest rate swaps fair value through profit or loss 3 3 4 1 4 1 Interest rate swaps fair value hedge The Group holds a portfolio of 234 million of interest rate swaps 2012: 424 million to hedge a portion of the 1,002 million fixed rate secured loan due in 2018 and other loans due 2015.
Under the terms of the swaps, the Group receives fixed interest and pays floating rate interest at a fixed spread above three-month LIBOR.
The notional principal amount of one of the interest rate swaps amortises from 211 million to 111 million from April 2016 to April 2018.
Interest rate swaps cash flow hedge The Group holds a portfolio of 300 million of inflation-linked swaps 2012: 250 million due 2017 to hedge a portion of the 854 million inflationlinked secured loan due 2031.
Under the terms of the swaps, the Group receives floating RPI interest subject to a cap at five per cent and floor at nil per cent and pays fixed rate interest.
The Group also holds a portfolio of 113 million of floating to fixed interest rate swaps 2012: 63 million to hedge a 50 million bank loan due 2015 and a US$100 million bank loan due 2017.
At 16 March 2013, an unrealised gain of 1 million 2012: nil is included in other comprehensive income in respect of the interest rate swaps in cash flow hedges.
This gain will be transferred to the income statement over the next four years.
Interest rate swaps fair value through profit and loss At 16 March 2013, the Group held a portfolio of interest rate swaps at fair value through profit or loss which convert 331 million of the Groups floating rate obligations into fixed rates 2012: 331 million.
Under the terms of these swaps the Group pays fixed rates of interest and receives three-month LIBOR for periods to 19 April 2018.
During the year, a 150 million swap under which the counterparty had a recurring option to cancel the swap through to January 2031, was restructured at market value into an amortising non-cancellable swap due 19 April 2018.
The Group holds a portfolio of non-designated interest rate swaps which convert 391 million of fixed rate borrowings into floating rates 2012: 391 million.
Under the terms of the swaps the Group receives fixed rates of interest and pays floating rates of interest at various spreads above threemonth LIBOR until 19 April 2018.
Foreign exchange forward contracts cash flow hedges At 16 March 2013, the Group held a portfolio of foreign exchange forward contracts with a fair value gain of 19 million 2012: 3 million to hedge its future foreign currency denominated trade purchases.
The Group had forward purchased 167 million 2012: 103 million and sold sterling at rates ranging from 1.15 to 1.27 2012: 1.14 to 1.21 with maturities from March 2013 to December 2015 2012: March 2012 to April 2013 and forward purchased US$469 million 2012: US$457 million and sold sterling at rates ranging from 1.48 to 1.62 2012: 1.52 to 1.67 with maturities from March 2013 to April 2015 2012: March 2012 to April 2015.
110 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 F Fi ina nan nc cia ial s l st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements continued 29 Financial instruments continued At 16 March 2013, an unrealised gain of 17 million 2012: loss of 3 million is included in other comprehensive income in respect of the forward contracts.
This gain will be transferred to the income statement over the next 33 months.
During the year a credit to the income statement of 3 million was transferred from the cash flow hedge equity reserve and included in cost of sales 2012: debit of 3 million.
Commodity contracts cash flow hedges At 16 March 2013, the Group held a portfolio of commodity forward contracts with a fair value gain of 1 million 2012: gain of 3 million to hedge its future own use fuel consumption over the next 12 months.
At 16 March 2013, an unrealised gain of 1 million 2012: gain of 3 million is included in other comprehensive income in respect of these contracts.
This gain will be transferred to the income statement over the next 12 months.
Commodity forward contract fair value through profit or loss Commodity forward contracts at fair value through profit and loss relates to the Groups long-term fixed price power purchase agreements with independent producers see note 28.
Fair value Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements other than at fair value.
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities are based on prices that are available from the market on which the instruments are traded where available.
The fair values of all other financial assets and liabilities have been calculated by discounting expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
The fair values of short-term deposits, trade receivables, overdrafts and payables are assumed to approximate to their book values, and are excluded from the analysis below: Group Company Carrying Group Carrying Company amount Fair value amount Fair value m m m m 2013 Financial assets Amounts due from Group entities 1,229 1,975 Other receivables 58 46 55 43 Financial liabilities Amounts due to Group entities 876 1,043 1 Loans due 2018 1,039 1,186 Loans due 2031 868 1,109 Bank overdrafts 13 Bank loans due 2014 25 25 25 25 Bank loans due 2015 291 303 246 249 Bank loan due 2016 43 43 43 43 Bank loans due 2017 111 111 111 111 Bank loan due 2018 23 23 23 23 2 Convertible bond due 2014 184 209 184 209 3 Other loans due 2015 25 25 25 25 Obligations under finance leases 160 160 2012 Financial assets Amounts due from Group entities 1,277 1,494 Other receivables 58 58 55 55 Financial liabilities Amounts due to Group entities 874 973 1 Loans due 2018 1,069 1,201 Loans due 2031 874 1,068 Bank overdrafts Bank loan due 2012 50 50 50 50 Bank loans due 2014 25 25 25 25 Bank loans due 2015 253 261 209 210 Bank loan due 2016 43 43 43 43 Bank loans due 2017 108 108 108 108 2 Convertible bond due 2014 179 214 179 214 3 Other loans due 2015 23 23 23 23 Obligations under finance leases 143 143 1 Includes 211 million accounted for as a fair value hedge 2012: 211 million.
2 Includes nil accounted for as a fair value hedge 2012: 190 million.
3 Includes 23 million accounted for as a fair value hedge 2012: 23 million.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 111 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 29 Financial instruments continued Fair value measurements recognised in the balance sheet The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are recognised at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 fair value measurements are derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value measurements are derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value measurements are derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Group m m m m 2013 Available-for-sale financial assets Interest bearing financial assets 34 34 Other financial assets 154 154 Financial assets at FVTPL Derivative financial assets 134 4 138 Financial liabilities at FVTPL Derivative financial liabilities 69 69 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Group m m m m 2012 Available-for-sale financial assets Interest bearing financial assets 31 31 Other financial assets 146 146 Financial assets at FVTPL Derivative financial assets 103 3 106 Financial liabilities at FVTPL Derivative financial liabilities 89 89 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Company m m m m 2013 Available-for-sale financial assets Interest bearing financial assets 34 34 Financial assets at FVTPL Derivative financial assets 113 113 Financial liabilities at FVTPL Derivative financial liabilities 69 69 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Company m m m m 2012 Available-for-sale financial assets Interest bearing financial assets 31 31 Financial assets at FVTPL Derivative financial assets 98 98 Financial liabilities at FVTPL Derivative financial liabilities 85 85 There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year.
112 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 F Fi ina nan nc cia ial s l st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements continued 29 Financial instruments continued Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements of financial assets: 2013 2012 m m Opening balance 149 140 Transfer to Level 3 3 In finance cost in the Group income statement 1 In other comprehensive income 8 6 Closing balance 158 149 Financial assets and liabilities by category Set out below are the accounting classification of each class of financial assets and liabilities as at 16 March 2013 and 17 March 2012.
Fair value Derivatives Loans and Availablethrough profit used for Other financial receivables for-sale or loss hedging liabilities Total Group m m m m m m 2013 Cash and cash equivalents 517 517 Trade and other receivables 296 296 Available-for-sale financial assets 189 189 Trade and other payables 2,702 2,702 Current borrowings 165 165 Non-current borrowings 2,617 2,617 Derivative financial instruments 11 58 69 813 189 11 58 5,484 4,413 2012 Cash and cash equivalents 739 739 Trade and other receivables 263 263 Available-for-sale financial assets 178 178 Trade and other payables 2,719 2,719 Current borrowings 150 150 Non-current borrowings 2,617 2,617 Derivative financial instruments 16 33 17 1,002 178 16 33 5,486 4,289 Fair value Derivatives Other Loans and Availablethrough profit used for financial receivables for-sale or loss hedging liabilities Total Company m m m m m m 2013 Cash and cash equivalents 351 351 Trade and other receivables 2,516 2,516 Available-for-sale financial assets 34 34 Trade and other payables 5,447 5,447 Current borrowings 24 24 Non-current borrowings 633 633 Derivative financial instruments 7 37 44 2,867 34 7 37 6,104 3,159 2012 Cash and cash equivalents 408 408 Trade and other receivables 2,408 2,408 Available-for-sale financial assets 31 31 Trade and other payables 5,368 5,368 Current borrowings 72 72 Non-current borrowings 565 565 Derivative financial instruments 19 32 13 2,816 31 19 32 6,005 3,145 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 113 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 30 Retirement benefit obligations Retirement benefit obligations relate to a defined benefit scheme, the Sainsburys Pension Scheme the Scheme and an unfunded pension liability relating to senior employees.
The Scheme was closed to new employees on 31 January 2002.
The assets of this scheme are held separately from the Groups assets.
The Scheme was subject to a triennial actuarial valuation carried out by Towers Watson, the schemes independent actuaries, at March 2012 on the projected unit basis.
The results of this valuation are expected to be finalised in June 2013.
The retirement benefit obligations at 16 March 2013 have been based, where appropriate, on the most recent actuarial valuation and updated by KPMG as actuarial advisors to the Group to take account of the requirements of IAS 19.
The unfunded pension liability is unwound when each employee reaches retirement and takes their pension from the Group payroll or is crystallised in the event of an employee leaving or retiring and choosing to take the provision as a one-off cash payment.
Sainsburys Property Scottish Limited Partnership Further to the funding plan agreed with the Schemes Trustees, on 17 June 2010 Sainsburys established the Sainsburys Property Scottish Partnership the Partnership with the Scheme.
Under this arrangement, properties to a fair value of 256 million were transferred to the Partnership.
On 25 March 2011, further properties to a fair value of 501 million were transferred to the Partnership.
Both transfers were effected via a 30 year sale and leaseback arrangement.
The Schemes interest in the Partnership currently entitles it to an annual distribution of approximately 35 million for 20 years.
These contributions will be in addition to the Groups normal cash contributions paid to the Scheme annually.
The properties transferred to the Partnership will revert to Sainsburys ownership in 2030 in return for a cash payment equal to the amount of any remaining funding deficit on the Scheme at that time, up to a maximum of 600 million.
The Partnership is controlled by Sainsburys and its results are consolidated by the Group.
The Groups balance sheet, IAS 19 deficit and income statement are unchanged by the establishment of the Partnership.
The investment held by the Scheme in the Partnership does not qualify as a plan asset for the purposes of the Groups consolidated financial statements and is therefore not included within the fair value of plan assets.
The value of the properties transferred to the Partnership remains included within the Groups property, plant and equipment on the balance sheet.
In addition, the Group retains full operational flexibility to extend, develop and substitute the properties within the Partnership.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: 2013 2012 m m Present value of funded obligations 6,594 5,654 Fair value of plan assets 5,841 5,192 753 462 Present value of unfunded obligations 13 9 Retirement benefit obligations 766 471 Deferred income tax asset 78 16 Net retirement benefit obligations 688 455 The retirement benefit obligations and the associated deferred income tax balance are shown within different line items on the face of the balance sheet.
a Income statement The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 2013 2012 m m Current service cost funded scheme 59 59 Past service cost 2 1 Included in employee costs note 7 61 60 1 Interest cost on pension scheme liabilities 280 268 Expected return on plan assets 275 285 Total included in finance costs income note 6 5 17 Total income statement expense 66 43 1 Includes interest of 1 million for the unfunded pension scheme 2012: nil.
Of the expense recognised in operating profit, 55 million 2012: 50 million is included in cost of sales and 6 million 2012: 10 million is included in administrative expenses.
The actual return on pension scheme assets net of expenses was a gain of 652 million 2012: a gain of 582 million.
114 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 F Fi ina nan nc cia ial s l st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements continued 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued b Other comprehensive income The amounts recognised in the statement of other comprehensive income are as follows: 2013 2012 m m 1 Net actuarial losses recognised during the year 366 222 Cumulative actuarial losses recognised 1,041 675 1 Net actuarial losses includes a 3 million loss for the unfunded pension scheme 2012: nil.
c Valuations The movements in the funded retirement benefit obligations are as follows: 2013 2012 m m Beginning of year 5,654 4,945 Current service cost 59 59 Past service cost 2 1 Interest cost 279 268 Contributions by plan participants 6 6 Actuarial losses 740 519 Benefits paid 146 144 End of year 6,594 5,654 The movements in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2013 2012 m m Beginning of year 5,192 4,614 Expected return on plan assets 275 285 Actuarial gains 377 297 Contributions by employer 137 134 Contributions by plan participants 6 6 Benefits paid 146 144 End of year 5,841 5,192 The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: 2013 2012 % % Equities 37 36 Bonds 41 48 Property 4 3 Other 18 13 100 100 d Assumptions The principal actuarial assumptions used at the balance sheet date are as follows: 2013 2012 % % Discount rate 4.6 5.0 Inflation rate 3.5 3.3 Future salary increases 2.6 2.4 3.3 Future pension increases 2.2 3.3 2.0 3.1 The discount rate is based on the annualised yield on an AA-rated sterling corporate bond index adjusted for the difference in term between the index and the Schemes liabilities.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 115 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued The expected return on assets has been derived as the weighted average of the expected returns from each of the main asset classes.
The expected return for each asset class reflects a combination of historical performance analysis, the forward looking view of the financial markets as suggested by the yield available and the views of investment organisations.
The life expectancy for the scheme operated at the balance sheet date for a pensioner at normal retirement age now 65 years for men and women, is as follows: 2013 2012 years years Male pensioner 22.6 21.2 Female pensioner 25.2 23.7 The base mortality assumptions are based on the SAPS tables, with adjustments to reflect the Schemes population, with future improvements based on the CMI 2011 projection with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25 per cent per annum.
e Sensitivities An increase of 0.5 per cent in the discount rate would decrease the retirement benefit obligations by 672 million.
A decrease of 0.5 per cent in the discount rate would increase the retirement benefit obligations by 749 million.
An increase of 0.5 per cent in the inflation rate would increase the retirement benefit obligations by 455 million.
A decrease of 0.5 per cent in the inflation rate would decrease the retirement benefit obligations by 425 million.
An increase of one year to the life expectancy would increase the retirement benefit obligations by 153 million.
The sensitivities are based on managements best estimate of a reasonably anticipated change.
f Experience gains and losses The history of experience adjustments on the plans for the current and previous financial years is as follows: 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 m m m m m Present value of retirement benefit obligations 6,607 5,663 4,954 4,658 3,619 Fair value of plan assets 5,841 5,192 4,614 4,237 3,310 Retirement benefit obligations 766 471 340 421 309 Experience loss gain on plan liabilities 70 106 79 116 171 Experience gain loss on plan assets 377 297 121 715 1,149 The Groups expected contributions to the defined benefit scheme for the next financial year beginning 17 March 2013 are 134 million 2012: 133 million.
31 Share-based payments The Group recognised 33 million 2012: 27 million of employee costs note 7 related to share-based payment transactions made during the financial year.
Of these, nil 2012: nil were cash-settled.
National insurance contributions are payable in respect of certain share-based payments transactions and are treated as cash-settled transactions.
At 16 March 2013, the carrying amount of national insurance contributions payable was 9 million 2012: 6 million of which 2 million 2012: nil was in respect of vested grants.
116 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 F Fi ina nan nc cia ial s l st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements continued 31 Share-based payments continued The Group operates a number of share-based payment schemes as set out below: a Savings-Related Share Option Scheme SAYE The Group operates a Savings-Related Share Option Scheme, which is open to all UK employees with more than three months continuous service.
This is an approved HMRC Scheme and was established in 1980.
Under the SAYE scheme, participants remaining in the Groups employment at the end of the three-year or five-year savings period are entitled to use their savings to purchase shares in the Company at a stated exercise price.
Employees leaving for certain reasons are able to use their savings to purchase shares within six months of their leaving.
At 16 March 2013, UK employees held 21,773 five-year savings contracts 2012: 22,976 in respect of options over 22.3 million shares 2012: 22.8 million and 37,154 three-year savings contracts 2012: 33,993 in respect of options over 24.8 million shares 2012: 22.9 million.
A reconciliation of option movements is shown below: 2013 2012 2013 Weighted 2012 Weighted Number of average Number of average options exercise price options exercise price million pence million pence Outstanding at beginning of year 45.7 263 40.5 273 Granted 13.9 267 17.5 238 Forfeited 6.9 278 6.2 282 Exercised 5.6 270 6.1 235 Outstanding at end of year 47.1 261 45.7 263 Exercisable at end of year 2.9 303 4.2 281 The weighted average share price during the period for options exercised over the year was 334 pence 2012: 303 pence.
Details of options at 16 March 2013 are set out below: Options Options outstanding outstanding Exercise price 2013 2012 Date of grant Date of expiry pence million million 15 December 2006 5 year period 31 August 2012 328 2.3 20 December 2007 5 year period 31 August 2013 331 1.5 2.4 17 December 2008 3 year period 31 August 2012 224 1.9 17 December 2008 5 year period 31 August 2014 224 4.6 4.8 10 December 2009 3 year period 31 August 2013 273 1.4 4.8 10 December 2009 5 year period 31 August 2015 273 3.3 3.6 10 December 2010 3 year period 31 August 2014 297 4.2 4.7 10 December 2010 5 year period 31 August 2016 297 3.6 4.0 10 December 2011 3 year period 31 August 2015 238 9.8 11.5 10 December 2011 5 year period 31 August 2017 238 5.1 5.7 12 December 2012 3 year period 31 August 2016 267 9.4 12 December 2012 5 year period 31 August 2018 267 4.2 47.1 45.7 Options granted during the year were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
No performance conditions were included in the fair value calculations.
The fair value per option granted during the year and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: 2013 2012 Share price at grant date pence 333 298 Exercise price pence 267 238 Expected volatility 3 year period % 19.2 22.4 5 year period % 29.5 32.2 Option life 3 year period years 3.2 3.2 5 year period years 5.2 5.2 Expected dividends expressed as dividend yield % 5.1 3.6 Risk-free interest rate 3 year period % 1.1 1.3 5 year period % 2.0 2.5 Fair value per option 3 year period pence 50 60 5 year period pence 73 85 The expected volatility is based on the standard deviation of the Groups share price for the period immediately prior to the date of grant of award, over the period identical to the vesting period of the award, adjusted for managements view of future volatility of the share price.
The resulting fair value is expensed over the service period of three or five years, as appropriate, on the assumption that 25 per cent of options will be cancelled over the service period as employees leave the SAYE scheme.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 117 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 31 Share-based payments continued b Long-Term Incentive Plan 2006 Under the Long-Term Incentive Plan 2006, shares are conditionally awarded to the top managers in the Company.
The core awards are calculated as a percentage of the participants salaries and scaled according to grades.
The awards granted between 2006 and 2011 will vest if the threshold levels of two co-dependent performance conditions Return on Capital Employed ROCE and growth in cash flow per share, are achieved over the three-year performance period.
The award granted in 2012 is assessed against ROCE, cumulative underlying cash flow from operations and relative sales measured against the IGD Index, with an Earnings Per Share gateway.
The core award can grow by up to four times, dependent on the level of performance.
Straight-line vesting will apply if performance falls between two points.
Performance will be measured at the end of the three-year performance period.
If the required level of performance has been reached, the awards vest and 50 per cent of the award will be released.
Subject to participants remaining in employment for a further year, the balance will then be released one year after the vesting date.
Options granted to acquire the award of shares will expire two years from the vesting date.
Dividends will accrue on the shares that vest in the form of additional shares.
To achieve the maximum multiplier of four, the following criteria are required to be met: Targets to achieve maximum multiplier Cash flow Return on Date of conditional award per share % capital employed % 13 July 2006 18 14 20 June 2007 18 14 28 May 2008 15 15 24 June 2009 15 15 21 June 2010 15 15 19 May 2011 12 15 Targets to achieve maximum multiplier Cumulative Return on Relative Date of conditional award underlying cash flow capital employed % sales % 17 May 2012 6,500m 12 Index 1 A reconciliation of the number of shares conditionally allocated is shown below: 2013 2012 million million Outstanding at beginning of year 9.6 10.7 Conditionally allocated 2.1 1.8 Forfeited 0.7 0.8 Released to participants 1.9 2.1 Outstanding at end of year 9.1 9.6 Details of shares conditionally allocated at 16 March 2013 are set out below: 2013 2012 Date of conditional award million million 20 June 2007 0.1 28 May 2008 0.5 1.5 24 June 2009 2.0 3.0 21 June 2010 3.0 3.3 19 May 2011 1.6 1.7 17 May 2012 2.0 9.1 9.6 Options to acquire the award of shares were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
The fair value per option granted during the year and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: 2013 2012 Share price at grant date pence 310 355 Expected volatility % 23.1 18.4 Option life years 4.2 4.2 Risk-free interest rate % 1.4 3.3 Fair value per option pence 310 355 118 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 F Fi ina nan nc cia ial s l st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements continued 31 Share-based payments continued The expected volatility is based on the standard deviation of the Groups share price for the period immediately prior to the date of grant of award, over the period identical to the vesting period of the award, adjusted for managements view of future volatility of the share price.
In March 2012, the three-year performance targets were met achieving a multiplier of 1.7 2011: 1.9.
During the year, a total number of 5.9 million shares were granted to employees as a result of achieving the performance target and 4.2 million options were exercised.
The weighted average share price during the year for options exercised was 310 pence 2012: 326 pence.
c Deferred Annual Bonus Plan The Deferred Annual Bonus Plan, applied to the top levels of management including Executive Directors and comprised around 40 participants in total.
The first deferral took place in June 2007, in respect of the bonus awards for the financial year ended 24 March 2007.
The second deferral took place in June 2008, in respect of the bonus awards for the financial year ended 22 March 2008.
The third and final deferral took place in June 2009, in respect to bonus awards for the financial year ended 21 March 2009.
The Plan measured the Companys TSR performance over a three-year period against a bespoke UK and European retail comparator group comprising: Ahold, Carrefour, Casino, Delhaize, DSG International, Home Retail Group, Kingfisher, Marks & Spencer, Metro, Morrisons, Next and Tesco.
Alliance Boots was removed from the comparator group following its fide-listing.
Up to two matched shares could be awarded for each share deferred depending on the extent to which the TSR measure is achieved.
No shares were awarded for below median performance, and the full match only applied where the Company achieved first place within the comparator group.
At median position the match was 0.5 shares for each deferred bonus share and the share match was pro-rated at every position between median and first place.
To the extent that the performance condition was met at the end of the three-year performance period, the matched shares would be added to the deferred bonus shares.
The deferred bonus shares and half of the matched shares could be accessed immediately following the performance test, while the remainder were held over for a further year.
Dividends or their equivalents accrued on shares that vested.
A reconciliation of the number of shares conditionally allocated is shown below: 2013 2012 million million Outstanding at beginning of year 0.5 0.9 Lapsed 0.4 0.4 Outstanding at end of year 0.1 0.5 Details of shares conditionally allocated at 16 March 2013 are set out below: 2013 2012 million million 20 June 2008 0.1 0.1 24 June 2009 0.4 0.1 0.5 d Deferred Share Award The Deferred Share Award targets a diverse range of business critical financial and non-financial scorecard measures.
These are intended to reward the top 45 managers in the Company, including Executive Directors, for driving the short-term objectives that will directly lead to building the sustainable, long-term growth of the Company.
Share-based awards will be made to participants subject to performance against a basket of key strategic measures.
At least 50 per cent of the award will be based on the delivery of financial performance and returns to shareholders.
The balance will be based on measures which will assess the Companys performance relative to its competitors as well as key strategic goals.
Performance against the target is measured over one financial year, but any shares awarded are deferred for a further two years to ensure that managements interests continue to be aligned with those of shareholders.
The shares are subject to forfeiture if the participant resigns or is dismissed for cause prior to their release date.
Dividends accrue on the shares that vest in the form of additional shares.
A reconciliation of the number of shares granted over the year is shown below: 2013 2012 million million Outstanding at beginning of year 2.4 1.3 Granted 1.5 1.2 Lapsed 0.3 0.1 Outstanding at end of year 3.6 2.4 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 119 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 31 Share-based payments continued The number of shares allocated at the end of the year is set out below: Shares Shares conditionally conditionally allocated allocated 2013 2012 million million 20 May 2010 1.0 1.2 19 May 2011 1.2 1.2 17 May 2012 1.4 3.6 2.4 e Bonus Share Award The Bonus arrangements for our senior managers and supermarket store managers include corporate and personal performance targets.
A profit gateway is in place which means that a certain level of underlying profit before tax must be achieved before any bonus related to the corporate element of the bonus is released.
60 per cent of the bonus is paid in cash and 40 per cent converted into shares, which are automatically released after three financial years.
The share element of the bonus arrangement is called the Bonus Share Award.
Bonus Shares are subject to forfeiture if the participant resigns or is dismissed for cause prior to their release date.
Dividends accrue on these shares and are released at the end of the three-year retention period.
Our top 45 managers do not receive Bonus Share Awards as they receive Deferred Share Awards.
A reconciliation of the number of shares granted over the year is shown below: 2013 2012 million million Outstanding at beginning of year Granted 3.7 Lapsed 0.2 Outstanding at end of year 3.5 The number of shares conditionally allocated at the end of the year is set out below: Shares Shares conditionally conditionally allocated allocated 2013 2012 million million 17 May 2012 3.5 120 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 F Fi ina nan nc cia ial s l st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements continued 32 Related party transactions Group a Key management personnel The key management personnel of the Group comprise members of the J Sainsbury plc Board of Directors and the Operating Board.
The key management personnel compensation is as follows: 2013 2012 m m Short-term employee benefits 9 9 Post-employment employee benefits 1 1 Share-based payments 11 9 21 19 Seven key management personnel had credit card balances with Sainsburys Bank 2012: six.
These arose in the normal course of business and were immaterial to the Group and the individuals.
Seven key management personnel held saving deposit accounts with Sainsburys Bank 2012: six.
These balances arose in the normal course of business and were immaterial to the Group and the individuals.
b Joint ventures Transactions with joint ventures For the 52 weeks to 16 March 2013, the Group entered into various transactions with joint ventures as set out below.
2013 2012 m m Management services provided 17 7 Offset of creditor balance with investment note 14 43 Interest income received in respect of interest bearing loans 1 1 Dividend income received 18 Repayment of loan to joint ventures 16 Investment in joint ventures 1 Sale of assets 12 Loan to joint venture 5 Acquisition of companies 21 Rental expenses paid 71 75 Year-end balances arising from transactions with joint ventures 2013 2012 m m Receivables Other receivables 14 13 Loans due from joint ventures 1 25 25 Floating rate subordinated undated loan capital 2 Floating rate subordinated dated loan capital 30 30 Other 15 16 Payables Loans due to joint ventures 5 48 1 The undated subordinated loan capital shall be repaid on such date as the Financial Services Authority shall agree in writing for such repayment and in any event not less than five years and one day from the dates of drawdown.
In the event of a winding up of Sainsburys Bank, the loan is subordinated to ordinary unsecured liabilities.
Interest is payable three months in arrears at LIBOR plus a margin of 1.0 per cent per annum for the duration of the loan.
2 No repayment of dated subordinated debt prior to its stated maturity may be made without the consent of the Financial Services Authority.
Interest is payable three months in arrears at LIBOR plus a margin of 0.6 per cent per annum for the duration of the loan.
c Retirement benefit obligations As discussed in note 30, the Group has entered into an arrangement with the Pension Scheme Trustee as part of the funding plan for the actuarial deficit in the Scheme.
Full details of this arrangement are set out in note 30 to these financial statements.
Company a Subsidiaries The Company enters into loans with its subsidiaries at both fixed and floating rates of interest on a commercial basis.
Hence, the Company incurs interest expense and earns interest income on these loans and advances.
The Company also received dividend income from its subsidiaries during the financial year.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 121 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 32 Related party transactions continued Transactions with subsidiaries 2013 2012 m m Loans and advances given to, and dividend income received from subsidiaries Loans and advances given 402 341 Loans and advances repaid by subsidiaries 330 281 Interest income received in respect of interest bearing loans and advances 161 146 Dividend income received 250 276 Loans and advances received from subsidiaries Loans and advances received 318 339 Loans and advances repaid 3 61 Interest expense paid in respect of interest bearing loans and advances 104 108 Year-end balances arising from transactions with subsidiaries 2013 2012 m m Receivables Loans and advances due from subsidiaries 2,461 2,352 Payables Loans and advances due to subsidiaries 5,390 5,316 b Joint ventures Transactions with joint ventures For the 52 weeks to 16 March 2013, the Company entered into transactions with joint ventures as set out below: 2013 2012 m m Services and loans provided to joint ventures Interest income received in respect of interest bearing loans 1 1 Year-end balances arising from transactions with joint ventures 2013 2012 m m Receivables Loans due from joint ventures 1 Floating rate subordinated undated loan capital 25 25 2 Floating rate subordinated dated loan capital 30 30 Payables Loans due to joint ventures 5 5 1 The undated subordinated loan capital shall be repaid on such date as the Financial Services Authority shall agree in writing for such repayment and in any event not less than five years and one day from the dates of drawdown.
122 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 F F Fi i ina na nan n nc c cia ia ial s l s l st t ta a at t te e em m me e en n nt t ts s s N No ot te es t s to t o th he f e fi ina nan nc cia ial s l st ta at te em me en nt ts co s con nt ti in nu ue ed d 33 Operating lease commitments The Group leases various retail stores, offices, depots and equipment under non-cancellable operating leases.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
2013 2012 m m Aggregate future minimum lease payments: Within 1 year 507 471 Within 2 to 5 years inclusive 1,889 1,741 After 5 years 6,164 6,042 8,560 8,254 The Group sublets certain leased properties: 2013 2012 m m Aggregate future minimum lease receipts: Within 1 year 29 31 Within 2 to 5 years inclusive 95 98 After 5 years 120 151 244 280 34 Capital commitments The Group has entered into contracts totalling 296 million 2012: 345 million for future capital expenditure in relation to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets not provided for in the financial statements.
The Company does not have any capital commitments 2012: nil.
35 Financial commitments Sainsburys Bank, a 50 per cent joint venture of the Group, has off balance sheet financial instruments committing it to extend credit to customers of 48 million 2012: 40 million.
36 Contingent liabilities The Group has a contingent liability for indemnities arising from the disposal of subsidiaries.
No provision has been recognised on the basis that any potential liability arising is not considered probable.
It is not possible to quantify the impact of this liability with any certainty.
37 Post balance sheet events On 7 May 2013, the Group signed a share purchase agreement with Lloyds Banking Group to purchase the remaining 50 per cent of Sainsburys Bank and take sole ownership.
The Group intends to fund the future consideration from internal resources.
The transaction, subject to regulatory approval, is expected to complete in January 2014.
On 10 April 2013, the Group entered into a consultation period regarding the proposed cessation of the future accrual of benefits within its defined benefit pension scheme.
Under this proposal, impacted colleagues will be offered membership of the Groups existing defined contribution plans.
If the proposal proceeds, it is expected to result in a decrease in the defined benefit pension scheme service cost and an increase in contributions to the defined contribution plans, as well as a reduction in the defined benefit pension liability.
Subject to the proposal being accepted, the financial impact will depend on both the implementation date and the extent to which impacted colleagues continue membership of the defined contribution plans and therefore until the consultation completes, cannot be estimated with any degree of certainty.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 123
