James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements General information The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of James Fisher and Sons plc the Company, all of its subsidiary undertakings and the Groups interest in associates and jointly controlled entities together referred to as the Group, for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and on an historical cost basis, modified to include revaluation to fair value of certain financial instruments as described below.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and financial statements.
Further information regarding the Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position is set out in the Chairmans statement and Strategic report on pages 1 to 21.
Further information regarding the financial position of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are set out in the primary statements and in note 24.
In addition, note 26 of the financial statements includes the Companys objectives: policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risks.
The Group meets its day to day working capital requirements through operating cash flows, with borrowings in place to fund acquisitions and capital expenditure.
The Group also has 68,800,000 of undrawn committed facilities none of which expire within twelve months.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonable changes in trading performance, show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current banking facilities.
The Group and Company present their financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, adopted by the European Union adopted IFRS.
The Company is a limited liability company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company and consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 3 March 2014.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, a separate income statement and related notes for the holding company have not been presented in these financial statements.
The profit after taxation in the holding company was 47,461,000 2012: 28,037,000.
The Group and Company financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except when otherwise indicated.
Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements and those of the Company have been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the EU as at 31 December 2013 and are applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
1 Significant accounting policies A summary of the principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year, is set out below.
During the year the Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations: Amendments to existing standards: Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement Amendment to IFRS 7 Disclosures - Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits Improvements to IFRS 2012 Other than amendments to IAS 19 the adoption of these standards and interpretations had no impact on the Group.
Restatement of pension costs The Group and Company has adopted the requirements of the amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits from 1 January 2013.
The standard requires that the discount rate previously applied only to the scheme liabilities is also applied to the scheme assets.
Previously separate growth assumptions were applied to scheme assets.
Scheme administration costs which were previously incorporated into the return on plan assets are now included in administration expenses.
56 Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc The impact of the restatement is as follows: Group and Company 2013 2012 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 000 000 Income Statement Increase decrease in: Administrative expenses 143 103 Finance costs 426 265 Taxation 132 90 Statement of Comprehensive Income 437 Profit for the period 278 Defined benefit plan actuarial losses 569 368 Income tax on other comprehensive income 132 90 The impact on key financial measures in the Income Statement is as follows: Operating Profit Profit for Profit before tax the year 000 000 000 31 December 2012 as reported 31,744 46,745 40,343 Impact of restatement 103 368 278 Restated 31 December 2012 31,641 46,377 40,065 The impact of the changes set out above was to reduce basic and diluted earnings per share by 0.8p 2012: 0.6p.
Basis of preparation of Group accounts The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are consolidated for the periods from, or to, the date on which control passed.
Acquisitions are accounted for under the purchase method of accounting.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses and profits and losses resulting from intra-group transactions that are recognised in assets and liabilities, are eliminated in full.
Entities in which the Group holds an interest on a long-term basis and are jointly controlled by the Group and one or more other venturers under a contractual arrangement are treated as joint ventures.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
The investment in joint ventures is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus the Groups post acquisition share in the change in net assets of the joint ventures, less any impairment provision.
The income statement reflects the Groups share of the post tax result of the joint ventures.
The Groups share of any changes recognised by the joint venture in other comprehensive income are also recognised in other comprehensive income.
Non-controlling interests represent the proportion of profit or loss and net assets not held by the Group and are presented separately in the income statement and within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from parent shareholders equity.
On the acquisition of non-controlling interests, the difference between the consideration paid and the fair value of the share of net assets acquired is recognised in equity.
Significant accounting judgements and estimates Financial and business risks The Group's activities expose it to a variety of financial and business risks.
Where possible the Group seeks to minimise these risks through its risk management policies.
Pensions The Group primarily provides pensions to its employees through defined contribution schemes but also has defined benefit obligations.
The valuation of these defined benefit schemes is subject to a high degree of volatility arising from their exposure to changes in bond yields and equity values, and sensitivity to changes in actuarial assumptions, such as to life expectancy.
This makes it difficult to predict future potential liabilities with any certainty.
Details of the Group pension schemes, the assumptions underlying their current valuations and sensitivities in respect of these assumptions are set out in note 22.
Certain defined benefit obligations relate to industry-wide schemes which are funded by current and former employers to the shipping industry.
The risk of corporate failure of any of the participants could lead to an increase in the Group's share of liability.
Impairment of goodwill The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any permanent impairment in accordance with the accounting policy on page 60.
An analysis of the Group's goodwill and the assumptions used to test for impairment together with the sensitivity of the impairment review to changes in the key assumptions is set out in note 12.
57 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Significant accounting policies continued Impairment of other assets The Group reviews the carrying value of all assets for indications of impairment at each balance sheet date.
If indicators of impairment exist the carrying value of the asset is subject to further testing to determine whether its carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount represents the higher of the asset's fair value less costs to sell and its value in use, which is determined by measuring the discounted cash flows arising from the asset including ultimate realisation on disposal.
Details of asset impairments are included in note 14.
Intangible assets The measurement of intangible assets other than goodwill on business combinations requires the performance of a review of the acquired business to assess whether such assets exist and can be identified separately and reliably measured.
Details of the assets identified in the acquisitions made during the year are set out in note 17.
Details of intangible assets included in the statement of financial position are included in note 13.
Contingent consideration Contingent consideration arises on acquisitions and is usually related to the achievement of financial performance targets relating to operating profits over an agreed period.
The outcome of these arrangements depends on a number of factors outside the control of the business including, but not limited to, competition, general economic conditions and the availability of resources within the business to meet its obligations to its customers.
The Group regularly assesses the likelihood of the targets being achieved during the performance period and makes appropriate adjustments to the expected contingent consideration through the income statement.
Revenue Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer, the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and recovery of the consideration is probable.
The timing of the transfer of risks and rewards will vary depending on the terms of the sales agreement, the evaluation of the specific risks associated with the performance of the contract for example design, construction and testing or generally accepted practice where there are no specific arrangements in the contract.
Income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in several jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax risk issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such difference will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
The Group has entered the UK tonnage tax regime under which tax on its ship owning and operating activities is based on the net tonnage of vessels operated.
Income and profits outside this regime are taxed under normal tax rules.
This means that it is necessary to make estimates of the allocation of some income and expenses between tonnage and non tonnage tax activities.
These estimates are subject to agreement with the relevant tax authorities and may be revised in future periods.
Further details are provided in notes 8 and 9.
Residual values and estimated remaining lives Assets other than vessels are depreciated to a zero residual value over their useful economic lives.
Residual values for vessels are set initially at 20% of purchase cost or fair value at acquisition, which is regarded as an approximation of current residual values.
Changes in the residual values and estimated lives of assets would result in adjustments to the current and future rate of depreciation and amortisation through the income statement or the creation of impairment provisions.
Residual values and estimated remaining lives are reviewed annually by the Directors taking into account the condition of vessels, future trading expectations and observable market transactions.
See note 14 for details of movements on tangible fixed assets in the year.
Investments The Group holds a number of investments in unquoted entities.
These interests are accounted for as investments as the Group does not consider that it exercises significant influence over the policies and control of these entities.
As the fair value of these shareholdings cannot be readily ascertained or reliably measured, these investments are held at initial cost subject to annual impairment review.
The Group holds investments in subsidiaries operating in certain jurisdictions where foreign investors are prohibited from owning a majority of the equity share capital of locally domicilied entities.
Where possible these investments have been structured so that, in the opinion of the Directors, the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity to the extent that it is able to consolidate 100% of the operations and is not required to recognise a minority interest in these entities.
Where this is not possible the Group recognises as a minority interest the share of the right to receive future income distributions attributable to the local investor.
58 Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc 1 Significant accounting policies continued Accounting policies Foreign currency i Group The Group financial statements are presented in Sterling which is the Company's functional and presentational currency.
The net investments in overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated from their functional currency into Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The exchange differences arising on the retranslation of opening net assets are taken directly to the translation reserve.
Exchange differences arising on monetary items forming part of the Group's net investment in overseas subsidiary undertakings which are denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary undertaking are taken directly to the translation reserve.
Exchange differences on other foreign currency borrowings to the extent that they are used to provide an effective hedge against Group equity investments in foreign currency are taken directly to the translation reserve.
Exchange differences on the net investment in overseas subsidiary undertakings are recognised in the translation reserve until such time as the subsidiary is disposed of at which time they are included in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquistion are translated into Sterling at the period end exchange rate.
The income and expenses arising in foreign operations are translated at the average exchange rate for the reporting period.
All other exchange differences on transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on settlement of monetary items or on the retranslation of monetary items at rates different from those at which they were initially recognised are taken to the income statement.
Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences included in the translation reserve are also dealt with in the translation reserve.
ii Company Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
All exchange differences on assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are taken to the income statement.
The Company's investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures In its separate financial statements the Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures at cost.
Income is recognised from these investments when its right to receive the dividend is established.
Financial assets The Group recognises three classes of financial assets: Loans and receivables Available for sale financial assets Derivatives a Loans and receivables These comprise non-derivative financial assets such as trade receivables, with fixed or determinable payments, that are not quoted in an active market.
Such assets are recognised initially at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method if the time value of money may have a significant impact on their value less any impairment losses.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the loans or receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
If there is evidence of an impairment loss on assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the carrying amount of the asset and the estimated future cash flows after excluding amounts already provided against, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
If in a subsequent period the factors which indicated the original decision to impair the asset cease to exist, or are mitigated then the previously recognised impairment loss can be reversed subject to the revised carrying value of the asset not exceeding its amortised cost at the date the impairment is reversed.
Any reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss.
A provision is made against a trade receivable only when there is objective evidence that the Group may not be able to recover all of the amount due under the original terms of the invoice.
The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through the use of a provision for doubtful debts account.
Impaired debts are derecognised when they are assessed as uncollectable.
b Available for sale financial assets These are non-derivatives that are either designated or not classed as another category.
These are included as non current assets unless intended to be disposed of within twelve months of the balance sheet date.
After initial recognition, available for sale financial assets are measured at fair value with gains and losses being recognised as a separate component of other comprehensive income until the investment is derecognised or deemed to be impaired, at which point the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the income statement in the period in which it arises.
59 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Significant accounting policies continued Where investments are held in unlisted equity shares where there is no active market the investment is held at cost within non-current assets and is subject to annual impairment.
If an available for sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortisation and its current fair value, less any previously recognised impairment loss, is transferred from other comprehensive income to profit or loss.
Reversal of impairment provisions are not recognised in profit or loss.
c Derivatives Derivative financial instruments are classified as held for trading unless they are designated as hedging instruments.
Assets are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognised in the income statement unless designated as a hedging instrument.
Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost.
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are recorded at cost which represents the fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either finite or indefinite.
Intangible assets having finite lives are amortised over their useful economic life and are assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that they are impaired.
The amortisation period is reviewed at the end of each accounting period.
The amortisation of intangible assets is recognised in the income statement.
The principal rates used are: Development costs 20% or over the expected period of product sales Intellectual property 5% to 33% Patents and Licences 20% or over the period of the licence Other Intangibles 20% Subsequent expenditure on intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits arising from that specific asset.
Goodwill Following the adoption of IFRS 3 2008 - business combinations, goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and business units from 1 January 2010 represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration payable to the vendor plus the recognised amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree, over the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships.
Such amounts are generally recognised in profit or loss.
Goodwill on acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 1 January 2010 represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities that the Group incurrs in connection with a business combination, are expensed as incurred.
Goodwill is stated at cost less provision for impairment.
The carrying value of goodwill arising on each acquisition is reviewed annually for impairment but more regularly if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
When an impairment loss is recognised it cannot be reversed in a subsequent accounting period, even if the circumstances which led to the impairment cease to exist.
For the purposes of determining impairment of purchased goodwill carried in the balance sheet, all goodwill is allocated against the appropriate combination of business units deemed to obtain advantage from the benefits acquired with the goodwill.
These are designated as cash generating units CGU.
Impairment is then assessed by comparing the recoverable amount of the relevant CGU with the carrying value of the CGU's assets and liabilities and related goodwill.
Recoverable amount is measured as the higher of the CGU's fair value less cost to sell and the value in use.
Where relevant in order to assess the value of goodwill the Group combines a number of CGU's.
Where the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
For goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 amortisation ceased at transition to IFRS and it is carried at its previous carrying amount subject to provision for impairment.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions in the year to 31 December 1997 and earlier periods which was written off to reserves in accordance with the accounting standard then in force, has not been reinstated in the balance sheet and will continue to be accounted for in reserves even if the business to which it relates is subsequently disposed of.
Separately disclosed items Separately disclosed items are those which management believe would provide a clearer indication of the underlying trading performance of the Group if they are removed from the underlying results and shown separately.
These are usually items which are significant in size or non-recurring in nature.
Warranty costs Provision is made for warranties offered with products where it is probable that an obligation to transfer economic benefits to the customer in future will arise.
This provision is based on management's assessment of the previous history of claims and probability of future obligations arising on a product by product basis.
Provisions for warranty costs included in the balance sheet at 31 December 2013 were 911,000 31 December 2012: nil.
60 Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Refit costs relating to vessels are capitalised when incurred and amortised over 30 months, which is deemed to be the useful economic life of the asset.
Other subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits associated with the asset to which it relates.
Depreciation is provided to write-down the cost of property, plant and equipment less accumulated depreciation to their residual value in equal annual instalments over their remaining estimated useful lives.
The principal rates used are: Freehold property 2.5% Leasehold improvements 2.5% or over the period of the lease Plant and equipment 5% to 20% Ships 4% to 10% No depreciation is charged on assets under construction.
Residual values for vessels are set initially at 20% of purchase cost or fair value at acquisition, which the Directors believe to be an approximation of current residual values.
Residual values and estimated remaining lives are reviewed annually by the Directors and adjusted if appropriate to reflect the relevant market conditions and expectations, obsolescence and normal wear and tear.
The cost of property, plant and equipment includes expenditure incurred during construction, delivery and modification.
Where a substantial period of time is required to bring the asset into use attributable finance costs are capitalised and included in the cost of the relevant asset.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Impairment of assets At each reporting date the Group asseses whether there are any indications that an asset has been impaired.
If any indication exists, the Group makes an estimate of the recoverable amount of the asset concerned.
The recoverable amount is determined as the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
These calculations are determined for an individual asset unless that asset does not generate cash inflows independently from other assets, in which case its value is determined as part of that group of assets.
Where the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered to be impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
To assess the value in use the estimated future cash flows relating to the asset are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessment of the time value of money and risks specific to the asset.
Impairment losses on continuing and discontinued operations are recognised in the income statement.
If an event occurs after the recognition of an impairment that leads to a decrease in the amount of the impairment loss previously recognised the impairment loss is reversed.
The reversal is recognised in the income statement to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
Research and development costs Expenditure undertaken by the Group on research is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Expenditure on development costs which represents the application of research to the development of new products or processes is capitalised provided that specific projects are identifiable, technically feasible, and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development.
The useful life of projects meeting the criteria for capitalisation is determined on a project by project basis.
Capitalised development expenditure is amortised over its expected useful life on a straight line basis.
Capitalised development costs are measured at costs less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Other development costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes all costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition, as follows: Raw materials, consumables stores and finished goods for sale - purchase cost on a first in first out basis: Work in progress and finished goods - cost of direct materials and labour plus attributable overheads allocated on a systematic basis based on a normal level of activity: Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less the estimated costs of completion and sale or disposal.
Long-term service contracts i General Where the outcome of a long-term contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs relating to the construction contract are recognised in accordance with the stage of completion of the contract, in the period in which the work is performed.
The stage of completion is assessed by reference to physical progress, attributable man hours and costs incurred measured against the expected outcome based on the most appropriate method for the specific type of contract.
Revenue from the contract is recognised under the percentage of completion method whereby recognition is determined by reference to the stage of completion of the contract.
Contract costs incurred that relate to future activity are deferred and recognised as inventory.
61 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Significant accounting policies continued When a loss is expected to be incurred on a long-term contract it is recognised as an expense immediately in the income statement.
When the outcome of a long-term contract cannot be estimated reliably no profit is recognised.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that costs incurred will be recovered.
ii Bid costs All bid costs incurred relating to contracts for the design, manufacture or operation of assets or the provision of services to third parties are expensed to the income statement as incurred, except for those costs incurred after the point at which the contract award is virtually certain.
Directly attributable costs incurred subsequent to this point are included within contract costs and amortised over the life of the initial period of the contract to which they relate.
Taxation Tonnage tax payable by those Group entities who have entered the tonnage tax regime is provided by reference to net tonnage of qualifying vessels at the current rate.
Corporation tax is provided on taxable profits from activities not qualifying for the tonnage tax regime and is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to a business combination or items recognised directly in equity, or in other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected corporation tax payable or receivable in respect of the taxable profit for the year using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, less any adjustments to tax payable or receivable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities included in the financial statements and the amounts used for tax purposes, that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less or to receive more tax, with the following exceptions: No provision is made where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination that at the time of the transaction affect neither accounting nor taxable profit: and No provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on all taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the Directors consider that it is probable that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying temporary differences and unused tax losses and credits can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset is expected to be realised or liability settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax arising on actuarial gains and losses relating to defined benefit pension funds is recorded in other comprehensive income.
Where the cash contributions made to the schemes exceed the service costs recognised in the income statement the current tax arising is recorded in other comprehensive income.
No deferred tax is recognised on vessels which are subject to the tonnage tax regime.
Derivatives and other financial instruments The Group operates in international markets and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily relating to the US Dollar, Euro and Norwegian Kroner.
The Group is also exposed to interest rate risk arising from long-term borrowings.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage or hedge risk, in the form of foreign currency contracts, to manage foreign exchange risk and interest rate swaps to reduce exposure to interest rate movements.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
All derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date that the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value at the balance sheet date.
Fair value is calculated by reference to current forward exchange contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
The recognition of the gains or losses arising on these movements in fair value depends on whether a derivative is designated as a hedge and if so the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group recognises two classes of hedges for derivative financial instruments: Hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or an unrecognised firm commitment fair value hedge : Hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or recognised assets or liabilities cash flow hedge.
Cash flow hedges These can include forward foreign currency contracts which the Group will enter into only if they meet the following criteria: The instrument must be related to a foreign currency risk of a firm commitment: It must involve the same currency as the hedged item: and It must reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on the Group's operations.
62 Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc These may also include interest rate swaps which must have the following characteristics: The instrument must be related to a recognised asset or a liability: and It must change the character of the interest rate by converting a variable rate to a fixed rate.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated and qualifying as cash flow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Gains or losses arising on any portion deemed to be ineffective are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Where the hedge relates to a firm commitment or forecast transaction which subsequently results in the recognition of an asset or liability, the cumulative gain or loss relating to that item is removed from equity and included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
Otherwise the cumulative amount is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement at the same time as the related movements on the hedged transaction.
When the term of the hedging instrument expires or it is sold, or where the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss included in other comprehensive income is retained in equity until either the related forecast transaction occurs, in which case it is recognised in accordance with the policy stated above, or if the hedged transaction is not expected to take place, it is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Fair value hedges Where a derivative is designated as a hedge of the variability in the fair value of an asset or liability of the Group, it is designated as a fair value hedge.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement at the same time as the related movements in the hedged asset or liability.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Changes in the fair value of any derivatives which do not qualify for hedge accounting under any of the criteria outlined above are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Calculation of fair values The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined using assumptions based on market conditions at the balance sheet date or discounted cash flow techniques.
Interest-bearing loans and other borrowings All interest-bearing loans and other borrowings are initially recorded at fair value, which represents the fair value of the consideration received net of any issue costs associated with other borrowings.
Finance charges, including any premiums payable on settlement or redemption of debt instruments including preference shares and the direct costs of issue, are accounted for on an amortised cost basis in the income statement.
Charges are calculated using the effective interest method, and are recognised in the income statement over the term of such instruments at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Accounting for leases i Operating leases Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases.
Lease payments under operating leases are charged on a straight line basis over the lease term.
ii Finance leases A lease arrangement under which substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the leased item rest with the lessee are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the related item or the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and a reduction in the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are expensed to the income statement.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the estimated useful life of the asset.
Pension plans i Defined contribution scheme Under this type of pension plan the Group pays a pre-determined contribution to a separate privately administered pension plan.
Other than this contribution the Group has no further legal or constructive obligation to make further contributions to the scheme.
Obligations for contributions to the scheme are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
ii Defined benefit scheme A defined benefit scheme is a pension plan under which the amount of pension benefit that an employee receives on retirement is defined by reference to factors including age, years of service and compensation.
The schemes are funded by payments determined by periodic actuarial calculations agreed between the Group and the trustees of trustee-administered funds.
63 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Significant accounting policies continued The cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period current service cost and to current and prior periods to determine the present value of the defined benefit obligation.
Current service costs are recognised in the income statement in the current year.
Past service costs are recognised in the income statement immediately.
When a settlement which eliminates all obligations for benefits already accrued or a curtailment which reduces future obligations as a result of a reduction in future entitlement occurs, the obligation and related plan assets are remeasured using current actuarial assumptions and the gain or loss recognised in the income statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
The interest element of the defined benefit cost represents the change in the present value of scheme obligations resulting from the passage of time and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening present value of the benefit obligation, taking into account material changes in the obligation during the year.
The return on scheme assets is determined by multiplying the fair value of plan assets by the discount rate, as determined at the start of the annual reporting period, taking account of any changes in the plan assets held during the period as a result of contributions or benefits payments.
The return on scheme assets and the interest cost are recognised in the income statement in finance costs.
A liability is recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the Group's net obligations to the schemes which is calculated separately for each scheme.
The liability represents the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the balance sheet date, less the fair value of the scheme assets.
The defined benefit obligations represent the estimated amount of future benefits that employees have earned in return for their services in current and prior periods, discounted at a rate representing the yield on a high quality corporate bond at the balance sheet date, denominated in the same currency as the obligations, and having the same terms to maturity as the related pension liability, applied to the estimated future cash outflows arising from these obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the total of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of economic benefits available in the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
In order to calculate the present value of economic benefits, consideration is given to any minimum funding requirements that apply to the plan.
An economic benefit is available to the Group if it is realisable during the life of the plan, or on settlement of the plan liabilities.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit related to past service by employees is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Actuarial gains and losses on experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions that arise subsequent to 1 January 2004 are recognised in the period in which they arise directly in the statement of comprehensive income.
Share based payments The Company operates executive share option schemes and a savings related share option scheme under which options have been granted to employees of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
For options granted since 7 November 2002 the fair value of employee services rendered in exchange for the grant of options is determined by the fair value of the option at the date of grant.
The total amount, which is expensed over the specified period until the options can be exercised the vesting period, is recognised cumulatively as an expense in the income statement with a corresponding credit to equity.
The fair value of the option is determined by the use of mathematical modelling techniques, including the Black-Scholes option pricing model and the Binomial model.
Non-market vesting conditions such as profitability and growth targets are excluded from the fair value calculation but included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
The Company re-assesses its estimate of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable at each balance sheet date.
Any adjustments to the original estimates are recognised in the income statement and equity over the remaining vesting period with any element of any adjustments relating to prior periods recognised in the current period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, such as the performance of the Group relative to a group or index composed of third party entities.
These are treated as vested irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
In addition to failure by the employee to exercise an option in accordance with the exercise period allowed by the scheme, an award made to an employee under a share option scheme is deemed to lapse when either the scheme is cancelled by the Company, or when an employee, who continues to qualify for membership of a scheme, ceases to pay contributions to that scheme.
In these circumstances the full remaining unexpired cost of the award will be expensed in the period in which the option lapses.
When awards are made to employees of a subsidiary, the award is treated as a capital contribution to the subsidiary with a corresponding increase in the cost of investment being reflected in the Company balance sheet.
No reversal of previously recognised expense is made when options lapse.
64 Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc Where the exercise of options is satisfied by the issue of shares by the Company the nominal value of any shares issued from the exercise of options is credited to share capital with the balance of the proceeds received, net of transaction costs, credited to share premium.
Short-term employee benefits The Group recognises a liability and an expense for short-term employee benefits, including bonuses, only when contractually or constructively obliged.
Treasury shares Shares issued by the Company which are held by the Company or its subsidiary entities including the Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT, are designated as treasury shares.
The cost of these shares is deducted from equity.
No gains or losses are recognised on the purchase, sale, cancellation or issue of treasury shares.
Consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity.
ESOP Trust Company shares are held in an employee share ownership plan ESOP.
The finance costs and administration costs relating to the ESOP are charged to the income statement.
Dividend income arising on own shares is excluded in arriving at profit before taxation and deducted from aggregate dividends paid.
The shares are ignored for the purposes of calculating the Group's earnings per share.
Revenue Revenue, after excluding trade discounts and value added tax, represents the provision of goods and services by the Group and its subsidiaries in the normal course of business and is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer.
The transfer of risks and rewards is assumed to pass to the customer on delivery of the goods or completion of the provision of the relevant services.
Where services rendered relate to long-term contracts and are not completed at the balance sheet date, revenue is recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the transaction measured by reference to the proportion of total expected costs incurred.
Revenue is not recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration due.
Details of the revenue recognised on long-term contracts are included on page 69.
Rentals receivable under operating leases are credited to revenue on a straight line basis over the lease term.
There are no rental commitments in respect of long-term leasing arrangements.
Non-current assets held for sale On classification as held for sale, non-current assets are recognised at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale are included in profit or loss, as are any gains and losses on subsequent remeasurement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and short-term deposits included in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less from the original acquisition date.
Cash and cash equivalents included in the cash flow statement comprise cash and short-term deposits, net of bank overdrafts.
Further analysis of movements on cash equivalents is given in note 25.
Other reserves Other reserves comprise the following: Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of operations whose financial statements are denominated in foreign currencies as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Company's net investment in a foreign subsidiary.
Hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Intra Group financial instruments Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtness of other companies within the Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such.
In this respect the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
65 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Significant accounting policies continued New standards and interpretations not applied The International Accounting Standards Board IASB and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC have also issued the following standards and interpretations which have been endorsed by the EU at 31 December 2013 with an effective date of implementation after the date of these financial statements: International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs Effective Date for Group IFRS 10 revised Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2014 IFRS 11 revised Joint Arrangements 1 January 2014 IFRS 12 revised Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2014 IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements 2011 1 January 2014 IAS 28 revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 2011 1 January 2014 Amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2014 The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group's financial statements in the period of initial application.
2 Segmental information Operating segments During 2013, management has determined that the definition of operating segments should be revised to better reflect the nature of the Group's businesses.
The revised segments, which continue to be based on the products and services provided by the business, are defined as follows: Marine Support - includes the hire and sale of large scale pneumatic fenders and ship to ship transfer services, and the design and supply of systems for monitoring strains and stress in structures.
Offshore Oil - manufacture and rental of equipment for the offshore oil and gas industry and the design and manufacture of specialist downhole tools and equipment for extracting oil.
Specialist Technical - provision of subsea services including submarine rescue and saturation diving including maintenance, asset management and consultancy services and non-destructive testing, decommissioning and remote operations and monitoring services predominantly to the nuclear industry.
Tankships - engaged in the sea transportation of clean petroleum products in North West Europe.
The main changes to the previous structure are that the fendering mooring and strain businesses are transferred out of the Specialist Technical segment into a new segment, Marine Support.
The former Defence segment together with Divex and the nuclear activities is included within Specialist Technical.
The Offshore Oil segment is unchanged and the Marine Oil division is renamed Tankships.
Inter segmental sales are made using prices determined on an arms length basis.
The Group's largest customer accounted for 8% of Group external revenue 2012: 12%.
Business segments The following tables present revenue and profit and certain asset and liability information regarding the Group's business segments for the years ended 31 December 2013 and 2012 restated for the changes described above.
Further information on the activities of these segments is included in the Chairman's statement and Strategic report on pages 1 to 21.
66 Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc Year ended 31 December 2013 Marine Specialist Support Offshore Oil Technical Tankships Corporate Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Segmental revenue 174,918 99,632 84,164 61,312 - 420,026 Inter segment sales 3,651 442 2,266 - - 6,359 Group revenue 171,267 99,190 81,898 61,312 - 413,667 Underlying operating profit 18,262 19,690 8,544 3,200 3,059 46,637 Acquisition costs 150 - 789 - - 939 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 114 137 548 - - 799 Operating profit 17,998 19,553 7,207 3,200 3,059 44,899 Profit on sale of subsidiary and joint venture undertaking 182 - 6,795 - - 6,613 Finance income 256 Finance costs 5,545 Profit before tonnage and income tax 46,223 Tonnage and income tax 7,475 Profit attributable to equity holders 38,748 Share of post tax results of associates and joint ventures 831 - 1,547 - - 2,378 Assets and liabilities Segment assets 92,591 136,486 81,078 43,990 35,407 389,552 Investment in joint ventures 7,458 - 2,009 - - 9,467 Total assets 100,049 136,486 83,087 43,990 35,407 399,019 Segment liabilities 35,898 17,858 36,473 11,831 113,152 215,212 64,151 118,628 46,614 32,159 77,745 183,807 Other segment information Capital expenditure: Property, plant and equipment 4,293 14,812 3,615 1,243 786 24,749 Depreciation 3,202 7,917 1,376 4,427 139 17,061 Amortisation of intangible assets 228 384 887 - - 1,499 Corporate assets comprise available for sale assets, deferred tax and centrally held corporate assets.
Corporate liabilities comprise net borrowings, pension scheme and corporate tax and deferred tax liabilities.
67 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Segmental information continued Business segments Year ended 31 December 2012 restated Marine Specialist Support Offshore Oil Technical Tankships Corporate Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Revenue Segmental revenue 159,826 83,694 62,748 61,824 - 368,092 Inter segment sales 2,439 335 1,980 - - 4,754 Group revenue 157,387 83,359 60,768 61,824 - 363,338 Underlying operating profit 19,341 17,131 5,473 2,405 3,201 41,149 Impairment of vessels 1,659 - - 7,573 - 9,232 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 87 138 51 - - 276 Operating profit 17,595 16,993 5,422 5,168 3,201 31,641 Profit on sale of subsidiary and joint venture undertaking 20,896 - - - - 20,896 Finance income 262 Finance costs 6,422 Profit before tonnage and income tax 46,377 Tonnage and income tax 6,312 Profit attributable to equity holders 40,065 Share of post tax results of associates and joint ventures 798 - 2,284 - - 3,082 Assets and liabilities Segment assets 98,709 127,732 44,030 49,313 27,058 346,842 Investment in joint ventures 7,710 - 4,681 - - 12,391 Total assets 106,419 127,732 48,711 49,313 27,058 359,233 Segment liabilities 31,711 14,553 14,258 16,534 118,261 195,317 74,708 113,179 34,453 32,779 91,203 163,916 Other segment information Capital expenditure: Property, plant and equipment 8,950 12,912 1,616 2,558 64 26,100 Depreciation 2,801 7,226 849 4,681 167 15,724 Amortisation of intangible assets 653 298 51 - - 1,002 C orporate assets comprise available for sale assets, deferred tax and centrally held corporate assets.
Corporate liabilities comprise net borrowings, pension scheme and corporate tax and deferred tax liabilities 68 Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc Geographic information The following table represents revenue, expenditure and certain asset information regarding the Group's geographic presence for the years ended 2013 and 2012.
Further analysis of the geographic spread of the business outside the European area has been provided in order to enable a better understanding of the scope of the Group's overseas activities.
Geographical revenue is determined by the location in which the product or service is provided.
Where customers receive the product or service in one geographical location for use or shipment to another it is not practicable for the Group to identify this and the revenue is attributed to the location of the initial shipment.
The geographical allocation of segmental assets and liabilities is determined by the location of the attributable business unit.
These comprise costs incurred in acquiring businesses, significant impairments, the amortisation of acquired intangibles and profits and losses on the disposal of subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Amortisation of acquired intangibles relates to the amortisation of the value attributed to customer relationships arising on the acquisition of certain subsidiaries.
Acquisition costs relate to businesses acquired during the period.
2013 2012 000 000 Impairment of vessels - 9,232 Acquisition costs 939 - Amortisation of acquired intangibles 799 276 Separately disclosed gross loss 1,738 9,508 Profit on sale of subsidiary and joint venture undertakings 6,613 20,896 Separately disclosed profit before taxation 4,875 11,388 Tax on separately disclosed items 270 361 5,145 11,749 69 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Separately disclosed items continued On 19 August 2013 the Group disposed of its 25% interest in Foreland Holdings Limited for a gross consideration of 11,425,000.
The gain of 6,795,000 is included in the Specialist Technical division.
In August 2013 the Group disposed of the marine leisure business of Fendercare Australia for a consideration of 1,395,000.
An operating loss on disposal of 182,000 has been recognised on this transaction and is included in the Marine Support division.
On 31 December 2012 the Group disposed of the entire issued share capital of The Railway Engineering Company Limited TRE for a gross consideration of 25,500,000.
The gain of 20,896,000 is included in the Marine Support division.
Details of disposals are set out in note 17.
In 2012 the Directors performed an impairment review of its fleet of vessels.
The Group's strategy is to make further adjustments to its fleet both in total and between tonnage types, to meet contracted demand.
As a result of the review an impairment was recognised in the Tankships division of 7,573,000 and 1,659,000 in Marine Support in the income statement.
Following the disposal of m. v. Asperity in December 2013, 1,355,000 of the Tankships provision was utilised.
The Directors have reviewed the impairment provision at 31 December 2013 and having considered the global vessel market believe that the remaining provision is appropriate.
Further details are given in note 14.
5 Operating profit This is stated after charging crediting 2013 2012 000 000 Profit on sale of subsidiary and joint venture undertaking 6,613 20,896 Impairment of vessels - 9,232 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 476 670 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment: ships 4,702 4,964 other 12,359 10,760 Total depreciation charge 17,061 15,724 Amortisation of intangible assets 1,499 1,002 Research and development costs 1,624 1,667 Net foreign currency losses gains 510 376 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 119,779 94,462 Operating lease rentals: property 4,578 3,758 ships 10,643 9,537 other 660 687 15,881 13,982 14,186 hire of vessels 9,595 30,067 23,577 The prior year has been restated to remove sub contract costs 2013 2012 Auditor's remuneration comprises the following: 000 000 Audit of the financial statements of the parent 152 140 Fees payable to the Company's auditor and its associates for other services: Local statutory audits of subsidiaries 378 276 530 416 Taxation services 124 305 Corporate finance services 31 - Other services 58 42 743 763 Audit fees relate entirely to the Group's current auditor, KPMG Audit plc.
70 Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc 6 Staff costs and Directors emoluments Group 2013 2012 a Staff costs including Executive Directors 000 000 Wages and salaries 83,760 69,975 Social security costs 8,636 6,958 Pension costs see note 22 4,531 3,234 Share based compensation 1,205 1,192 98,132 81,359 The monthly average number of persons including Executive Directors employed by the Group was: Group 2013 2012 Number Number Technical and administrative 1,948 1,577 Seafarers 242 246 2,190 1,823 2013 2012 b Directors' emoluments 000 000 Directors' emoluments 1,098 1,839 Aggregate gains made by Directors on the exercise of options 194 4 Pension contributions to defined contribution schemes 82 87 Number of Directors accruing benefits under: Defined contribution schemes 1 2 Full details of the Directors emoluments and their interests in the Executive Share Option Schemes, Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Savings Related Share Option Schemes are set out in the Directors Remuneration report on pages 30 to 41.
2013 2012 Compensation of key management to the Group 000 000 Short-term employee benefits 1,645 1,839 - Termination payments 157 Share based payments 545 549 2,190 2,545 Key management personnel comprise the Board of Directors of the Company and certain senior business managers.
7 Finance income and finance costs restated note 1 2013 2012 000 000 Bank interest receivable 256 262 Interest payable in respect of: Bank loans and overdrafts 3,670 4,260 Amortisation of loan arrangement fees 505 660 Preference dividend 4 3 Finance charges payable under finance leases 36 40 Net interest on pension obligations 1,097 1,400 Unwind of discount on deferred consideration 233 - Other interest - 59 5,545 6,422 71 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 8 Taxation The Group has entered the UK tonnage tax regime under which tax on its ship owning and operating activities is based on the net tonnage of vessels operated.
Any income and profits outside the tonnage tax regime are taxed under the normal tax rules of the relevant tax jurisdiction.
restated note 1 2013 2012 The tax charge is as follows: 000 000 Current tax: UK corporation tax 4,795 3,571 Tax overprovided in previous years 674 23 Foreign tax 4,310 3,724 Total current tax 8,431 7,272 Deferred tax: 969 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 975 Total taxation on continuing operations 7,462 6,297 The total tax charge in the income statement is allocated as follows Income tax expense reported in Group income statement 7,462 6,297 Share of joint ventures current tax note 15 485 174 Total income tax expense 7,947 6,471 Income tax on comprehensive income Current tax: Current tax on foreign exchange losses on internal loans 14 78 Current tax on contributions to defined benefit pension schemes 1,287 944 Current tax relating to derivatives 26 - Deferred tax: Deferred tax relating to remeasurement gains and losses in defined benefit pension schemes 670 1,254 Deferred tax relating to fair value of derivatives 430 47 175 279 Reconciliation of effective tax rate The tax on the Group's profit on continuing activities differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the rate applicable under UK corporation tax rules as follows: 2013 2012 000 000 Profit before tax from continuing operations 46,223 46,377 Tax arising in interests in joint ventures note 15 485 174 46,708 46,551 At UK statutory tax rate of 23.25% 2012: 24.5% 10,860 11,405 Difference due to application of tonnage tax to vessel activities 617 1,369 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 930 274 Profit on disposal of subsidiary 1,657 5,120 Over under provision in previous years Current tax 674 23 Deferred tax 192 393 Share based payments 45 33 Lower taxes on overseas income 385 429 70 Research and development relief 147 Utilisation of losses brought forward 191 216 Impact of change of rate 682 262 Other 196 46 7,947 6,471 72 Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc The effective income tax rate on the underlying profit before tax is 18.6% 2012: 19.0%.
The effective rate on profit before income and tonnage tax from continuing operations is 16.2% 2012: 13.6%.
Unrecognised tax losses At 31 December 2013 the Group has unrecognised tax losses of 77,000 2012: 77,000.
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of these losses due to the uncertainty relating to their future recovery.
The Group has elected to enter tonnage tax with effect from 2000.
This election was renewed in 2009.
The shipping activities of FT Everard and Sons Limited entered the regime on acquisition in 2006.
The election had the effect of eliminating future potential tax liabilities on shipping profits of qualifying ships in the United Kingdom.
The regime includes provisions whereby a proportion of capital allowances previously claimed by the Group can be subject to tax in the event of a significant number of assets being sold and not replaced.
This contingent liability diminishes to nil over the seven year period following entry into tonnage tax.
The contingent liability relating to the ships operated by the Group on entry into tonnage tax has expired in accordance with this seven year provision.
There is no provision for deferred tax on accelerated capital allowances for activities which fall within tonnage tax.
UK corporation tax rates are reducing from 28% to 20% over a period of four years from 2011.
The rate reduced to 23% on 1 April 2013 and further reductions to 21% and 20% effective from 1 April 2014 and 1 April 2015 respectively have also been enacted.
This will reduce the Group's future current tax charge accordingly.
The deferred tax balance at 31 December 2013 has been calculated based on application of the reduced 20% UK corporation tax rate from the relevant date and the impact of the remeasurement has been included in the income statement and other comprehensive income as appropriate.
9 Deferred tax Group Deferred tax at 31 December relates to the following: Balance sheet Income statement 2013 2012 2013 2012 000 000 000 000 Deferred tax assets Retirement benefits 4,227 4,826 72 234 Share based payments 1,554 1,062 9 29 Derivative financial instruments 23 453 - - Losses carried forward 107 205 99 205 5,911 6,546 Deferred tax liabilities Property plant and equipment 2,803 3,291 488 804 Intangible assets 2,531 2,097 93 327 Other items 1,061 668 592 88 4,273 4,720 Deferred income tax charge 969 975 Net deferred income tax asset 1,638 1,826 Deferred tax assets and liabilities included in the consolidated balance sheet have been analysed according to the net exposures in each tax jurisdiction.
The gross movement on the deferred income tax account is as follows: 2013 2012 000 000 Balance at 1 January 1,826 1,523 Charged to comprehensive income 617 902 Credited to income statement 969 975 Exchange adjustments 190 3 Acquisition of subsidiaries 730 - Disposal of subsidiaries note 17 - 233 Balance at 31 December 1,638 1,826 At 31 December 2013 the Group has no recognised deferred income tax liability 2012: nil in respect of taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain of the Company's subsidiaries.
At 31 December 2013 the unrecognised gross temporary differences in respect of reserves of overseas subsidiaries is 37,444,000 2012: 45,327,000.
No deferred income tax liability has been recognised in respect of this temporary timing difference due to the foreign profits exemption, the availability of double taxation relief and the ability to control the remittance of earnings.
There are no income tax consequences attaching to the payment of dividends by the Group to its shareholders.
73 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 9 Deferred tax continued Company Deferred tax at 31 December relates to the following: Balance sheet 2013 2012 000 000 Deferred tax assets Retirement benefits 2,876 3,126 Temporary differences 815 571 Share based payments 1,554 1,062 Accelerated capital allowances for tax purposes 15 53 Derivative financial instruments 92 243 Losses carried forward 107 205 5,275 5,260 Deferred tax liabilities Other 9 14 9 14 Net deferred income tax asset 5,266 5,246 The gross movement on the deferred income tax account is as follows: Balance at 1 January 5,246 5,153 Charged to equity in statement of comprehensive income 254 431 Credited to income statement 274 524 Balance at 31 December 5,266 5,246 At 31 December 2013 the Company has no recognised deferred income tax liability 2012: nil in respect of taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain of the company's subsidiaries.
74 Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc 10 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, after excluding ordinary shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Trust and held as treasury shares.
Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
At 31 December 2013 172,227 options 2012: 10,315 were excluded from the diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares calculation as their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
The average market value of the Company's shares for purposes of calculating the dilutive effect of share options was based on quoted market prices for the period during which the options were outstanding.
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following number of shares: Weighted average number of shares 2013 2012 Number of Number of shares shares For basic earnings per ordinary share 49,921,772 49,871,906 Potential exercise of share options and LTIPs 588,818 395,964 For diluted earnings per ordinary share 50,510,590 50,267,870 Excludes 154,170 2012: 186,329 shares owned by the James Fisher and Sons plc Employee Share Ownership Trust.
Adjusted earnings per share To provide a better understanding of the underlying performance of the Group, an adjusted earnings per share on continuing activities is provided.
Adjusted earnings are before separately disclosed items.
restated note 1 2013 2012 000 000 Profit attributable to owners of the Company 38,254 39,466 Adjustments: Separately disclosed items 4,875 11,388 Tax on separately disclosed items 270 361 Adjusted profit attributable to owners of the Company 33,109 27,717 pence pence 76.6 Basic earnings per share on profit from operations 79.1 Diluted earnings per share on profit from operations 75.7 78.5 Adjusted basic earnings per share on profit from operations 66.3 55.6 Adjusted diluted earnings per share on profit from operations 65.6 55.1 11 Dividends paid and proposed 2013 2012 000 000 Declared and paid during the year Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2012: 11.83p per share 2011: 10.74p 5,923 5,362 Interim dividend for 2013: 6.46p per share 2012: 5.87p 3,236 2,939 Less dividends on own shares held by ESOP 17 34 9,142 8,267 Proposed for approval at Annual General Meeting not recognised as a liability at 31 December Equity dividends on ordinary shares: 6,766 Final dividend for 2013: 13.54p per share 2012: 11.83p 5,901 75 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 12 Goodwill Group 2013 2012 Cost and net book value: 000 000 86,390 At 1 January 87,351 Exchange differences 1,897 206 Disposal of subsidiary - 1,167 Acquisition of subsidiaries 19,683 - At 31 December 104,176 86,390 Impairment of goodwill Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to cash generating units CGUs described in note 2.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to each CGU by segment is: 2013 2012 000 000 Marine Support 25,717 23,316 Offshore Oil 40,732 42,230 Specialist Technical 27,468 10,585 Tankships 10,259 10,259 104,176 86,390 The recoverable amount of these units has been assessed based on value in use calculations using cash projections based on financial budgets approved by the Board for the next financial year together with projections derived from those budgets for the following four years.
A terminal value of cash flows beyond that date has been calculated at a growth rate in line with management's long-term expectations for the relevant market.
The key assumptions used in the value in use calculations include gross margin, discount rate, inflation of overheads and payroll and growth rates.
Growth estimates are based on the levels achieved in the current and historic periods adjusted for management expectations of the impact of management actions and the future development of the relevant market.
Short-term growth rates for turnover vary between 2% and 58% which allows for significant growth in project based activities.
These growth rates are considered to be conservative and vary dependant on the market conditions in which the CGU operates.
Direct costs are expected to increase in line with turnover in initial periods before stabilising at a long-term inflationary level of 2%.
Administrative costs are anticipated to increase at 1%.
Payroll inflation reflects the fact that the Group provides specialist services in a competitive market.
Payroll costs are therefore influenced by the need to retain skilled staff.
As a result the initial growth rates for payroll costs range between 2% in mature business to up to 6% for specific posts in businesses located in areas where skilled staff are in short supply.
Discount rates reflect management's estimate of the return required from the business to reflect the cost of funds plus an appropriate risk premium.
This has been determined with reference to the CGU's weighted average cost of capital WACC, and adjusting it for risks specific to each CGU's cash flows.
The range of pre-tax discount rates used is 9.5% to 10.6% 2012: range of 10.2% to 11.2%.
An effective tax rate of 18.4% has been assumed.
Based on the value in use calculations performed no impairment of any of the cash generating units is required.
The key assumptions applied to each CGU are as follows: Marine Support: maximum short-term gross profit growth of businesses of between 4% and 40% with long-term growth of between 2% and 7%, maximum growth in direct costs of 42% with between 2% and 5% increase in the long-term.
Offshore Oil: maximum short-term gross profit growth of between 10% and 20% with long-term growth of 2%, maximum growth in direct costs of 20% with 2% increase in the long-term.
Specialist Technical: maximum short-term gross profit growth of 20% with long-term growth of 2%, maximum growth in direct costs of 17% with 2% increase in the long-term.
Tankships: maximum short-term gross profit growth of 17% with long-term growth of between 1% and 2%, maximum growth in direct costs of 13% with between 1% and 2% increase in the long-term.
Long-term growth has been assumed at a steady market rate of 2% in line with the requirements of IAS 36.
Sensitivity to impairment Sensitivity analysis has been performed to determine the impact of a reasonable change in a key assumption e. g. increase in discount rate by 2%, removal of long-term growth and no impairment issues were identified.
76 Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc 13 Other intangible assets Group Development Intellectual Customer Total costs property relationships 000 000 000 000 Cost At 1 January 2012 4,728 543 1,423 6,694 Additions 2,459 41 - 2,500 Disposal of subsidiary undertaking 1,496 - - 1,496 Exchange differences - 6 6 - At 31 December 2012 5,691 590 1,417 7,698 Additions 1,370 57 3,444 4,871 Disposals 171 - - 171 Exchange differences - 8 153 161 At 31 December 2013 6,890 639 4,708 12,237 Amortisation At 1 January 2012 243 207 407 857 Charge for the period 562 164 276 1,002 Disposal of subsidiary undertaking 408 - - 408 Exchange differences - 3 1 4 At 31 December 2012 397 374 684 1,455 Charge for the period 647 53 799 1,499 Disposals 118 - - 118 Exchange differences - 4 77 81 At 31 December 2013 926 423 1,406 2,755 Net book value at 31 December 2013 5,964 216 3,302 9,482 Net book value at 1 January 2013 5,294 216 733 6,243 Net book value at 1 January 2012 4,485 336 1,016 5,837 The Company has not recognised any intangible assets.
Intangible assets include intellectual property rights and patents and licences acquired by subsidiary companies relating to technology used in the subsidiary's principal operating activities, the fair value of customer relationships acquired and development costs relating to new products or processes.
Intangible assets are amortised evenly over their remaining useful life of between three and twenty years.
The amortisation charge is included in cost of sales in the income statement.
Based on an assessment of value in use there are no indications that any impairment of these assets has arisen during the period.
Impairment provisions In 2012 the Group recognised an impairment provision of 9,232,000 in respect of its fleet of vessels.
The impairment relates to the class of assets referred to as ships in the table above.
The segmental allocation of the provision between the Tankships and Marine Support segments is shown in note 2.
The impairment was calculated based on the estimated value in use of the assets compared to their current carrying value.
Income has been estimated over a period of 5 years being the estimated time required to dispose of the vessels with allowance made for the estimated disposal value of the vessels, less the costs directly attributable to the disposal or scrapping of the asset.
Income has been determined by calculating the most likely performance achievable by the vessels given current expectations of the value of contracts available and the expected market conditions over the period.
The related expenses of operating the vessels reflect the expected changes in costs including labour, insurance and fuel over the period.
These values have then been discounted at a post tax rate of 8.8%.
The rate has been determined based on the after tax weighted average cost of capital of the Group, adjusted for the relative risk profile of the business segment.
78 Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc Property, plant and equipment held under leasing arrangements The carrying value of plant and equipment held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts at 31 December 2013 was 398,000 2012: 1,561,000.
Included in ships are assets with a cost of 5,170,000 2012: 5,275,000 and accumulated depreciation of 4,168,000 2012: 3,714,000 which relate to assets held under operating leases.
Included in property, plant and equipment is aggregate interest capitalised of 1,197,000 2012: 1,285,000.
15 Investment in joint ventures On 19 August 2013 the Group disposed of its 25% equity interest in the ordinary shares of Foreland Holdings Limited Foreland for a gross consideration of 11,425,000.
Further details of the disposal are included in note 17.
On 1 September 2012 the Group acquired an additional 10% interest in Fender Care Malaysia SDN BHD for a consideration of 957,000 which increased the Group's equity interest in the business to 40%.
Goodwill of 720,000 arose on the acquisition of this interest and is included in the investment in joint ventures.
In 2012 the Group paid 168,000 into its Dubai based joint venture, Fendercare Omega LLC, in respect of its 50% equity interest in the company.
The Group has a 45% equity interest in the ordinary shares of Fender Care Nigeria Limited, Silvertide Inc, Asteria Navigation Inc and FCN Limited.
The Group has a 50% equity interest in the ordinary shares of Fender Care Benelux BV and Fender Care Omega Limited.
These joint ventures, which are referred to as the FCM businesses, are marine services companies operating ship to ship transfers principally in the West Africa region and in Northern Europe and Asia.
The Group has a 50% equity interest in the ordinary shares of First Response Marine Pte Ltd FRM.
FRM provides submarine rescue services to the Singapore government under a 20 year service contract which commenced in March 2009.
79 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued Details of the principal joint ventures and associated undertakings are set out on page 106.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities and trading results of these joint venture entities at 31 December 2013 which are accounted for under the equity accounting method, are as follows.
15 Investment in joint ventures continued 2013 2012 000 000 Current assets 18,678 23,877 Non-current assets 24,759 54,890 14,969 Current liabilities 11,212 Non-current liabilities 20,734 56,989 Loans to associate 1,733 1,825 9,467 12,391 Revenue 23,009 22,301 Cost of sales 15,931 14,139 Administrative expenses 2,506 2,602 Profit from operations 4,572 5,560 Finance costs Finance income 4 10 Finance costs 1,713 2,314 Profit before tonnage and income tax 2,863 3,256 Taxation 485 174 2,378 Profit after tax 3,082 Non-controlling interests 9 70 Net profit attributable to equity holders 2,387 3,012 Movement on investment in joint ventures At 1 January 12,391 12,534 Acquisitions - 1,125 Disposals 3,342 - Profit for the period 2,387 3,012 Dividends received 2,337 4,584 Gain arising on the amendment to the concession agreement - 865 Share of fair value gains on cash flow hedges 703 343 Non-controlling interests 16 14 Exchange adjustments 319 232 9,467 At 31 December 12,391 In 2012 Foreland recognised a gain following a deed of amendment to its concession agreement of which the Group's share was 865,000.
Due to the uncertainty relating to its recovery full provision was made in the Group for this amount.
There are no capital commitments or contingent liabilities in respect of the Group's interests in joint ventures.
16 Financial assets Group Available for sale 2013 2012 000 000 At 1 January 2013 1,370 1,370 Acquisition of subsidiary undertaking 8 - 1,378 At 31 December 2013 1,370 Company At 1 January and 31 December 2013 1,368 1,368 Available for sale financial assets represents a 17.2% 2012: 17.2% equity interest in ordinary shares in SEML fide Co-operation Transmanche, an unlisted company incorporated in France, whose main activity is a port and ferry operator.
The Group has a 50% interest in DivexDomeyer GmbH, a company incorporated in Germany which provides in-service support and aftermarket services to the German Navy.
The Group does not actively participate in the operation and control of that business.
Related party transactions with DivexDomeyer GmbH are set out in note 28.
The investments listed above are in unquoted entities whereby the fair value of the shareholding cannot be readily ascertained or measured reliably.
The investments are therefore held at initial cost and are subject to an annual impairment review.
No impairment was required at 31 December 2013 2012: Nil.
80 Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc Investments Company Subsidiary undertakings Shares Loans Total 000 000 000 Cost At 1 January 2012 83,840 129,867 213,707 Exchange adjustments - 436 436 Additions increases 531 78,331 78,862 Repayments - 53,389 53,389 At 31 December 2012 84,371 155,245 239,616 Exchange adjustments - 549 549 Additions increases 5,667 74,368 80,035 Recapitalisations 66,888 66,888 - Repayments - 71,489 71,489 At 31 December 2013 156,926 91,785 248,711 Amount provided At 1 January 2012 445 433 878 Released - 45 45 At 31 December 2012 445 388 833 Released - 40 40 At 31 December 2013 445 348 793 Net book value at 31 December 2013 156,481 91,437 247,918 Net book value at 31 December 2012 83,926 154,857 238,783 A list of principal subsidiary undertakings is included on page 106.
17 Business combinations Details of transactions in the period relating to joint ventures are set out in note 15.
Year ended 31 December 2013 On 5 March 2013 the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Divex Limited and its subsidiaries Divex, for an initial cash consideration of 20,800,000.
The principal activities of Divex are the design, supply and assembly of diving and subsea equipment.
Further contingent consideration is payable of up to 13,000,000 based on the future profitability of both the core commercial diving business and earnings from the sale of saturated diving systems during the five year period ending in December 2017.
Whilst the achievement of these targets is contingent on both the expected size of the market for saturated diving systems and Divex's ability to win a significant proportion of it, management believe that the requirements will be met and have provided in full for the consideration due, having allowed for the impact of the time value of money on the expected dates on which the consideration will be paid.
On 19 August 2013 the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Osiris Marine Services Limited and Osiris Underwater Engineering Services Limited Osiris for an initial consideration of 3,250,000.
The principal activities of Osiris are the supply of diving and subsea services to the renewable energy sector.
Further contingent consideration of up to a maximum of 1,250,000 is payable, linked to future annual profitability targets for the two years ended 30 June 2015.
Management has reviewed its forecasts at the end of December 2013 and concluded that it is unlikely that the minimum target for the year to 30 June 2014 will be achieved.
The contingent consideration payable for that period has therefore not been provided.
Provision has been made for the remaining contingent consideration on the basis of management's current forecasts and this has been adjusted for the time value of money based on the expected date of payment.
The outcome of these forecasts remains uncertain as to the volume, timing and profitablity of available contracts.
The provisional fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired are set out below.
The businesses are expected to benefit from synergies derived from common marketing and distribution bases.
Included in goodwill are certain intangible assets including the anticipated impact on these businesses of distributing their products to existing Group customers, that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured due to their nature.
81 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 17 Business combinations continued Accountng Fair Book policy value value adjustments adjustments Total Divex 000 000 000 000 Customer relationships - - 2,729 2,729 Investments 8 - - 8 Property, plant and equipment 1,267 - - 1,267 Inventories 12,903 - 991 11,912 Trade and other receivables 4,999 - - 4,999 Cash and short-term deposits 6,383 - - 6,383 Trade and other payables 11,698 - 190 11,508 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 51 - - 51 Deferred tax 651 - 1,161 510 Fair value of net assets acquired 14,462 - 767 15,229 Goodwill arising on acquisitions 16,734 31,963 Consideration Cash 20,800 Contingent consideration 11,163 31,963 Accountng Fair Book policy value value adjustments adjustments Total Osiris 000 000 000 000 Customer relationships - - 218 218 Property, plant and equipment 1,564 308 - 1,872 Trade and other receivables 1,841 - - 1,841 Cash and short-term deposits 169 - - 169 Trade and other payables 2,105 534 - 2,639 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 140 - - 140 Deferred tax 72 45 44 71 Fair value of net assets acquired 1,257 181 174 1,250 Goodwill arising on acquisitions 2,685 3,935 Consideration Cash 3,250 Contingent consideration 685 3,935 Trade receivables in the acquired entities comprise gross contracted amounts of 5,349,000.
There is doubt over the collectability of 297,000 of this amount.
On 26 July 2013 the Group acquired the trade and assets of The Underwater Centre Fremantle Pty Limited, a commercial diving training centre.
The consideration of 712,000 related to the acquisition of 241,000 in relation to tangible fixed assets and 497,000 has been treated as an intangible asset representing the value of customer relationships.
Deferred tax of 149,000 has been recognised on the acquisition.
During the year the Group also acquired the trade and assets of a maritime engineering consultancy for a consideration of 119,000, which resulted in goodwill of 116,000.
The Group has identified intangible assets in respect of customer relationships in the various businesses.
These relate to the major customers of acquired businesses in their main markets.
Cash flow forecasts have been calculated over five years being the expected period over which the Group will benefit from the relationships which have been inherited with the acquisitions.
The calculations are based on local management forecasts and have been discounted at rates of between 9% and 15% reflecting the risk factors associated with these cash flows.
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
Acquisition expenses The Group incurred acquisition expenses of 939,000 in relation to these business combinations which have been charged to the income statement and included within administration expenses.
82 Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc Contribution to Group results The overall contribution of the businesses acquired during the period to the Groups profit after tax was 3,524,000 with 35,280,000 being contributed to Group revenues.
Had the business combinations taken place at the start of the financial year the contribution to Group profit from continuing operations for the year would have been 2,759,000 and the revenue from continuing operations would have been 43,385,000.
Disposals Year ended 31 December 2013 On 19 August 2013 the Group disposed of its 25% interest in Foreland Holdings Limited for a gross consideration of 11,425,000.
000 Gross consideration 11,425 Net assets disposed of Investment in joint ventures 3,342 Provision 1,250 Disposal costs 38 Profit on disposal 6,795 On 9 September the Group disposed of the marine leisure business of Fendercare Australia for a gross consideration of 1,395,000 resulting in a loss on disposal of 182,000.
Year ended 31 December 2012 On 31 December the Group disposed of its interests in The Railway Engineering Company Limited TRE for a gross cash consideration of 25,500,000.
TRE develops and manufactures electronic signalling and control equipment for the railway industry.
Net assets disposed of were 3,654,000 resulting in a profit on disposal of 20,896,000 after disposal costs of 950,000.
During the year ended 31 December 2012 TRE contributed revenue of 7,041,000 and after tax profit of 1,764,000 to the Group's result.
18 Inventories Group 2013 2012 000 000 Work in progress 10,360 4,637 Raw materials and consumables 12,137 12,568 Finished goods 23,979 18,857 46,476 36,062 Group 2013 2012 000 000 Inventories stated at net realisable value - - Amount charged to the income statement in the period in respect of inventory write-downs 547 223 Reversal of inventory write-downs 47 - 19 Trade and other receivables Group Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 000 000 000 000 Trade receivables 56,307 59,792 97 130 Amounts owed by group undertakings - - 997 3,470 Amounts owed by joint venture undertakings 1,134 1,265 - 35 Other non-trade receivables 4,878 9,743 1,098 2,213 19,684 317 Prepayments and accrued income 18,119 228 82,003 88,919 2,509 6,076 Construction contracts in progress 9,670 2,486 - - 91,673 91,405 2,509 6,076 At 31 December 2013, the aggregated amount of costs incurred and recognised profits less recognised losses to date under open construction contracts amounted to 29,410,000 2012: 24,432,000.
There are no retentions relating to construction contracts included in trade receivables 2012: nil.
Of the above other non-trade receivables of 115,000 2012: 28,000 are expected to be recovered in more than one year.
Further information on the credit risks relating to trade and other receivables is given in note 26.
83 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Share capital Group and Company Allotted, called up and fully paid 1 Cumulative In thousands of shares 25p Ordinary shares preference shares 2013 2012 2013 2012 In issue at 1 January 50,068 49,925 100 100 Exercise of share options 31 143 - - In issue 31 December 50,099 50,068 100 100 2013 2012 2013 2012 000 000 000 000 Issued share capital 12,525 12,517 100 100 Rights attached to shares The shareholders have the following rights to receive dividends: 1 Cumulative preference shares receive 3.5% per annum on the par value: and 25p Ordinary shares as declared from time to time by the directors.
Shares all carry equal voting rights of one vote per share held.
Neither type of share is redeemable.
In the event of a winding up order the amount receivable in respect of the cumulative preference shares is limited to their nominal value.
The ordinary shareholders are entitled to an unlimited share of the surplus after distribution to the cumulative preference shareholders.
Preference shares are treated as a liability in the balance sheet.
2013 2012 Treasury shares 000 000 154,170 2012: 186,329 ordinary shares of 25p 1,392 1,061 The Company has established an Employee Share Ownership Trust, the James Fisher and Sons plc Employee Share Ownership Trust, in connection with share option and long-term incentive schemes for employees.
These shares are classified as Treasury shares in the accounts of the Group and Company.
The trust has not waived its right to receive dividends.
During the year 31,193 2012: 142,391 ordinary shares with an aggregate nominal value of 7,798 2012: 35,598 were issued under the Companys Executive Share Option Scheme at an option price of 327p per share, 2012: between 142p and 584p giving rise to a total consideration of 102,001 2012: 255,717.
21 Trade and other payables Non-current liabilities Group Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 000 000 000 000 Contingent consideration 12,082 - - - 421 - Accruals and deferred income 743 - 12,503 743 - - Current liabilities Group Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 000 000 000 000 Trade payables 36,659 32,353 1,014 2,493 Amounts owed to group undertakings - - 11,077 13,021 Amounts owed to joint venture undertakings 2,278 3,011 - - Taxation and social security 3,005 2,705 63 148 9,333 2,580 Other payables 6,250 2,062 Accruals and deferred income 42,381 32,450 2,691 3,754 93,656 76,769 17,299 21,478 84 Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc 22 Retirement benefit assets and obligations The retirement benefit obligations included in the Group and Company balance sheets relate to The James Fisher and Sons plc pension fund for Shore Staff, Shore staff : together with the Groups obligations to the Merchant Navy Officers Pension Fund MNOPF, an industry wide scheme which is also accounted for as a defined benefit scheme.
The Company has obligations under the Shore Staff and under the MNOPF scheme, the balance of which relates to its subsidiary, FT Everard and Sons Limited.
The Group has two defined benefit schemes located in Norway.
These are included in the table below at their fair value based on an actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2013.
The valuations of the schemes have been updated to 31 December 2013 by qualified actuaries using agreed assumptions as detailed in the table of assumptions included below.
The Groups obligations in respect of its pension schemes at 31 December 2013 were as follows: Group Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 000 000 000 000 Shore staff pension scheme 9,777 9,695 9,777 9,695 MNOPF pension scheme 13,460 17,428 9,784 8,944 Scantech pension scheme 96 62 - - 23,141 27,061 19,561 18,639 Details of the schemes operated by the Group are as follows: James Fisher and Sons plc pension fund for shore staff The assets of this scheme are held in a separate trustee administered account.
The scheme was closed to new members in October 2001 when the Company changed to a defined contribution scheme for all new members.
The pension cost is assessed in accordance with the advice of professionally qualified actuaries.
These financial statements incorporate the latest full actuarial valuation of the Shore Staff Scheme carried out as at 1 August 2010, rolled forward to 31 December 2013.
The scheme closed to future accrual on 31 December 2010.
During 2012 a Group subsidiary, James Fisher Nuclear Limited secured a contract which required the provision of defined benefits to three transferring employees.
These benefits are provided through the Shore Staff Scheme.
There has been no transfer of past service rights into the scheme.
Contributions to the scheme from the Company amounted to 1,615,000 2012: 1,615,000.
Merchant Navy Officers Pension Fund In 2005 the High Court established that former as well as existing employers are liable to make payments in respect of the funding deficit of the MNOPF.
The Company was informed by the trustees as to the level of annual payments it will be required to make into the fund over a period of ten years commencing October 2005 representing its share of the deficit disclosed in the initial actuarial valuation carried out as at 31 March 2003.
The trustees have also indicated that they may make calls for further contributions in the future, if new deficits arise or if other employers liable for contributions are not able to pay their share.
The MNOPF is valued every three years and further deficits have typically been funded over a ten year period.
In May 2013 the trustees of the scheme concluded the triennial valuation of the scheme as at 31 March 2012.
The Groups share of the revised deficit was 4,163,000 and this has been accounted for in the calculation of its 2013 liability.
Since the Company has no control over the calls for contributions made from the MNOPF, it has determined that the fund should be accounted for as a defined benefit scheme and its liability recognised accordingly.
The share of the Group and Company in the MNOPF as advised by the trustees is Group 3.0% 2012: 3.3% and Company 1.4% 2012: 1.7%.
Disclosures relating to this scheme are based on these allocations.
The liability recognised represents the discounted value of committed cash flows.
Information supplied by the Trustees of the MNOPF has been reviewed by the Companys actuaries.
The principal assumption in the review is the discount rate on the schemes liabilities which is 4.65% 2012: 4.45%.
The disclosures below relate to the Groups share of the assets and liabilities within the MNOPF.
Actuarial assumptions The last actuarial valuations performed have been updated to 31 December 2013 by the Companys actuary.
The schemes assets are stated at their market values on the respective balance sheet dates.
The overall expected rates of return on assets reflect the risk free rate of return plus an appropriate risk premium based on the nature of the relevant asset category.
The principal assumptions used in updating the latest valuations for each of the schemes were: 85 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Retirement benefit assets and obligations continued 2013 2012 Inflation long-term rate after adjustment for short-term fluctuations % 3.4 2.9 Rate of general long-term increase in salaries - shore staff % N A N A Rate of increase of pensions in payment - shore staff % 3.3 - 3.4 2.5 - 2.9 Discount rate for scheme liabilities % 4.65 4.45 Expected rates of return on assets % 4.65 4.45 Post retirement mortality: years Shore staff scheme Current pensioner at 65 - male 21.0 20.1 Current pensioner at 65 - female 23.3 22.7 Future pensioner at 65 - male 22.8 21.9 Future pensioner at 65 - female 25.2 24.5 ScanTech Produkt Current pensioner at 65 - male 21.8 20.1 Current pensioner at 65 - female 25.0 22.7 Future pensioner at 65 - male 22.4 21.9 Future pensioner at 65 - female 26.1 24.5 The post retirement mortality assumptions allow for expected increase in longevity.
The current disclosures above relate to assumptions based on longevity in years following retirement at the balance sheet date, with future being that relating to a member who is currently 45 years old.
Investments The schemes assets do not include any of the Groups own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or used by the Group.
Restatement of pension costs As referred to in note 1, the Group has adopted the requirements of the amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits from 1 January 2013.
The long-term employee benefit costs are now measured by applying the discount rate previously applied only to the gross liability to the net pension deficit.
The tables below have been adjusted to reflect the restatement of prior period data.
Sensitivities The key sensitivities on the major schemes may be summarised as follows Shore staff scheme Key measure Change in assumption Change in Deficit Discount rate Decrease of 0.25% Increase by 3.1% Rate of inflation Increase by 0.25% Increase by 2.8% Rate of mortality Increase in life expectancy of 1 year Increase by 3.0% MNOPF Key measure Change in assumption Change in Deficit Discount rate Decrease of 0.25% Increase by 0.8% 86 Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc The assets and liabilities of the schemes at 31 December are: As at 31 December 2013 Group Company Shore Scantech Shore staff MNOPF Produkt Total staff MNOPF Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Equities 20,712 4,356 - 25,068 20,712 2,050 22,762 Gilts corporate bonds 23,611 7,836 232 31,679 23,611 3,687 27,298 Property - 954 - 954 - 449 449 Other investments 4,821 61,185 - 66,006 4,821 28,794 33,615 Cash net current assets 151 2,471 - 2,622 151 1,163 1,314 Fair value of scheme assets 49,295 76,802 232 126,329 49,295 36,143 85,438 Present value of scheme liabilities 59,072 90,262 136 149,470 59,072 45,927 104,999 Net pension liabilities recognised in the balance sheet 9,777 13,460 96 23,141 9,777 9,784 19,561 As at 31 December 2012 Group Company Shore Scantech Shore staff MNOPF Produkt Total staff MNOPF Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Equities 18,481 10,279 - 28,760 18,481 5,268 23,749 Gilts corporate bonds 28,819 7,790 329 36,938 28,819 3,993 32,812 Property - 1,807 - 1,807 - 926 926 Other investments - 51,685 - 51,685 - 26,491 26,491 Cash net current assets 67 2,383 - 2,450 67 1,221 1,288 Fair value of scheme assets 47,367 73,944 329 121,640 47,367 37,899 85,266 Present value of scheme liabilities 57,062 91,372 267 148,701 57,062 46,843 103,905 Net pension liabilities recognised in the balance sheet 9,695 17,428 62 27,061 9,695 8,944 18,639 Expense recognised in the income statement included in administrative expenses and finance costs Year ended 31 December 2013 Group Company Shore Shore staff MNOPF Scantech Total staff MNOPF Total 000 000 Produkt 000 000 000 000 Current service cost 27 - 17 44 27 - 27 Settlement gains - 610 - 610 - - - Expenses 141 - 2 143 141 - 141 Interest cost on benefit obligation 2,460 3,993 5 6,458 2,460 2,047 4,507 Return on scheme assets recorded in interest 2,062 3,291 8 5,361 2,062 1,687 3,749 566 92 16 674 566 360 926 Actual return on plan assets 4,027 n a - 4,027 n a 87 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Retirement benefit assets and obligations continued Year ended 31 December 2012 Group Company Shore Shore staff MNOPF Scantech Total staff MNOPF Total 000 000 Produkt 000 000 000 000 Current service cost 30 - 50 80 30 - 30 Expenses 103 - - 103 103 - 103 Interest cost on benefit obligation 2,705 4,165 13 6,883 2,705 2,135 4,840 Return on scheme assets recorded in interest 2,193 3,274 16 5,483 2,193 1,678 3,871 645 891 47 1,583 645 457 1,102 Actual return on plan assets 4,359 N A - 4,359 N A Movements in the benefit liability during the year Year ended 31 December 2013 Group Company Shore Scantech Shore staff MNOPF Produkt Total staff MNOPF Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 As at 1 January 2013 9,695 17,428 62 27,061 9,695 8,944 18,639 Expense recognised in the income statement 566 92 16 674 566 360 926 Contributions paid to scheme 1,654 8,487 - 10,141 1,654 1,689 3,343 Remeasurement gains and losses 1,170 4,425 54 5,541 1,170 2,169 3,339 Effect of movement in exchange rates - - 4 4 - - - 9,777 13,458 96 23,139 9,777 9,784 19,561 Year ended 31 December 2012 Group Company Shore Scantech Shore staff MNOPF Produkt Total staff MNOPF Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 As at 1 January 2012 10,840 19,219 74 30,133 10,840 9,866 20,706 Expense recognised in the income statement 645 891 47 1,583 645 457 1,102 Contributions paid to scheme 1,641 3,031 50 4,722 1,641 1,559 3,200 Remeasurement gains and losses 149 349 131 69 149 180 31 Effect of movement in exchange rates - - 2 2 - - - 9,695 17,428 62 27,061 9,695 8,944 18,639 Reameasurement gains and losses are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
The Directors do not consider it to be possible to determine how much of the pension scheme deficit recognised on transition to IFRS and taken directly to equity of 12.8m in the Group and Company is attributable to actuarial gains and losses since inception of those pension schemes.
Consequently the directors are unable to determine the amount of actuarial gains and losses that would have been recognised in the Group and Company statements of comprehensive income before January 2004.
Defined contribution schemes The Group operates a number of defined contribution schemes.
The pension charge for the year for these arrangements is equal to the contributions paid and was 4,486,000 2012: 3,162,000.
During the year the Company contributed 306,000 2012: 327,000 into defined contribution schemes.
23 Share based payments The Company operates an Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS and a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP in respect of directors and certain employees.
Further details on these schemes are included in the Directors Remuneration report on pages 30 to 41.
The Company also operates a Savings Related Save as You Earn SRSOS scheme for eligible employees which is HM Revenue and Customs approved.
Executive share option scheme 1995 1995 ESOS Share options up to a maximium limit of four times base salary may be awarded to board directors and senior executives.
The exercise price is determined at the date of grant and may be no lower than the market price on the date of grant.
The options vest if the increase in the Companys diluted earnings per ordinary share over a continuous period of three years exceeds inflation and is at least 9%.
A failure to meet this target increase during the performance period causes the options to lapse.
The contractual life of each option granted is ten years.
There are no cash settlement alternatives.
The last award made under this scheme was on 10 March 2003.
Executive share option scheme 2005 2005 ESOS Share options up to a maximum limit 100% of base salary may be awarded to board directors and senior executives.
The exercise price is equal to the market value at the date of grant.
The options vest depending on the Companys total shareholder return relative to the constituents of the FTSE Small Cap index excluding Investment Trusts.
If performance over a three year period is in the upper quartile, 100% of the options will vest.
For options granted before 31st December 2012 if performance is at the bottom of the median, second quartile 40% will vest.
For options granted thereafter 25% will vest at median level.
The amount vesting will decrease on a straight line basis between the median and upper quartile.
If performance is below the median quartile no shares will vest.
A failure to meet these conditions during the performance period causes the options to lapse.
Awards were made under this scheme on 9 April 2013.
Savings related share option scheme SRSOS All employees, subject to the discretion of the remuneration committee, may apply for share options under an employee save as you earn plan which may from time to time be offered by the Company.
In order to comply with HM Revenue and Customs requirements an individuals participation is limited so that the aggregate price payable for shares under option at any time does not exceed the statutory limit.
Options granted under the plans will normally be exercisable if the employee remains in employment and any other conditions set by the remuneration committee have been satisfied.
Options are normally exercisable at the end of the related savings contract but early exercise is permitted in certain limited circumstances.
The performance period will not normally be less than three and a half years or greater than seven and a half years.
Awards were made under this scheme on 7 May 2013.
Long term incentive plan LTIP Share options up to a maximium of 100% of base salary may be awarded to main board directors and senior executives.
The exercise price of the option is nil.
In respect of awards granted up to 31 December 2008, the options vest if the increase in the Companys diluted earnings per ordinary share over the performance period is at least equal to the rate of inflation plus 9%.
The contractual life of each option granted is three years.
91 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 23 Share based payments continued For options granted since 31 December 2008 the options vest in full if the increase in diluted earnings per ordinary share over the performance period is at least equal to the rate of inflation plus 18%.
If the increase is between 9% and 18% above the rate of inflation the amount of shares vesting reduces on a pro rata basis until at growth of 9% one third of the options granted will vest.
Failure to reach the 9% plus the rate of inflation threshold results in all options lapsing.
Awards were made under this scheme on 8 April 2013.
The expense recognised for share based payments relating to equity settled share based payments transactions is 1,205,000 2012: 1,192,000.
The Company has granted conditional awards in the form of options over shares or conditional rights to have shares transferred to certain employees under the LTIP scheme approved at the Annual General Meeting over 476,317 2012: 583,426 ordinary shares of 25p each.
The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise prices WAEP of and movements in share options during the year.
In order to avoid distortion of the WAEP options having an exercise price of nil have been shown separately.
For the share options outstanding at 31 December 2013, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 3 years and 10 months 2012: 4 years and 2 months.
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was 5.40 2012: 3.44.
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year was 3.27 - 10.50 2012: 3.27 - 6.73.
For the share options outstanding at 31 December 2013, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 4 years and 10 months 2012: 5 years and 2 months.
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was 5.74 2012: 3.04.
The fair value of equity settled share based payments has been estimated as at date of grant using statistical models which will most appropriately determine the fair value of each type of scheme.
The Black Scholes model has been used for the SRSOS and the LTIP schemes, the binomial model for the 1995 ESOS and the Monte Carlo model for the 2005 ESOS.
92 Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc The inputs to the models used to determine the valuations fell within the following ranges: 2013 2012 LTIP Dividend yield % 2.00% 2.75% Expected life of option years 3 3 Share price at date of grant 10.25 6.05 2005 ESOS 2.00% Dividend yield % 2.75% Expected life of option years 6.5 6.5 Share price at date of grant 10.46 5.72 Expected share price volatility % 30% 35% SRSOS Dividend yield % 2.00% 2.75% Expected life of option years 3.26-7.26 3.26-7.26 Share price at date of grant 9.63 5.95 Expected share price volatility % 30% 35% Risk free interest rate % 0.45%-0.96% 0.61%-1.62% The expected share price volatility which is based on historic volatility, is the range within which the continuously compounded annual rate of return on the Companys shares is expected to fall approximately two thirds of the time.
The were no loans secured against the assets of the Group or Company in the current or prior period.
Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts Group The Group uses finance leases in respect of certain items of plant and equipment.
The minimum future lease payments due under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are as follows: Group 2013 2012 000 000 Future minimum payments due: Within one year 154 317 Within two to five years 84 98 238 415 Less: finance charges allocated to future periods 27 19 211 396 Present value of minimum lease payments is analysed as follows Within one year 71 94 Within two to five years 140 302 211 396 Company The Company does not have any outstanding finance lease commitments.
25 Reconciliation of net debt Net debt comprises interest bearing loans and borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
At 31 December 2013 the Group had 68,800,000 2012: 65,600,000 of undrawn committed facilities none of which expire within twelve months.
The Group is required to maintain covenant ratios in respect of net debt to earnings before interest and depreciation and amortisation EBITDA, net interest costs to earnings before interest EBIT and EBIT and operating lease costs to net interest and operating lease costs.
The Group has met its covenant ratios for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The Directors have prepared forecasts of the cash flows for the subsequent eighteen month period which indicate that taking into account the factors noted above the Group will meet its covenant requirements for this period.
The Group has a borrowing covenant which restricts the total amount that it is able to borrow under revolving credit facilities to a maximum of 150,000,000 2012: 150,000,000.
The Group manages its capital structure through maintaining close relationships with its bankers who provide the majority of funds used for acquisitions.
Capital is monitored by measuring the gearing ratio which is a measure derived from net debt divided by capital.
Net debt comprises interest bearing loans and borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
Capital represents net equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent.
Return on capital employed is also monitored.
The Groups dividend policy is based on the expected growth in sustainable income streams after making provision for the retention of capital to invest in growth and acquisitions.
In evaluating growth investment opportunities the Group has a target of 15% pre tax return on the capital invested.
2013 2012 000 000 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 78,160 81,361 Less cash and cash equivalents 23,982 18,339 Net debt 54,178 63,022 Equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent 182,904 163,469 Gearing ratio 29.6% 38.6% The reasons for the change in gearing over the previous year are discussed in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 21.
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: Credit risk Liquidity risk Interest rate risk Foreign exchange risk Details of the Groups financial instrument risk management objectives, strategies and policies are set out on pages 1 to 21 of the Strategic report.
Further information on these risks is presented below and is included in other disclosures throughout these consolidated financial statements.
95 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 26 Financial instruments continued Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
These arise principally from the Groups receivables from customers.
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: Group Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 000 000 000 000 Available for sale financial assets 1,378 1,370 1,368 1,368 Receivables 84,655 79,970 2,598 4,635 Cash and cash equivalents 23,982 18,339 2,846 48 Interest rate swaps used for hedging: Assets 547 - 547 - Forward exchange contracts used for hedging: Assets 866 790 866 790 111,428 100,469 8,225 6,841 There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer and the industry and country in which each customer operates.
The Group has a number of large customers including Government agencies in the UK and overseas, major oil companies and other multinational corporations.
The ten largest customers of the Group accounted for approximately 30% of Group revenue 2012: 35%.
No customer accounted for more than 8% of Group revenue.
In 2012 one customer, a multinational company in the Oil and Gas sector, accounted for 12% of revenue.
New customers are subject to creditworthiness checks and credit limits are subject to approval by senior management.
Goods are sold subject to retention of title clauses so that in the event of non-payment the Group may have a secured claim.
Trade receivables are non interest-bearing and are generally on 30 to 60 days terms.
At 31 December the value of trade debtors outstanding was: Group Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Gross Allowance Gross Allowance Gross Allowance Gross Allowance 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Not past due 48,426 - 45,221 - 97 - 130 - Past due 13,018 1,074 17,428 899 - - - - 61,444 1,074 62,649 899 97 - 130 - The Group establishes an allowance for unrecoverable amounts movements on which are as follows: Group Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 000 000 000 000 Balance at 1 January 2012 899 1,432 - - Exchange differences 68 8 - - 297 On acquisition of subsiduaries - - - Provided in the year 494 378 - - Recoveries 197 123 - - Write offs 351 780 - - 1,074 899 - - The Group considers that the trade receivables that have not been provided against and are past due by more than 30 days are still collectible based on historic payment behaviour and extensive analysis of underlying customers credit ratings.
Based on historic default rates, the Group believes that apart from the amounts included in the table above, no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade receivables.
No other receivables are considered to be past due.
Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group manages its cash resources to ensure that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities as they fall due but in a manner designed to maximise the benefit of those resources whilst ensuring the security of investment resources.
The Group forecasts the profile of its cash requirements on a monthly basis and ensures that sufficient facilities are available to meet peak requirements which occur at predictable times in the year.
The Group manages the maturity profile of its borrowings by maintaining a regular dialogue with its lenders and ensuring that it commences the renegotiation of facilities sufficiently early to allow a comprehensive review of its requirements before completion.
96 Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc The Groups revolving credit facilities extend over several accounting periods and fall due for renewal in different accounting periods ensuring that the Group negotiations with individual lenders follow an orderly process which does not expose the group to the possibility of a significant reduction in available facilites in a single period.
At 31 December 2013, the Group has available 68,800,000 of undrawn committed bank facilities 2012: 65,600,000.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments: 31 December 2013 Group Contractual More Carrying cash Within 1 1 - 2 2 - 5 than amount flows year years years 5 years 000 000 000 000 000 000 Non-derivative financial liabilities Unsecured bank loans 77,949 83,426 2,747 47,305 24,744 8,630 Finance lease liabilities 211 211 140 43 28 - Trade and other payables 98,639 98,639 98,639 - - - Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps used for hedging 94 1,723 577 323 808 15 Forward exchange contracts used for hedging Outflow 13 3,041 3,041 - - - Inflow 866 17,218 17,218 - - - 175,852 169,822 87,926 47,671 25,580 8,645 These derivative financial instruments are accounted for at fair value and it is not deemed appropriate to allocate the cash flows across the maturity categories 31 December 2012 Group Contractual More Carrying cash Within 1 1 - 2 2 - 5 than amount flows year years years 5 years 000 000 000 000 000 000 Non-derivative financial liabilities Unsecured bank loans 80,965 88,957 3,029 17,198 58,800 9,930 Finance lease liabilities 396 396 317 69 10 - Trade and other payables 72,711 72,711 72,711 - - - Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps used for hedging 1,686 2,719 1,071 576 870 202 Forward exchange contracts used for hedging Inflow 790 28,500 28,500 - - - 151,596 136,283 48,628 17,843 59,680 10,132 97 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 26 Financial instruments continued 31 December 2013 Company Contractual More Carrying cash Within 1 1 - 2 2 - 5 than amount flows year years years 5 years 000 000 000 000 000 000 Non-derivative financial liabilities Unsecured bank loans 94,621 100,098 19,419 47,305 24,744 8,630 Trade and other payables 15,904 15,904 15,904 - - - Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps used for hedging 6 1,490 344 323 808 15 Forward exchange contracts used for hedging Outflow 13 - - - - - Inflow 866 17,218 17,218 - - - 109,666 100,274 18,449 47,628 25,552 8,645 These derivative financial instruments are accounted for at fair value and it is not deemed appropriate to allocate the cash flows across the maturity 31 December 2012 Company Contractual More Carrying cash Within 1 1 - 2 2 - 5 than amount flows year years years 5 years 000 000 000 000 000 000 Non-derivative financial liabilities Unsecured bank loans 114,880 122,872 36,944 17,198 58,800 9,930 Trade and other payables 21,486 21,486 21,486 - - - Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps used for hedging 1,427 1,943 554 318 870 201 Forward exchange contracts used for hedging Inflow 790 28,500 28,500 - - - 134,149 117,801 30,484 17,516 59,670 10,131 Foreign exchange risk The Group incurs foreign currency risks on sales, purchases and borrowings denominated in currencies other than Sterling.
The Groups principal transactional exposures are to the US Dollar and Euro.
The principal exposures arising from its net investment overseas is to the Norwegian Kroner.
As explained in the Strategic report on page 18, the Groups objectives in managing its structural currency exposures are to maintain a low cost of borrowings and to minimise the risk of adverse currency movements to its cash flow.
Gains and losses arising from the Groups net investments overseas are recognised in the statement of other comprehensive income.
A change in Angolan legislation effective from 1 July 2013 required in-country monetary transfers to be transacted in local currency.
Exchange control regulations can potentially impact the transferability of cash balances in certain countries of operation.
The Group uses forward exchange contracts to hedge its transactional exposures.
Most forward exchange contracts have maturities of less than one year after the balance sheet date.
Forward exchange contracts which qualify as effective cash flow hedges are included at their fair value in the hedging reserve and in current assets or short-term liabilities until the earlier of their maturity or the date the transaction to which they relate is recognised at which point they are transferred to the income statement.
Changes in the level of exchange rates will have an impact on consolidated earnings.
The following table shows the impact on earnings of a 5% strengthening in the exchange rate in the Groups key currencies against Sterling.
The obverse movements would be of the same magnitude.
These amounts have been calculated by applying changes in exchange rates to the Groups estimated foreign currency revenues and costs and its net investment in entities which do not use Sterling as their base currency and include the impact of forward exchange contracts.
2013 2012 Equity Profit or loss Equity Profit or loss 000 000 000 000 US Dollar 158 42 110 1,668 Norwegian Kroner 325 280 690 273 Euro 3,485 3,183 2,765 2,323 UAE Dirham 277 157 100 395 Singapore Dollar 315 1,172 425 1,039 Australian Dollar 233 559 113 559 Malaysian Ringgit 40 124 111 8 2,603 5,517 1,442 6,265 Interest rate risk The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge exposure to fluctuations in interest rates.
The interest rate profile of the Groups financial assets and liabilities are set out in the table below.
The Group has used interest rate swaps to convert interest rates on certain borrowings from floating rates to fixed rates.
Group Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 000 000 000 000 Fixed rate instruments Financial liabilities 100 100 100 100 Variable rate instruments Financial assets 23,982 18,339 2,846 48 Financial liabilities 77,949 80,965 94,621 114,880 53,967 62,626 91,775 114,832 The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge exposure to fluctuations in interest rates.
The Group uses interest rate swaps to convert interest rates on certain borrowings from floating rates to fixed rates, details of the interest rate swaps are shown in the table below.
Where hedging criteria are met the Group classifies interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges and states them at fair value.
Over the longer term permanent changes in interest rates would have an impact on consolidated earnings.
At 31 December 2013 a general increase of one percentage point would have had the following impact: 2013 2012 Equity Profit or loss Equity Profit or loss 000 000 000 000 Variable rate instruments - 540 - 626 Interest rate swap - 398 - 453 Cash flow sensitivity - 142 - 173 99 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 26 Financial instruments continued Fair values Set out below is a comparison by category of the carrying amounts and fair values of all the Groups financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements.
Group 2013 2012 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value Note 000 000 000 000 Assets carried at fair value Forward exchange contracts - cash flow hedges 866 866 790 790 866 866 790 790 Assets carried at amortised cost Receivables 19 84,655 84,655 79,970 79,970 Cash and cash equivalents 23,982 23,982 18,339 18,339 1,378 1,378 Other investments 16 1,370 1,370 110,015 110,015 99,679 99,679 Liabilities carried at fair value Forward exchange contracts - cash flow hedges 13 13 - - Interest rate swaps - cash flow hedges 94 94 1,686 1,686 Contingent consideration 12,082 12,082 - - 12,189 12,189 1,686 1,686 Liabilities carried at amortised cost Unsecured bank loans 24 77,949 74,071 80,965 81,053 Trade and other payables 21 86,557 86,557 72,711 72,711 Finance leases 24 211 227 396 397 Preference shares 20 100 100 100 100 164,817 160,955 154,172 154,261 Company Assets carried at fair value Forward exchange contracts - cash flow hedges 866 866 790 790 866 866 790 790 Assets carried at amortised cost Receivables 19 2,598 2,598 4,635 4,635 Cash and cash equivalents 2,846 2,846 48 48 Other investments 16 1,368 1,368 1,368 1,368 6,812 6,812 6,051 6,051 Liabilities carried at fair value Forward exchange contracts - cash flow hedges 13 13 - - Interest rate swaps - cash flow hedges 6 6 1,427 1,427 19 19 1,427 1,427 Liabilities carried at amortised cost Overdrafts 24 16,672 16,672 33,915 33,915 Unsecured bank loans 24 77,949 74,071 80,965 81,053 Trade and other payables 21 15,904 15,904 21,486 21,486 Preference shares 20 100 100 100 100 110,625 106,747 136,466 136,554 Fair value has been determined by reference to the market value at the balance sheet date or by discounting the relevant cash flows using current interest rates for similar instruments.
The fair value of the financial assets has been assessed by the Directors with reference to the current prospects of the investments and risks associated with those prospects.
100 Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc Fair value hierarchy The Group classifies fair value measurement using a fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of inputs used in making measurements of fair value.
The fair value hierarchy has the following levels: a Level 1 - Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
b Level 2 - Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and c Level 3 - Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
The fair value of interest rate swap contracts and forward exchange contracts are calculated by management based on external valuations received from the Groups bankers and is based on forward exchange rates and anticipated future interest yields respectively.
Hedges - Group and Company Fair value hedges At 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 the Group did not have any outstanding fair value hedges.
101 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 26 Financial instruments continued Cash flow hedges At 31 December 2013 the Group and Company held forward currency contracts designated to hedge future commitments in US Dollars and Euro.
The terms of the contracts are as follows: Exchange Fair value Maturity rate 000 Sell US$ 27,100,000 January 2014 - August 2014 1.5367 866 Buy Eur 3,637,040 January 2014 - July 2014 1.1956 9 At 31 December 2012 the Group and Company held forward currency contracts designated to hedge future commitments in US Dollars.
The terms of the contracts are as follows: Exchange Fair value Maturity rate 000 Sell US$ 45,260,000 January 2013 - February 2014 1.5881 232 The foreign exchange contracts have been negotiated to match the expected profile of receipts.
At 31 December 2013 these hedges were assessed to be highly effective and an unrealised loss of 347,000 2012: 2,325,000 relating to the hedging instruments is included in equity.
Interest rate swaps The Group and Company entered into interest rate swap contracts in respect of sterling denominated debt to swap a variable rate liability for a fixed rate liability.
A subsidiary company, James Fisher Norway AS, has entered into an interest rate swap in respect of a loan secured against the new build property included in its balance sheet.
On disposal of this business this instrument was reassigned to the external borrowings of James Fisher Norway AS.
These instruments have been allocated against the Group and Company debt in the tables shown above.
Details of the contracts and their fair values at 31 December are set out below: Amount Fair value 2013 2012 Fixed rate 2013 2012 000 000 Maturity % 000 000 Sterling interest rate swaps 41,500 36,500 30 January 2014 to 30 January 2019 1.03% - 3.71% 6 1,305 NOK000 NOK000 80,000 88 NOK interest rate swaps 80,000 30 June 2014 3.86% 259 Derivative Financial Instruments not qualifying as hedges At 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 the Group did not hold any derivative financial instruments which did not qualify for hedge accounting.
27 Commitments and contingencies Operating leases The future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases at 31 December are as follows: Group Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 000 000 000 000 Within one year 15,877 16,374 56 67 After one year but not more than five years 24,392 28,271 133 122 After five years 12,256 9,944 27 49 52,525 54,589 216 238 The Group has entered into leases on certain properties, vessels, plant and motor vehicles.
These leases have a life of between one and ten years and are renewable at the option of the lessee.
As noted in the contingent liabilities section below, certain of the lease liabilities in relation to bareboat charters are guaranteed by a member of the Group other than the entity holding the charter.
Capital commitments At 31 December capital commitments for which no provision has been made in these accounts amounted to: Group Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 000 000 000 000 2,439 - 2,914 - The amount in respect of 2013 includes 890,000 in respect of a new warehouse.
There were no significant individual items in 2012.
102 Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc Contingent liabilities a In the ordinary course of the Companys business, counter indemnities have been given to bankers in respect of custom bonds, foreign exchange commitments and bank guarantees.
b A Group VAT registration is operated by the Company and 27 group undertakings in respect of which the Company is jointly and severally liable for all amounts due to HM Revenue and Customs under the arrangement.
c A guarantee has been issued by the Group and Company to charter parties in respect of obligations of a subsidiary, James Fisher Everard Limited, in respect of charters relating to seven vessels.
The charters expire between 2014 and 2016. d Subsidiaries of the Group have issued performance and payment guarantees to third parties with a total value of 6,850,000 2012: 3,017,000. e The Trustees of the Merchant Navy Officers Pension Fund MNOPF have indicated that under the terms of the High Court ruling in 2005 which established the liability of past employers to fund the deficit on the Post 1978 section of the MNOPF, they may make calls for further contributions in the future if additional actuarial deficits arise or if other employers liable for contributions are not able to pay their share.
The Group and Company remains jointly and severally liable for any future shortfall in recovery of the deficit.
f The Group has give an unlimited guarantee to the Singapore Navy in respect of the performance of First Response Marine Pte Ltd, its Singapore joint venture, in relation to the provision of submarine rescue and related activities.
Further details of this joint venture are given in note 15. g In the normal course of business, the Company and certain subsidiaries have given parental and subsidiary guarantees in support of loan and banking arrangements.
h In 2011 the High Court established that past employers as well as current employers of the Merchant Navy Ratings Pension Fund MNRPF would be required to fund any deficit on the MNRPF.
The trustees of the scheme are currently consulting with past and present employers regarding the method to be used to calculate the liability and based on this the extent of any liability individual employers may have.
Further legal adjudication will be required before the nature and extent of the liabilities in respect of individual employers can be established.
The Trustees have confirmed that they believe that the Group has a liability in respect of this scheme.
Due to the uncertainty associated with the timing and calculation of this liability the directors have concluded that it would not be appropriate to make a provision at this time.
28 Related party transactions Transactions with related parties Company The Company has entered into transactions with its subsidiary undertakings primarily in respect of the provision of accounting services, finance and the provision of share options to employees of subsidiaries.
The amount outstanding from subsidiary undertakings to the Company at 31 December 2013 was 92,782,000 2012: 158,715,000.
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings by the company at 31 December 2013 totalled 11,077,000 2012: 13,021,000.
The Company has had no expense in respect of bad or doubtful debts of subsidiary undertakings in the year 2012: nil.
Foreland Shipping Limited The Group provided payroll and management services to Foreland Shipping Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Foreland Holdings Limited.
A fee is charged for the provision of this service which is included in Group revenue.
The Group disposed of its 25% interest in Foreland Holdings on 19 August 2013.
Group FCM businesses As set out in Note 15 the Group has interests of between 30% and 50% in several joint ventures providing ship to ship transfer services in West Africa, Northern Europe and Asia through its wholly owned subsidiary, Fender Care Marine Services Limited.
First Response Marine The Group holds through its James Fisher Marine Services subsidiary JFMS a 50% interest in First Response Marine Pte Ltd FRM.
Included in the contract is the provision of a submarine rescue vessel acquired by FRM from JFMS.
FRM subcontracts part of the provision of the submarine rescue service to JFMS and its subsidiary James Fisher Singapore Pte Ltd. JFMS has also provided a loan to FRM of 1,733,000 to support its day to day operations.
The loan which is included in the Group balance sheet as part of the investment in joint ventures is interest bearing and is repayable at the end of the project.
Interest charged in the period amounted to 115,000 2012: 118,000.
Dividends received or receivable during the period included in the results of the Group are 688,000 2012: 532,000.
In May 2012 a loan of 325,000 was advanced from James Fisher Angola Limitada to Bouclier Limitada a company controlled by the Groups joint venture partner.
This loan which is unsecured and does not carry interest, represents an advance payment in respect of the borrowers future entitlement to dividends from James Fisher Angola Limitada.
This amount remains outstanding at 31 December 2013.
103 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Related party transactions continued Details of the transactions carried out with related parties are shown in the table below: Purchases Amounts Amounts Services to Sales to from owed by owed to related related related related related parties parties parties parties parties 000 000 000 000 000 Foreland Shipping Limited 2013 354 - - - - 2012 485 - - 35 - FCM businesses 2013 - 4,159 1,192 474 2,273 2012 - 1,979 1,086 568 3,005 First Response Marine 2013 2,676 - 5 660 5 2012 2,375 - 29 662 6 DivexDomeyer 2013 - 397 - 171 - No provision for bad debts has been made in respect of these balances 2012: nil.
No bad debts arose during the period relating to these transactions 2012: nil.
The Group through its Divex Limited subsidiary has a 50% stake in DivexDomeyer, an entity which provides in service support and aftermarket services to customers in Germany.
Details of equipment sales to this entity are set out in the table above.
All transactions with related parties are priced on an arms length basis on terms equivalent to those provided to wholly external parties.
The Company was responsible for the provision of services to Foreland Shipping Limited but does not engage in any other transactions with parties who are not wholly owned subsidiaries.
29 Post balance sheet events On 28 January 2014 the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Subsea Vision Limited Subsea, for cash consideration of 2,500,000.
Subsea owns and operates remotely operated vehicles providing underwater surveys, inspections and construction support to the oil and gas industry including floating, production, storage and offtake vessels.
Subsea will be included in the Groups marine support division reporting into Fendercare.
Further disclosures relating to the acquisition as required by IFRS 3 - Business Combinations, have not been included in this report as there has been insufficient time to obtain and review the relevant financial information from the company and calculate the accounting treatment and disclosures for this business combination.
