ANNUAL REPORT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS & ACCOUNTS 66 2013 2013 67 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the 53 weeks ended 2 February 2013 The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES to affect its future development, performance and position are GROUP COMPANY JD Sports Fashion Plc, the 'Company' is a company set out in the Executive Chairmans Statement and Financial 53 weeks to 52 weeks to 53 weeks to 52 weeks to incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
and Risk Review on pages 19 and 28 respectively.
In addition, 2 February 28 January 2 February 28 January The financial statements for the 53 week period ended details of financial instruments and exposures to interest rate, 2013 2012 2013 2012 Note 000 000 000 000 2 February 2013 represent those of the Company and its foreign currency, credit and liquidity risks are outlined in note 23. subsidiaries together referred to as the 'Group'.
The Parent CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES As at 2 February 2013, the Group had net cash balances of Company financial statements present information about the profit for the period 41,242 49,349 47,874 52,190 45,636,000 2012: 60,295,000 with available committed Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
Share of results of joint venture 17 - 1,068 - - borrowing facilities of 75,000,000 of which nil 2012: nil Income tax expense 9 13,875 18,093 21,901 18,259 The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board has been drawn down see note 22.
With 75,000,000 Financial expenses 8 1,503 1,048 1,019 637 of Directors on 17 April 2013. available, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to Financial income 7 645 646 683 719 manage its business risks successfully despite the current Basis of preparation Depreciation and amortisation of non-current assets 3 30,328 24,353 17,125 14,488 uncertain economic outlook.
European Union law EU LAW IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 Exchange differences on translation 10 764 158 - After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable requires that the financial statements of the Group are profit on disposal of Canterbury 4 691 - 600 - expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate prepared and approved in accordance with International Loss on disposal of non-current assets 4 212 1,148 255 631 resources to continue in operational existence for the Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted Other exceptional items 4 4,495 8,751 - 4,522 foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the IFRSs.
The financial statements have been prepared on the Increase in inventories 23,551 14,397 3,546 5,107 going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
basis of the requirements of adopted IFRSs that are endorsed Increase in trade and other receivables 12,393 2,780 54,851 42,418 by the EU and effective at 2 February 2013.
Adoption of new and revised standards Decrease increase in trade and other payables 5,902 11,952 10,957 10,995 The Company has chosen to present its own results under From the 29 January 2012, the Group has applied the Interest paid 1,503 1,048 1,019 637 adopted IFRSs and by publishing the Company Financial amendment to IAS 12 Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Income taxes paid 12,232 25,084 11,100 23,454 Statements here, with the Group Financial Statements, the Assets.
The Amendment introduces an exception to the current NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 34,728 68,907 6,776 20,343 Company is taking advantage of the exemption in s408 of the measurement principles of deferred tax assets and liabilities CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income where investment properties are measured using the fair value statement and related notes.
Interest received 645 646 683 719 model in accordance with IAS 40 Investment Property.
This has had no significant impact on the consolidated results or Proceeds from sale of non-current assets 977 171 55 5 The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, financial position of the Group.
Disposal costs of non-current assets 143 312 51 249 rounded to the nearest thousand.
Acquisition of intangible assets 13 5,540 1,711 5,540 1,500 A number of new standards, amendments to standards and The financial statements have been prepared under the Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 14 38,178 43,846 15,823 32,748 interpretations have been issued during the 53 week period historical cost convention, as modified for financial assets and ended 2 February 2013 but are not yet effective, and therefore Acquisition of investment property 15 - - 677 - liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through have not yet been adopted by the Group.
Acquisition of non-current other assets 5,350 1,903 1,372 482 the Consolidated Income Statement and also put options held Acquisition of investments 18 - - 2,860 33,411 by the non-controlling interests.
Amendment to IFRS 1 'Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income OCI ' is effective for accounting Cash consideration of acquisitions 5,875 26,106 - 1,000 The preparation of financial statements in conformity with periods beginning July 2012.
The amendment requires an Cash acquired with acquisitions 1,208 4,019 - - adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, entity to separate items included in OCI between those that Overdrafts acquired with acquisitions 175 3,326 - - estimates and assumptions that affect the application of may be reclassified to profit and loss in the future from those Receipt of Canterbury intercompany debt 12 22,699 - 22,699 - policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income that would never be reclassified to profit and loss.
The estimates and associated assumptions are Cash in Canterbury on disposal 12 5,888 - - - standard is not expected to have a significant impact on the based on historical experience and various other factors that Dividend received from joint venture - 7,217 - 7,217 consolidated results or financial position of the Group.
are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES 35,620 65,151 2,886 61,449 results of which form the basis of making the judgements about Annual improvement to IFRSs - 2009-2011 Cycle is applicable CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily from January 2013.
If endorsed, the Group will apply as Repayment of interest-bearing loans and borrowings 245 16,755 - - apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from appropriate where the key improvements relevant to the Group these estimates.
Repayment of finance lease liabilities 593 1,459 - - relate to IFRS 1 Presentation of financial statements and IAS 34 Interim financial reporting.
Acquisition of non-controlling interest 12 40 - 40 - The judgements, estimates and underlying assumptions are Sale of subsidiary shares to non-controlling interest 12 - 2 - 2 reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting IFRS 13 'Fair Value Measurement' is applicable from January Equity dividends paid 28 12,408 11,338 12,408 11,338 estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is 2013.
The standard consolidates the existing fair value Dividends paid to non-controlling interest in subsidiaries 338 140 - - revised and in any future periods affected.
measurement guidance in different IFRSs with a single definition of fair value, a framework for measuring fair value NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES 13,624 29,690 12,448 11,336 The accounting policies set out below have unless otherwise and disclosures about fair value measurements.
This standard NET DECREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 31 14,516 25,934 8,558 52,442 stated been applied consistently to all periods present in these is not expected to have a significant impact on the consolidated CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE BEGINNING OF THE PERIOD 31 61,611 87,545 28,762 81,204 financial statements and have been applied consistently by all results or financial position of the Group.
Foreign exchange gains on cash and cash equivalents 31 867 - 158 - Group entities.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 31 46,228 61,611 20,046 28,762 ANNUAL REPORT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS & ACCOUNTS 68 2013 2013 69 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The Group continues to monitor the potential impact of other III.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED new standards and interpretations which may be endorsed by Depreciation is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement Adoption of new and revised standards continued the European Union and require adoption by the Group in II.
Joint ventures over the estimated useful life of each part of an item of future reporting periods.
Joint ventures are entities over which the Group has joint property, plant and equipment.
The estimated useful New standards on consolidation and related standards, control based on a contractual arrangement.
The results and economic lives are as follows: which are effective for accounting periods beginning January The Group does not consider that any other standards, assets and liabilities of joint ventures are incorporated in the 2014.
The following standards replace the existing accounting amendments or interpretations issued by the IASB, but not consolidated financial statements using the equity method of Freehold land not depreciated for subsidiaries and joint ventures, and make limited yet applicable, will have a significant impact on the accounting.
Investments in joint ventures are carried in the amendments in relation to associates: financial statements.
Long leasehold and 2% per annum on a straight line basis Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at cost and freehold properties adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Group's share of t '34 h$POTPMJEBUFE 'JOBODJBM 4UBUFNFOUTh Prior period restatement the net assets.
"Losses of the joint venture in excess of the Improvements to short life of lease on a straight line basis t '34 h PJOU ""SSBOHFNFOUTh The comparative Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Group's interest in it are not recognised."
leasehold properties and Consolidated Statement of Changes In Equity as at t '34 h%JTDMPTVSF PG OUFSFTUT JO 0UIFS &OUJUJFTh 28 January 2012 has been restated to reflect the completion Computer equipment 3 - 4 years on a straight line basis III.
"Transactions eliminated on consolidation t ""NFOENFOUT UP '34 '34 BOE '34 JG FOEPSTFE in the period to 2 February 2013 of the initial accounting in Intragroup balances, and any unrealised income and expenses t ""4 h4FQBSBUF 'JOBODJBM 4UBUFNFOUT SFWJTFE h Fixtures and fittings 5 - 7 years, or length of lease if respect of the acquisitions of JD Sprinter Holdings 2010 arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in shorter, on a straight line basis t ""4 h OWFTUNFOUT JO ""TTPDJBUFT BOE PJOU 7FOUVSFT SL acquired in the period to 28 July 2012 and to reflect preparing the consolidated financial statements."
2011 revised ' the completion of the initial accounting in respect of Motor vehicles 25% per annum on a reducing Blacks Outdoor Retail Limited acquired in the period to balance basis Property, plant and equipment With the exception of future acquisition of subsidiaries and 28 January 2012. joint ventures it is not anticipated that these standards will have Investment property I.
Owned assets Adjustments made to the provisional calculation of the fair a significant Impact on the financial statements, as no change Investment property, which is property held to earn rentals, is Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less value of assets and liabilities acquired, as reported at 28 to the current consolidation conclusions is expected to be stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Where parts January 2012, in the period to 2 February 2013 have resulted required.
IFRS 10 indicates that control is the determining losses.
Investment property is depreciated over a period of of an item of property, plant and equipment have different factor in deciding whether an entity should be consolidated in in the following changes: 50 years on a straight line basis, with the exception of freehold useful economic lives, they are accounted for as separate items.
land, which is not depreciated.
The Group has elected not to For the acquisition of JD Sprinter Holdings 2010 SL the II.
Leased assets revalue investment property annually but to disclose the fair Amendments to IFRS 7 'Offsetting Financial Assets and measurement adjustments made to the fair values of the net value in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Assets funded through finance leases and similar hire purchase Financial Liabilities' is applicable from January 2013.
This assets reduced total assets by 449,000, reduced total contracts are capitalised as property, plant and equipment amendment introduces new disclosure required for financial liabilities by 289,000 and the resulting change on total equity The fair value is based on an external valuation prepared by where the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and assets and liabilities which have been offset in the statement of was 160,000.
This adjustment has also decreased persons having the appropriate professional qualification rewards of ownership.
Upon initial recognition, the leased financial position and or are subject to master netting non-controlling interest by 160,000. and experience.
asset is measured at the lower of its fair value and the present arrangements or similar agreements, but is not anticipated to For the acquisition of Blacks Outdoor Retail Limited the value of the minimum lease payments.
Future instalments have a significant impact on the financial statements.
Business combinations measurement adjustments made to the fair values of the net under such leases, net of financing costs, are included within All business combinations are accounted for by applying the Amendments to IAS 32 'Offsetting Financial Assets and assets increased total assets by 204,000, increased total interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
Financial Liabilities' is applicable from January 2014. liabilities by 204,000 and the resulting change on total equity Rental payments are apportioned between the finance element, This amendment clarifies the application of the offsetting rules, was nil.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition which is included in finance costs, and the capital element however this is not anticipated to have a significant impact on method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which The impact of these adjustments on the net assets is shown in which reduces the outstanding obligation for future instalments the financial statements.
control is transferred to the Group.
Control is the power to note 11. so as to give a constant charge on the outstanding obligation.
govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to IFRS 9 'Financial Instruments' is applicable from 2015.
Basis of consolidation obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, the All other leases are accounted for as operating leases and the If endorsed, this standard will simplify the classification of Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that rental costs, are charged to the Consolidated Income financial assets for measurement purposes, but is not I.
Statement on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
anticipated to have a significant impact on the Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists Contingent rental payments, where payment is conditional on financial statements.
The consideration transferred does not include amounts related when the Group has the power to govern the financial and the Group's operating performance derived from the lease to the settlement of pre-existing relationships.
Such amounts IFRS 17 'Leases' may be introduced with a proposed guide operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its item e. g. turnover levels, are expensed in the period incurred.
are generally recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
If endorsed, this standard will significantly affect activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are Legal fees and other costs associated with the acquisition of a the presentation of the Group financial statements with all presently exercisable are taken into account.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with leasehold interest are capitalised within non-current other leases apart from short term leases being recognised as either the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the assets.
These costs are amortised over the life of the lease.
finance leases or 'other than finance' leases with a connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
consolidated financial statements from the date that control corresponding liability being the present value of the Lease incentives are credited to the Consolidated Income commences until the date that control ceases.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair Statement on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are value at the acquisition date.
If the contingent consideration is identified separately from the equity attributable to holders of classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is Rental income from operating leases where the Group is the the parent.
Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of accounted for within equity.
Otherwise, subsequent changes to lessor is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of those interests at the date that control commences and the the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in the relevant lease.
attributable share of changes in equity subsequent to that date.
ANNUAL REPORT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS & ACCOUNTS 70 2013 2013 71 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED II.
Other intangible assets Net cash interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Other intangible assets represent brand licences, brand names Net cash consists of cash and cash equivalents together with Intangible assets Financial instruments and purchased fascia names.
other borrowings from bank loans and overdrafts, other loans, Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the loan notes, finance leases and similar hire purchase contracts.
Goodwill Brand licences are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation Groups Statement of Financial Position when the Group Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition and impairment losses.
Amortisation of brand licences is Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the of subsidiaries.
charged to the Consolidated Income Statement over the term value less attributable transaction costs.
Financial assets are derecognised when the to the licence expiry on a straight line basis.
recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial assets For acquisitions on or after 31 January 2010, the Group amortised cost with any difference between cost and expire or are transferred.
Financial liabilities are derecognised measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: Brand names acquired as part of a business combination are redemption value being recognised in the Consolidated when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, stated at fair value as at the acquisition date less accumulated Income Statement over the period of the borrowings on an cancelled or expires.
t UIF GBJS WBMVF PG UIF DPOTJEFSBUJPO USBOTGFSSFE QMVT amortisation and impairment losses.
Brand names separately effective interest basis.
t UIF SFDPHOJTFE BNPVOU PG BOZ OPO DPOUSPMMJOH JOUFSFTUT JO acquired are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and Trade receivables UIF BDRVJSFF QMVT impairment losses.
The useful economic life of each purchased Trade and other payables Trade receivables are recognised at amortised cost less brand name is considered to be finite.
Amortisation of brand t JG UIF CVTJOFTT DPNCJOBUJPO JT BDIJFWFE JO TUBHFT UIF GBJS Trade and other payables are non-interest-bearing and are impairment losses.
A provision for the impairment of trade names is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement over WBMVF PG UIF FYJTUJOH FRVJUZ JOUFSFTU JO UIF BDRVJSFF MFTT stated at their cost.
receivables is established when there is objective evidence that their useful life on a straight line basis.
t UIF OFU SFDPHOJTFE BNPVOU PG UIF JEFOUJGJBCMF BTTFUT BDRVJSFE the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according Foreign currency translation and liabilities assumed to the original terms.
Significant financial difficulties of the Separately identifiable fascia names acquired are stated at fair Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or value as at the acquisition date less accumulated impairment When the excess is negative, negative goodwill is recognised into sterling at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the financial reorganisation and default or delinquency in losses.
The useful economic life of each purchased fascia immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is name is considered separately.
Where the Directors believe foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rate of impaired.
The movement in the provision is recognised in the that there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is exchange at the reporting date.
Exchange differences in Consolidated Income Statement.
asset is expected to generate a net cash flow, the specific fascia included in the determination of the profit loss on disposal.
monetary items are recognised in the Consolidated Income name is not amortised but is subject to an impairment review Non-current other assets Statement.
In respect of business acquisitions that occurred from on an annual basis or more frequently if there is an indicator 1 February 2004 to 30 January 2010, goodwill represents that the fascia name is impaired.
Key money Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the net of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the Monies paid in certain countries to give access to retail Investments in subsidiary undertakings fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
locations are capitalised within non-current assets.
Key money and joint ventures liabilities of the acquiree.
When the excess was negative is stated at historic cost less impairment losses.
These assets negative goodwill, it was recognised immediately in the In the Companys accounts all investments in subsidiary On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group's are not depreciated as past experience has shown that the key Consolidated Income Statement as an exceptional item.
undertakings and joint ventures are stated at cost less overseas operations are translated into sterling at the rate of money is fully recoverable on disposal of a retail location and Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue provisions for impairment losses.
exchange at the reporting date.
Income and expenses are there is deemed to have an indefinite useful economic life but of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurred in translated at the average exchange rate for the accounting will be impaired if evidence exists that the market value is less Changes in ownership interest without a loss of control connection with business combinations were capitalised as period.
Foreign currency differences are recognised in Other than the historic cost.
Gains losses on key money from the part of the cost of the acquisition.
In accordance with IAS 27 'Consolidated and Separate Comprehensive Income and are presented in the foreign subsequent disposal of these retail locations are recognised in Financial Statements' 2008, upon a change in ownership currency translation reserve.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 February 2004, goodwill is interest in a subsidiary without a loss of control, the carrying included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the Derivative financial instruments amounts of the controlling and non-controlling interests are II.
Deposits amount recorded under previous GAAP.
The classification and adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its Money paid in certain countries as deposits to store landlords accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred subsidiary.
Any difference between the amount by which the exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising as protection against non-payment of rent, is capitalised within prior to 1 February 2004 has not been reconsidered in non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the from operational, financing and investment activities.
preparing the Groups opening adopted IFRS balance sheet consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or at 1 February 2004. and attributed to the owners of the parent.
Acquisitions or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
A provision for the impairment of these deposits is established disposals of non-controlling interests are therefore accounted However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment when there is objective evidence that the landlord will not for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and are accounted for as trading instruments.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units repay the deposit in full.
no goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions.
'CGUs' and is tested annually for impairment and whenever Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair Associated transaction costs are accounted for within equity.
Legal fees there is an indication that the goodwill may be impaired.
value and remeasured at each period end.
The gain or loss on Legal fees and other costs associated with the acquisition of a The CGUs used are the store portfolios and distribution Inventories remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the leasehold interest are capitalised within non-current other companies acquired.
The recoverable amount is compared Consolidated Income Statement.
However, where derivatives Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net assets and amortised over the life of the lease.
to the carrying amount of the CGU including goodwill.
qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain realisable value.
Cost is based on the weighted average The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
Provisions are made for obsolescence, Cash and cash equivalents on value-in-use calculations.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call Interest rate swaps are recognised at fair value in the deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank Consolidated Statement of Financial Position with movements overdrafts are included as a component of cash and cash in fair value recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement equivalents for the purpose of the Consolidated Statement of for the period.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the Cash Flows, as these are used as an integral part of the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to Groups cash management.
terminate the swap at the reporting date, taking into account current interest rates and the respective risk profiles of the swap counterparties.
ANNUAL REPORT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS & ACCOUNTS 72 2013 2013 73 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Exceptional items Pensions 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Items that are, in aggregate, material in size and or unusual The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes, the Put options held by non-controlling interests Income tax expense or infrequent in nature, are included within operating profit assets of which are held separately from those of the Group in The Group recognises put options over non-controlling and disclosed separately as exceptional items in the Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and independently administered funds.
Obligations for contributions interests in its subsidiary undertakings as a liability in the Consolidated Income Statement.
to the defined contribution schemes are recognised as an Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at the present expense in the Consolidated Income Statement when incurred.
The separate reporting of exceptional items, which are I.
Current income tax value of the estimated exercise price of the put option.
presented as exceptional within the relevant category in the Critical accounting estimates and judgements Upon initial recognition, and for subsequent changes on Current income tax expense is calculated using the tax rates Consolidated Income Statement, helps provide an indication of remeasurement of the liability, a corresponding entry is made which have been enacted or substantively enacted by the The preparation of financial statements in conformity with the Groups underlying business performance.
The principal to other equity.
reporting date, adjusted for any tax paid in respect of adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, items which will be included as exceptional items are: prior years.
estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies Hedging of monetary assets and liabilities and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and tPTT QSPGJU PO UIF EJTQPTBM PG OPO DVSSFOU BTTFUT II.
Deferred tax Where a derivative financial instrument is used to hedge the expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based t 1SPWJTJPO GPS SFOUBMT PO POFSPVT QSPQFSUZ MFBTFT foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset or Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences on historical experience and various other factors that are liability, no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss t NQBJSNFOU PG QSPQFSUZ QMBOU BOE FRVJQNFOU between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results on the hedging instrument is recognised in the Consolidated financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation of which form the basis of making the judgements about t NQBJSNFOU PG OPO DVSSFOU PUIFS BTTFUT Income Statement.
The following temporary differences are carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily t NQBJSNFOU PG HPPEXJMM CSBOE OBNFT BOE GBTDJB OBNFT not provided for: apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from Provisions t NQBJSNFOU PG BWBJMBCMF GPS TBMF JOWFTUNFOUT these estimates.
The judgements, estimates and assumptions t PPEXJMM OPU EFEVDUJCMF GPS UBY QVSQPTFT A provision is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment t NQBJSNFOU PG JOWFTUNFOU QSPQFSUZ Financial Position when the Group has a present legal or t 5IF JOJUJBM SFDPHOJUJPO PG BTTFUT PS MJBCJMJUJFT UIBU BGGFDU OFJUIFS to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities are t 1SPGJU MPTT PO EJTQPTBM PG TVCTJEJBSZ VOEFSUBLJOHT constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is more accounting nor taxable profit discussed below: t FHBUJWF HPPEXJMM likely than not that an outflow of economic benefits will be t Differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent I. Impairment of goodwill required to settle the obligation and the obligation can be t #VTJOFTT SFTUSVDUVSJOH BOE CVTJOFTT DMPTVSF SFMBUFE DPTUT that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future estimated reliably.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is allocated to the t %JWJEFOET SFDFJWFE GSPN KPJOU WFOUVSF The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the Within the onerous lease provision, management have t BJOT MPTTFT BSJTJOH PO DIBOHFT JO PXOFSTIJQ JOUFSFTU realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and synergies of the business combination from which goodwill provided against the minimum contractual lease cost less where control has been obtained liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by arose.
In the case of retail acquisitions, goodwill is allocated to potential sublease income for vacant stores.
For loss making the reporting date.
groups of cash-generating units, being portfolios of stores, Financial income trading stores, provision is made to the extent that the lease is whereas for acquisition of distribution businesses, goodwill is Financial income comprises interest receivable on funds deemed to be onerous.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is allocated to the individual distribution company acquired.
Financial income is recognised in the Consolidated probable that future taxable profits will be available against The cash-generating units used to monitor goodwill and test it Within the onerous contracts provision, management make Income Statement on an effective interest method.
which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced for impairment are therefore the store portfolios and provisions where the expected benefits to be derived from a to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax distribution companies.
Financial expenses contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting the benefit will be realised.
Financial expenses comprise interest payable on interestThe recoverable amount is the higher of the value in use and Impairment bearing loans and borrowings.
Financial expenses are the fair value less the costs to sell.
The recoverable amounts of Revenue recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement on an The carrying amounts of the Groups assets other than these cash-generating units are determined based on value-inRevenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration effective interest method.
inventories and deferred tax assets are reviewed annually to use calculations.
The use of this method requires the estimation received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
of future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing goods and services provided in the normal course of business, An impairment review is performed on individual operation of the cash-generating unit and the choice of a net of discounts and sales related taxes.
A CGU for the purposes of suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value.
property, plant and equipment impairment reviews is an See note 13 for further disclosure on impairment of goodwill In the case of goods sold through the retail stores and trading individual store or a collection of stores where the cash flows and review of the key assumptions used.
websites, revenue is recognised when goods are sold and the are not independent.
In respect of goodwill, the cashtitle has passed, less provision for returns.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment generating units used to monitor goodwill and test for experience is used to estimate and provide for such returns at and non-current other assets impairment are the store portfolios and distribution companies.
Retail sales are usually in cash, by debit In respect of fascia names, the cash-generating units used to Property, plant and equipment and non-current other assets are card or by credit card.
monitor the fascia name and test for impairment are the reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances relevant store portfolios.
In respect of brand licenses, the indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or a cashIn the case of goods sold through the distribution businesses, cash-generating units used to monitor the brand licenses and generating unit is not recoverable.
The recoverable amount is revenue is recognised when goods are sold and the title has test for impairment are the relevant operating cash flows the greater of the fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
passed less a provision for credit notes.
Distribution sales are relating to these licenses.
In respect of brand names, an either settled by cash received in advance of the goods being Impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at dispatched or made on agreed credit terms.
estimation of future sales with a suitable royalty rate applied is each reporting period date for any indications that the loss has used to test for impairment.
If any such impairment exists then decreased or no longer exists.
An impairment loss is reversed if the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
Impairment losses there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would be held net of depreciation if no impairment had been realised.
