ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation been recognised for the asset in previous years.
After The financial statements of the Company have been such a reversal, the depreciation charge is adjusted in prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, future periods, to allocate the assets revised carrying IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006, amount, less any residual value, over its remaining applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
financial statements have been prepared on the going-concern basis, using historical cost convention, Hedging except for the revaluation of financial instruments.
The Company adopts hedge accounting which means that the effective portion of the changes in the fair value The accounting policies which follow set out those of the derivatives is dealt with in other comprehensive policies which apply in preparing the financial statements income.
Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective for the year ended 28 July 2013. portion would be recognised immediately in the income statement.
Important estimates and judgements Estimates and judgements are based on historical Taxation experience and other factors, including expectations of Significant judgement is required to determine the future events which are believed to be reasonable and provision for taxes, as the tax treatment for some constitute managements best judgement at the date of transactions cannot be fully determined until a formal the financial statements.
Actual experience may differ resolution has been reached with the tax authorities.
Complex areas on judgement or Tax benefits are not recognised until it is probable that estimates involving sums which are significant to the the benefit will be obtained.
Deferred tax Impairment of property, plant and equipment Deferred tax assets and liabilities require managements The Company determines whether a trading pub should judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised.
be impaired by comparing its net book value with future In particular, significant consideration is given to the cash flows value in use, having made certain timing and level of future taxable income and any future assumptions about sales, costs and profit and applying tax-planning strategies.
a pre-tax discount rate for future years of 10%.
Segmental reporting Pubs and pub sites which the Company intends to sell, The Company operates one type of business pubs in the or might sell, are impaired if the expected net sale United Kingdom.
Given the immaterial size of the proceeds fair value are less than the book value.
Companys hotel business, this has not been separately disclosed as a business segment.
Fair value less the costs of selling the assets is determined using external and internal estimates Exceptional items of the value of the Companys pubs.
The Company presents, on the face of the income statement, those material items of income and expense The value in use is calculated using the estimated which, because of the nature and magnitude of the event earnings and cash flows derived by management giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow estimates and applying a suitable pre-tax discount rate shareholders to better understand the elements of to these cash flows.
financial performance in the year.
This helps to facilitate comparison with previous years and to better assess At each reporting date, the Company assesses whether trends in financial performance.
Property, plant and equipment Any changes in the level of forecast earnings or cash Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed flows, the discount rate applied to those or the estimate cost, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in sale proceeds fair value could give rise to an additional in value.
Cost of assets includes acquisition costs, as well as other If a previously recognised impairment loss is reversed, directly attributable costs in bringing the asset into use.
the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis, over the exceed the carrying amount which would have been estimated useful life of the asset as follows: determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss 36 J D WETHERSPOON PLC ACCOUNTING POLICIES Freehold land is not depreciated.
selling price, less any costs of disposal.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving or damaged inventory, Freehold and long-leasehold buildings are depreciated where appropriate.
to their estimated residual values over 50 years.
Provisions Short-leasehold buildings are depreciated over the Provisions are recognised when the Company has a lease period.
present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of resources Equipment, fixtures and fittings are depreciated over will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable three to 10 years.
estimate can be made of the obligations amount.
Unopened properties are not depreciated until such time Revenue recognition as economic benefits are derived.
Revenue recognised at the time of sale is the value of bar, food, slot machine and hotel room sales, after deducting Profits and losses on disposal of property, plant and discounts and sales-based taxes.
equipment reflect the difference between the net selling price and the carrying amount at the date of disposal and Leases are recognised in the income statement.
Leases where the Company assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement finance leases.
Assets acquired under finance leases are in those expense categories consistent with the function capitalised at the lower of their fair value and the present of the impaired asset.
value of future lease payments.
The corresponding liability is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease Intangible assets payable.
Finance charges included in lease payments are Intangible assets are carried at cost, less accumulated charged as an expense to the income statement, and the amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
asset depreciation is charged in line with the accounting policy for property, plant and equipment.
Intangible assets with a finite life are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful life, Leases where the lessor retains substantially all of the risks as follows: and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
If the operating lease is subject to fixed Computer software three to 10 years uplifts over the term of the lease, rental payments are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis, The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed over the period of the lease, in line with adopted annually for impairment, in case there has been an event accounting standards.
If the operating lease is subject to or change in circumstances indicating that the carrying open-market rents, rental payments are charged at the value may not be recoverable.
Lease premiums The Company also has contingent rentals payable, based Payments made on entering into or acquiring leaseholds on turnover.
These are charged to operating profit at the which are accounted for as operating leases represent higher of minimum contractual obligations under the prepaid lease payments.
These are amortised on a agreements or based as a percentage of turnover.
straight-line basis, over the lease term to the break clause.
Lease premiums are disclosed as other non-current assets.
Lease incentives Lease incentives are recognised as a reduction of rental Assets held for sale expense to the break clause.
These are amortised on a Where the value of an asset will be recovered through a straight-line basis.
sale transaction, rather than continuing use, the asset is classified as held for sale.
Assets held for sale are valued Borrowing costs at the lower of book value and fair value, less any costs Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the of disposal, and are no longer depreciated.
period in which they are incurred, unless the requirements by the adopted accounting standards for the capitalisation Inventories of borrowing costs relating to assets are met.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is calculated on the basis of first in, Income taxes first out, with net realisable value being the estimated Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 37 ACCOUNTING POLICIES amount expected to be recovered from, or paid to, the other receivables and cash and cash equivalents on the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws which balance sheet.
are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Receivables Other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary carried at amortised cost less an allowance for any differences arising between the tax bases of assets and uncollectible amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial made, when collection of the full amount is no longer statements, with the following exceptions: probable.
Bad debts are written off, when identified.
Where the temporary difference arises from an asset Cash and cash equivalents or liability in a transaction which, at the time of the Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet transaction, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term or loss.
For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the deposits as defined above.
Bank overdrafts are shown extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be within current financial liabilities on the balance sheet.
available against which the deductible temporary differences, carried-forward tax credits or tax losses can Financial liabilities be utilised.
The Company classifies its financial liabilities as other financial liabilities.
The Company currently has no Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured liabilities which would fall outside of this category, with at the tax rates which are expected to apply when the the exception of interest-rate swaps which are described related asset is realised or liability settled, based on tax below in the section dealing with hedging and are rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the classified as fair value through profit and loss.
Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity, if it relates to items which are credited Other financial liabilities are measured at fair value on or charged to equity.
Otherwise, income tax is recognised initial recognition and subsequently measured at in the income statement.
amortised cost, using the effective-interest method.
Free cash flow Trade and other payables The calculation of free cash flow is based on the net cash Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair generated by business activities after funding interest, value and subsequently at amortised cost, using the corporation tax, all reinvestment in information effective-interest method.
technology, head office and pubs trading at the start of the period and the purchase of own shares under the Bank loans and borrowings employee share-based plan.
Interest-bearing bank loans and other borrowings are recorded initially at fair value of consideration received Financial instruments net of direct issue costs.
Borrowings are subsequently Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the date recorded at amortised cost, with any difference between on which the Company becomes party to the contractual the amount initially recorded and the redemption value provisions of the instrument giving rise to the asset recognised in the income statement over the period of or liability.
the bank loans, using the effective-interest method.
Financial assets Bank loans and loan notes are classified as current The Company classifies its financial assets as loans and liabilities, unless the Company has an unconditional right receivables.
The Company has no assets which would fall to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months into a category outside of loans and receivables.
after the balance sheet date.
Loans and receivables Derivative financial instruments and Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets hedging activities with fixed or determinable payments which are not Derivative financial instruments used by the Company quoted in an active market.
They are included in current are stated at fair value on initial recognition and at assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months subsequent balance sheet dates.
These are classified as non-current assets.
Loans and receivables comprise Hedge accounting is used only where, at the inception of 38 J D WETHERSPOON PLC ACCOUNTING POLICIES the hedge, there is formal designation and The cost of the awards in respect of these plans is documentation of the hedging relationship, it meets the measured by reference to the fair value at the date at Companys risk-management objective for undertaking which they are granted and is amortised as an expense the hedge and it is expected to be highly effective.
In valuing these transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than Interest-rate swaps market conditions linked to the price of the shares of Interest-rate swaps are classified as hedges where they the Company.
hedge exposure to cash flow variability in interest rates.
The Company currently has no other share-based For interest-rate swaps, the effective portion of the gain transactions.
or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement within fair value gain loss on financial Standards, amendments and interpretations derivatives.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to effective in the current year, but not relevant the income statement only when the hedged transaction to the Company: is assessed to be ineffective when considering the Companys forecast debt levels for the period of time for Amendment to IAS 12 Income taxes on deferred tax which the swaps are in place.
Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements on other comprehensive income Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options Standards and interpretations which are not yet are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from effective and have not been early adopted by the proceeds.
the Company: Foreign currencies Amendment to IAS 19 Employee benefits Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are Amendment to IFRS 1 First time adoption, recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at the date of on government loans transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities are translated at Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: the year-end exchange rates, with the resulting exchange Disclosures, on assetand liability-offsetting differences taken to the income statement.
Annual improvements 2011 IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements Retirement benefits IFRS 11 Joint arrangements Contributions to personal pension schemes are IFRS 12 Disclosures of interest in other entities recognised in the income statement in the period in IFRS 13 Fair value measurement which they fall due.
All contributions are in respect IAS 27 Separate financial statements of a defined contribution scheme.
IAS 28 Associates and joint ventures IFRIC 20 Stripping costs in the production phase of a Dividends surface mine Dividends recommended by the board, but unpaid at each period end, are not recognised in the financial The above standards and interpretations are not expected statements until they are paid in the case of the interim to have a significant impact on the Companys results or dividend or approved by shareholders at the annual financial position.
general meeting in the case of the final dividend.
Changes in net debt Changes in net debt are both the cash and non-cash movements of the year, including movements in derivative financial instruments, of finance leases, borrowings, cash and cash equivalents.
Share-based charges The Company has an employee share incentive plan which awards shares to qualifying employees: there is also a deferred bonus scheme which awards shares to directors and senior managers, subject to specific performance criteria.
