Supplementary Information Mining ore reserves and mineral resources Year ended 31 December 2013 Ore reserves and mineral resources appropriate to an Indicated Resource level of confidence but is applied to Measured Resource categories for the sake of estimation methods presenting average values for silver across the Company.
Kazakhmys Mining The Republic of Kazakhstan inherited the classification system and Kazakhmys have informed IMC that the mature mines in the estimation methods for minerals established by the Former Soviet Zhezkazgan Region will continue to operate but are not expected Union FSU.
Updated Regulations for the Classification of Nonto generate positive economic returns under their current ferrous Metals Reserves became law in Kazakhstan in 2006.
The reserves at these mines have therefore practice, this means that the statements of reserves and resources been removed from the tabulation of the Companys Ore developed by Kazakhmys and the mining plans to which they relate Reserves.
A separate tabulation is however presented of Non must be submitted for approval to the corresponding committees JORC Compliant Ore Reserves which shows the tonnage and of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies for which grade of minerals available for mining at these mines.
adherence to the standardized national system of reserves and The by-product gold, silver and molybdenum grades for Bozshakol resources estimation is mandatory.
are only considered to be estimated to an Inferred Resource level Mineral deposits are classified according to their degree of geological of accuracy.
complexity into one of three deposit categories for copper deposits, Generally, at Kazakhmys mines other than in Zhezkazgan, the active which determine the density of exploration sampling and the balance reserve is divided into respective categories and the total of proportions and classifications of GKZ reserves that must be C1 plus A and B categories are assigned to Measured Mineral estimated.
As part of the exploitation licence for each mineral deposit, Resource and C2 category is assigned to Indicated Mineral Resource.
a set of Conditions for Estimation of Reserves are prepared by a Conversion of Measured Mineral Resource to Proved Ore Reserve Kazakhstan licenced design institute and submitted for approval by the and Indicated Mineral Resource to Probable Ore Reserve is made by State.
The Conditions for each deposit specify the minimum thickness the application of appropriate modifying factors for loss and dilution.
for exploitation of the ore body and cut-off grades, plus special Another important consideration is the level of planning and legal considerations which may apply where the conditions for mineral approval for the exploitation of a particular reserve block.
For extraction are exceptional or present difficulties.
operating mines, Mineral Resources have been converted to Ore Reserves and resources have traditionally been estimated by Reserves where the reserve block can be exploited from existing Kazakhmys according to the FSUs Classification and Estimation capital development shafts, declines, haulages, open pit push-back Methods for Reserves.
It is apparent that there is a growing trend etc.
or where a feasibility study for the construction of new capital towards greater flexibility and discussion with state authorities with development has been completed.
respect to resource estimation methods.
This has been reflected in The assessment of Inferred Resources for Kazakhmys is the increased use of computers and associated software by incomplete.
The mines do not keep records of prognosticated Kazakhmys in maintaining records about reserves at the operating reserves as defined in Kazakhstan, categories P1, P2 and P3, mines and using databases linked to modelling software to assist in which may include material that could be considered equivalent to exploration and preliminary resource estimation.
IMC recognises JORC category Inferred Resources.
Some Inferred Resources are this as an important step to achieve verifiable and internally shown in the tabulations where the competent person has consistent estimates.
deemed that the degree of confidence in the estimate is IMC has reviewed the reserves statements of Kazakhmys and has appropriate to that category.
presented them in accordance with the criteria required to meet The foregoing tabulations show new projects in addition to operating JORC standards.
Guidelines on the Alignment of Russian minerals mines.
Projects, for the purpose of this report, were defined at the reporting standards and the CRIRSCO Template were published outset by Kazakhmys and include greenfield sites and brownfield sites during 2010 as a joint initiative of the Committee for Mineral near to existing mines.
New projects require that feasibility studies Reserves International Reporting Standards CRIRSCO and the have been completed and that appropriate legal approvals have been Russian Federal Government Agency State Commission on granted before reserves can be included in the statement.
The guidelines have been used to align Code now specifies that a Pre-feasibility Study is the minimum level categories of reserves C2, C1, B and A with appropriate Mineral of engineering design required before a Mineral Resource can be Resource categories Measured, Indicated and Inferred.
The role converted to an Ore Reserve.
of the JORC Competent Person, however, remains as being responsible for any estimate that is reported.
These estimates form the basis for the process of presenting the reserves in accordance with JORC compliant criteria.
All reserves Mineral Resources, by definition, must have reasonable prospects quoted in the following tables are discounted for ore losses and for eventual economic extraction.
In general, therefore, the total dilution and refer to estimates of tonnes and contained metal active balance resource, where no unresolvable problems are grades at the point of delivery to the processing plant.
Resources foreseen, is considered as the total Indicated and Measured are not discounted for losses and dilution and are inclusive of Mineral Resource at a mine.
All figures in reserves and resources are in dry metric At the mature Zhezkazgan mines, the amount of commercial tonnes and are dated as at 31 December 2013. reserves as defined in Kazakhstan that have been fully Kazakhmys Mining gold mineral resources developed for extraction is equated to the Proved Ore Reserve Following international convention, gold resources reported in this inclusive of loss and dilution factors.
The Measured Mineral report are in situ estimates, while the reserves make due allowance Resource which corresponds to the Proved Ore Reserve can be for mining recovery and dilution, based on recent operational derived, as can the Indicated Mineral Resource and Probable Ore experience or assumptions made in feasibility studies.
Reserves are contained within the Mineral Resources.
Silver grades for the Zhezkazgan mines are stated for the total Mineral Resource as the accuracy of the estimate is not as precise as for copper.
Reserves Resources Ore Loss Dilution.
2 Mine extensions are included within the original ore body as part of operating mines.
3 Development project relates to Bozymchak.
Non-JORC Compliant Ore The mature mines in the Zhezkazgan Region will continue to operate but are not expected to generate positive economic returns under their current operating structure.
The reserves at these mines have therefore been removed from the tabulation of the Companys Ore Reserves and the prior year ore reserves have also been included in the table for comparison purposes.
A separate tabulation is presented below of Non JORC Compliant Ore Reserves which shows the tonnage and grade of minerals available for mining at these mines, which has been excluded from the Ore Reserves.
2 Silver values for the Zhezkazgan Region are not available by blocks, only at the borehole level and have been averaged over each operation by Kazakhmys LLC.
No ore loss or dilution has been included.
3 Development projects relate to Aidarlay, Aktogay, Anissimov Kluch, Bozshakol, Karagaily, Kosmurun, Mizek underground, Nikolayevsky North, Nurkazgan East, Nurkazgan North, Sayak IV, Taskora, Zhaisan, Zhilandy and Zhomart phase II.
2 Gold equivalent ounces have been calculated based on the following prices: copper $6,400 2012: $6,000 per tonne, gold $1,300 2012: $1,300 per ounce and silver $22.00 2012: $22.00 per ounce.
3 Operating mines consist of the Mizek and Mukur mines.
4 Bozymchak has been re-classified as a development project in Kazakhmys Mining for 2012 and 2013.
3 ncvar refers to net calorific value as received.
4 Consists of the Molodezhny and Kusheki coal mines which are part of the Central Region.
com 171 Supplementary Information Supplementary Information Mining ore reserves and mineral resources continued Year ended 31 December 2013 Revision of ore reserves and mineral resources The Statement of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources is presented in accordance with the criteria of the Australasian statement to 31 December 2013 Code for Reporting Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves 2012, IMC Group Consulting Ltd IMC has undertaken a review of published by the Joint Ore Reserves Committee of the the reserve and resource estimates prepared by Kazakhmys PLC Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy and collaborating Kazakhmys or the Company as the basis for the preparation institutions the JORC Code.
For the sake of clarity in this of a statement of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources as at report, reference to JORC category Ore Reserve and Mineral 31 December 2013.
Tabulations of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resource begin with a capital letter.
The uncapitalised reserve Resources, comparisons with the previous annual statement and refers to the Kazakhstan use of the word which can, depending on short technical descriptions, are provided for Kazakhmys copper, the context, be synonymous with both the JORC terms Ore coal and gold assets.
The annual review of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources carried IMC is satisfied, from the audit undertaken, that the recently out by IMC is predominantly focused each year on mine reserve revised estimates of reserves and resources prepared by the reports, depletion through production, analysis of company plans, Company are in accordance with the classification system required exploration and other changes affecting the Ore Reserves and by law in the Republic of Kazakhstan and that, correspondingly, the Mineral Resources.
estimates have a consistent basis for expressing the degree of The consideration of Mineral Resources is based on the JORC confidence for stating quantities of exploitable minerals at specific definition which says that a Mineral Resource is an occurrence of grades of metal content.
On the basis of the estimates supplied by minerals in such form, quality and quantity that there are the Company, IMC has applied the same technical criteria as reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
In utilised in the 2010 audit, for the preparation of the presentation converting Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves in accordance with of ore reserves and mineral resources as at 31 December 2013, the JORC Code, IMC considers a number of Modifying Factors in accordance with the reporting criteria of the JORC Code.
and the code definition that, an Ore Reserve is the economically Guidelines for the alignment of Russian minerals reporting standards mineable part of a Measured and or Indicated Mineral Resource.
It and the JORC Code were published in 2010 and again these have includes diluting materials and allowances for losses, which may been applied in the preparation of the Kazakhmys Ore Reserve and occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate assessments and Mineral Resource Statement.
This is considered appropriate as all the studies have been carried out, and include consideration of and mineral deposits currently being mined, or developed, by Kazakhmys modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, were explored during the Soviet era and reserves approved during economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental that era are still referenced.
The aim of the guidelines is to provide a factors.
These assessments demonstrate at the time of reporting standard reporting terminology for use in disclosure of the assets of that extraction could reasonably be justified.
mining companies to stock markets.
The term economically mineable has no fixed definition in the JORC Code and short-term fluctuations in factors such as metal prices or operating expenditure do not warrant the reTim Horner classification from Ore Reserves to Mineral Resources.
If, however, C. Geol C. Eng P. Geo Ont the changes are expected to be long term or permanent in nature, Principal Geologist, IMC Group Consulting Ltd then such re-classification is required.
4 February 2014 IMC do not consider it necessary to visit every operation each year IMC Group Consulting Ltd for the purposes of verifying the requirements of the Modifying Innovate Office Building Factors.
A full due diligence of all the Companys mining and Lake View Drive processing assets and development projects was conducted by Sherwood Park IMC in 2010 and the results of the study formed the basis of a Nottinghamshire NG15 0DT Competent Persons Report CPR which was used by the United Kingdom Company for their listing on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange in 2011.
The observations and conclusions made by IMC in the CPR are still considered to be largely relevant at the end of 2013 in the case of mines where production and methods have been consistent since 2010.
Any discrepancies from the 2010 benchmark were accommodated during discussion with the Companys technical head office team based in Astana, Kazakhstan.
In October 2013, IMC visited some of the Kazakhmys operations and development projects where significant changes had occurred since the 2010 CPR study.
The changes that occurred have now been incorporated into this report.
172 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013
