Governance Statement of Directors responsibilities Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements.
Annual Report and the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in as a whole: and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs the Directors report, including content contained by reference, as adopted by the European Union EU and applicable law and includes a fair review of the development and performance of the they have elected to prepare the Company financial statements business and the position of the Company and the undertakings in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial The Board confirms that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of their information necessary for shareholders to assess the performance, profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and strategy and business model of the Company.
Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Signed on behalf of the Board consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU: for the Company financial statements, state whether the applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject Justin Atkinson to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Chief Executive Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will continue in business.
James Hind The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Finance Director records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 3 March 2014 financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors report, Directors remuneration report and Corporate Governance statement including the Audit Committee report that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
