Business review Governance Accounts 115 ACCOUNTS Shareholder information Annual General Meeting Share price history The Annual General Meeting of Kingfisher plc will be held per ordinary share Dollars per ADR on Thursday, 13 June 2013 at 11.00am at the Paddington Financial year High Low High Low London Hilton Hotel, 146 Praed Street, London W2 1EE.
2012 13 3.14 2.54 9.98 7.81 2011 12 2.87 2.17 9.34 6.91 Financial calendar 2010 11 2.72 1.96 8.16 5.93 The proposed financial calendar for 2013 14 is as follows: 2009 10 2.47 1.18 8.24 3.15 First quarter results 30 May 2013 2008 09 1.53 0.91 5.45 3.53 Pre-close first half trading results 24 July 2013 Based on the daily closing price of Kingfisher plc shares on the London Interim results to 27 July 2013 11 September 2013 Stock Exchange Third quarter results 28 November 2013 Based on the daily closing price of Kingfisher plc ADRs in the Over-theFourth quarter results February 2014 Counter OTC market Preliminary results to 1 February 2014 March 2014 Dividend Registrar The interim dividend for the financial year ended 2 February Computershare Investor Services PLC 2013 of 3.09p per share was paid on 16 November 2012.
The Pavilions The table below provides the payment information for the final Bridgwater Road dividend of 6.37p per share, subject to shareholder approval Bristol BS99 6ZZ at the Annual General Meeting on 13 June 2013: Telephone: 0870 702 0129 Website: http: www.
co. uk Ex-dividend date 8 May 2013 Record date 10 May 2013 Shareholder enquiries Any queries that shareholders have regarding their Final date for return of DRIP mandate forms currency elections 24 May 2013 shareholdings, such as a change of name or address, transfer Euro exchange rate notification 29 May 2013 of shares, lost share certificates or dividend cheques, should Payment date and DRIP purchase 17 June 2013 be referred to the Registrar using the contact details above.
A Shareholder Helpline is available on UK business days between Payment methods 8.30am and 5.30pm and contains an automated self-service Shareholders can elect to receive their dividends in a number functionality which is available 24 hours a day.
of ways: Share dealing facilities Cheque cash dividends will automatically be paid to Shareholders have the opportunity to buy or sell Kingfisher plc shareholders by cheque, which will be sent by post to the shares using a share dealing facility operated by the Registrar.
shareholders registered address: Telephone share dealing: Commission is 1%, plus 35: stamp BACS cash dividends can be paid by mandate directly to a UK duty at 0.5% is payable on purchases.
The service is available bank or building society account through the BACS system.
from 8.00am to 4.30pm Monday to Friday excluding bank This method of payment reduces the risk of your cheque holidays.
Telephone: 0870 703 0084. being intercepted or lost in the post.
Shareholders wishing to Internet share dealing: Commission is 1%, subject to a receive their dividends in this way can update their mandate minimum charge of 30: stamp duty at 0.5% is payable on instructions at www.
co. uk or should complete purchases.
The service is available to place orders out of a dividend mandate form and return it to the Registrars: market hours.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP the Company also Simply log onto http: www.
offers shareholders a DRIP, whereby shareholders can use their cash dividend to buy further shares in the Company.
Terms and conditions of both of these services can be obtained Shareholders can apply online at www.
co. uk or by calling 0870 702 0129. complete a mandate form and return it to the address shown Unauthorised brokers boiler room scams above: and Kingfisher plc is legally obliged to make its share register Global Payments Service this service, provided by the available to the general public.
Consequently some shareholders Registrar enables shareholders to have dividend payments may receive unsolicited mail, including correspondence from paid directly into their bank account in their chosen local unauthorised investment companies.
We have become aware currency.
To view terms and register, please visit that some shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls www.
or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
com 116 ACCOUNTS Shareholder information continued American Depositary Receipt ADR Forward-looking statements The Company has a Sponsored Level 1 ADR programme in the Certain statements included in this Annual Report and United States.
Each ADR represents two Kingfisher shares.
Accounts are forward-looking and should be considered, amongst other statutory provisions, in light of the safe harbour Electronic communication provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Shareholders who have not yet elected to receive shareholder Reform Act of 1995.
All statements other than historical facts documentation in electronic form can sign up by visiting may be forward-looking statements.
co. uk ecomms and registering their details.
therefore subject to risks, assumptions and uncertainties that When registering for electronic communications, shareholders could cause actual results to differ materially from those will be sent an email each time the Company publishes statutory expressed or implied because they relate to future events.
documents, providing a link to the information.
These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited Electing for electronic communications does not mean that to, statements relating to the Companys expectations around shareholders cannot obtain hard copy documents.
Should the Companys programme known as Creating the Leader shareholders require a paper copy of any of the Companys and its associated eight steps.
shareholder documentation, they should contact the Registrar Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of at the address stated under the section headed Registrar.
relevant terminology including the words: believes, Corporate website estimates, anticipates, expects, intends, plans, Shareholders are encouraged to visit Kingfishers corporate goal, target, aim, may, will, would, could or website www.
The website includes information should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or about the Company, its strategy and business performance, comparable terminology and include all matters that are not latest news and press releases and approach to corporate historical facts.
They appear in a number of places throughout governance.
The Investor Relations section is a key tool for this Annual Report and Accounts and include statements shareholders, with information of share price, financial results, regarding our intentions, beliefs or current expectations and shareholders meetings and dividends.
This section also contains those of our officers, directors and employees concerning, frequently asked questions and copies of the current and past amongst other things, our results of operations, financial annual reports.
condition, changes in tax rates, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the businesses we operate.
Kingfisher has an Investor Relations app for the iPad.
The app provides access to the latest share price information, corporate Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially news, financial reports, presentations, corporate videos and from those estimated by the forward-looking statements include, earnings webcasts both online and offline.
It is updated with the but are not limited to, global economic business conditions, latest financial information at the same time as the corporate monetary and interest rate policies, foreign currency exchange website.
To discover more, download it free from the App store.
rates, equity and property prices, the impact of competition, inflation and deflation, changes to regulations, taxes and Document viewing legislation, changes to consumer saving and spending Shareholders will have the opportunity to view certain habits: and our success in managing these factors.
documentation as outlined in the Notice of Annual General Meeting from at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting, until its Consequently, our actual future financial condition, conclusion.
The Articles of Association of the Company and performance and results could differ materially from the other documentation referred to in this Annual Report can be plans, goals and expectations set out in our forward-looking viewed at the registered office during normal business hours.
Reliance should not be placed on any forwardlooking statement.
The forward-looking statements contained Company Secretary and Registered Office herein speak only as of the date of this Annual Report and the Paul Moore Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any Kingfisher plc forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new 3 Sheldon Square information, future events or otherwise.
com Registered in England and Wales Registered Number 01664812 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Kingsher is included in two socially responsible indices, the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes.
For more information please visit www.
com This document is printed on UPM Fine Offset, a paper containing virgin bre sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC certied forests.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
Printed by Park Communications on FSC certied paper.
Park is an EMAS certied CarbonNeutral Company and its Environmental Management System is certied to ISO14001 Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc www.
com Kingsher plc, 3 Sheldon Square, Paddington, London W2 6PX Telephone: 44 0 20 7372 8008 www.
