Business review Governance Accounts 65 ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the 1 General information following new standards, amendments and interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were Kingfisher plc the Company, its subsidiaries, joint ventures in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet and associates together the Group supply home improvement been adopted by the EU : products and services through a network of retail stores and other channels, located mainly in the United Kingdom, IAS 1 amended, Presentation of items of other continental Europe and China.
comprehensive income effective from 1 July 2012 : The Company is incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The IAS 19 revised, Employee benefits effective from nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are 1 January 2013 : set out in the Business Review on pages 2 to 27.
IFRS 1 amended, First time adoption on government The address of its registered office is 3 Sheldon Square, loans effective from 1 January 2013 : Paddington, London W2 6PX.
IFRS 7 amended, Disclosures Offsetting financial assets The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
and financial liabilities effective from 1 January 2013 : These consolidated financial statements have been approved for IFRS 13, Fair value measurement effective from issue by the Board of Directors on 25 March 2013.
1 January 2013 : Annual improvements to IFRSs 2011 effective from 2 Principal accounting policies 1 January 2013 : IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements effective The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of from 1 January 2014 : these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to the years presented, IFRS 11, Joint arrangements effective from unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation IFRS 12, Disclosure of interests in other entities The consolidated financial statements of the Company, its effective from 1 January 2014 : subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are made up to the IAS 27 revised, Separate financial statements effective nearest Saturday to 31 January each year, except as disclosed from 1 January 2014 : in note 17 and in note 4 of the Companys separate financial statements.
The current financial year is the 53 weeks ended IAS 28 revised, Investments in associates and joint 2 February 2013 the year or 2012 13.
The comparative ventures effective from 1 January 2014 : financial year is the 52 weeks ended 28 January 2012 the IAS 32 amendment, Financial instruments: Presentation prior year or 2011 12. on offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities The directors of Kingfisher plc, having made appropriate effective from 1 January 2014 : and enquiries, consider that adequate resources exist for the Group IFRS 9, Financial instruments effective from to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future 1 January 2015. and that, therefore, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements for the The directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards year ended 2 February 2013.
Refer to the Directors statement listed above will have a material impact on the financial of responsibility on page 33. statements of the Group in future periods, except as follows: The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in IAS 19 revised will principally impact the measurement and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as presentation of defined benefit pension expense income and adopted by the European Union IFRS and those parts of the the disclosures for benefit plans.
The most significant change Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under is expected to be the replacement of interest cost and IFRS and therefore the consolidated financial statements expected return on scheme assets with a single net finance comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS legislation.
cost or return determined by applying the same discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligations to the There are no new standards, amendments or interpretations, net defined benefit liability or asset.
In addition, the revised which are mandatory for the first time for the financial year standard will reclassify the administrative costs of running ended 2 February 2013, that are relevant and material for the UK scheme from net finance costs to operating costs.
The Groups reported profit before taxation and net assets are The following amendments and interpretations, which are not expected to be materially impacted for 2012 13 restated mandatory for the first time for the financial year ended and 2013 14, however in future years they may be impacted 2 February 2013, are either not currently relevant or not by the change in the finance cost return calculation material for the Group: depending on market interest rates, rates of return and the mix of scheme assets: IFRS 1 amendment, Severe hyperinflation and removal of fixed dates for first-time adopters: IAS 1 amended will principally require items presented in other comprehensive income OCI to be grouped together IFRS 7 amendment, Disclosures Transfers of based on whether items can be reclassified to profit or loss financial assets: and subsequently.
The amendments do not address which items IAS 12 amended, Deferred tax: Recovery of are presented in OCI: underlying assets.
com 66 ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued other hedged items under fair value hedge relationships.
2 Principal accounting policies continued Financing derivatives are those that relate to underlying items IFRS 13 clarifies the measurement of fair value for certain of a financing nature.
assets and liabilities as well as the associated disclosures: and The effective tax rate represents the effective income tax IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and disclosures expense as a percentage of continuing profit before taxation of financial instruments.
Effective income tax expense is the continuing income tax expense excluding tax on exceptional Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide items and tax adjustments in respect of prior years and the a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a impact of changes in tax rates on deferred tax.
detailed review has been completed.
Net debt cash comprises borrowings and financing derivatives The consolidated financial statements have been prepared excluding accrued interest, less cash and cash equivalents under the historical cost convention, as modified by the use and current other investments.
of valuations for certain financial instruments, share-based payments and post employment benefits.
Basis of consolidation Groups principal accounting policies is set out below.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company, its subsidiaries, joint ventures The preparation of financial statements in conformity with and associates.
IFRS requires the use of certain accounting estimates and assumptions.
It also requires management to exercise its i Subsidiaries judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting Subsidiary undertakings are all entities over which the Group policies.
The areas involving critical accounting estimates and has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, judgements, which are significant to the consolidated financial generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of statements, are disclosed in note 3. the voting rights.
Subsidiary undertakings acquired are recorded under the acquisition method of accounting and their results Use of non-GAAP measures included from the date of acquisition.
The results of subsidiaries In the reporting of financial information, the Group uses certain which have been disposed are included up to the effective date measures that are not required under IFRS, the generally of disposal.
accepted accounting principles GAAP under which the Group reports.
Kingfisher believes that retail profit, adjusted pre-tax The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary profit, effective tax rate, adjusted post-tax profit and adjusted is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred earnings per share provide additional useful information on and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration underlying trends to shareholders.
These and other non-GAAP transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting measures such as net debt cash are used by Kingfisher for from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Acquisition-related internal performance analysis and incentive compensation costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired arrangements for employees.
The terms retail profit, and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business exceptional items, adjusted, effective tax rate and net combination are measured initially at their fair values at the debt cash are not defined terms under IFRS and may therefore acquisition date.
On an  basis, not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the other companies.
They are not intended to be a substitute for, acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests or superior to, GAAP measures.
proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is Retail profit is defined as continuing operating profit before the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the noncentral costs principally the costs of the Groups head office, controlling interests share of subsequent changes in equity.
exceptional items, amortisation of acquisition intangibles Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling and the Groups share of interest and tax of joint ventures interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having and associates.
Prior to 31 January 2010, losses exceeding The separate reporting of non-recurring exceptional items, the non-controlling interest in the equity of a subsidiary were which are presented as exceptional within their relevant income required to be attributed to the parent: the resulting deficit statement category, helps provide an indication of the Groups balances were not restated following amendment to IAS 27, underlying business performance.
The principal items which Consolidated and separate financial statements.
are included as exceptional items are: The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of non-trading items included in operating profit such as any non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the acquisitionprofits and losses on the disposal, closure or impairment date fair value of any previous equity interests in the acquiree of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and investments over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is which do not form part of the Groups trading activities: recorded as goodwill.
If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of profits and losses on the disposal of properties: and a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly the costs of significant restructuring and incremental in the income statement.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains The term adjusted refers to the relevant measure being on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
reported for continuing operations excluding exceptional items, Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction financing fair value remeasurements, amortisation of acquisition provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
intangibles, related tax items and prior year tax items.
Financing Accounting policies of acquired subsidiaries have been fair value remeasurements represent changes in the fair value of changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the financing derivatives, excluding interest accruals, offset by fair policies adopted by the Group.
value adjustments to the carrying amount of borrowings and Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Business review Governance Accounts 67 retranslation of foreign operations are recognised in a separate 2 Principal accounting policies continued component of equity.
ii Joint ventures and associates On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the Joint ventures are entities over which the Group has joint retranslation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of control, with a third party, to govern the financial and operating borrowings and other currency instruments designated as activities of that entity.
The equity method is used to account for hedges of such investments, are taken to equity.
When a foreign the Groups investments in joint ventures.
operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in Associates are entities over which the Group has the ability the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
to exercise significant influence but not control, generally Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the of the voting rights.
The equity method is used to account foreign entity and translated at the rates of exchange at the for the Groups investments in associates.
Under the equity method investments are initially recognised at Principal rates of exchange against Sterling: cost.
The Groups investments in joint ventures and associates include goodwill net of any accumulated impairment losses 2012 13 2011 12 identified on acquisition.
Average Year end Average Year end rate rate rate rate The Groups share of post-acquisition profits or losses is Euro 1.23 1.15 1.15 1.19 recognised in the income statement within operating profit, and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is US Dollar 1.59 1.57 1.60 1.57 recognised in reserves.
The cumulative post-acquisition Polish Zloty 5.13 4.79 4.80 5.04 movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of Chinese Renminbi 10.01 9.80 10.31 9.94 the investment.
When the Groups share of losses equals or d. Revenue recognition exceeds its interest, including any other long term receivables, Sales represent the supply of home improvement products and the Group does not recognise any further losses, unless it has services.
Sales exclude transactions made between companies incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint within the Group, Value Added Tax, other sales-related taxes venture or associate.
and are net of returns, trade and staff discounts.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its Sales of in-store products are generally recognised at the point joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent of the of cash receipt.
Where award credits such as vouchers or loyalty Groups interest.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless points are provided as part of the sales transaction, the amount the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset allocated to the credits is deferred and recognised when the transferred.
Accounting policies of joint ventures and associates credits are redeemed and the Group fulfils its obligations to have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with supply the awards.
the policies adopted by the Group.
For delivered products and services, sales are recognised either c. Foreign currencies when the product has been delivered or, for installation income, i Presentation and functional currencies when the service has been performed.
Sales from delivered The consolidated financial statements are presented in products and services represent only a small component of Sterling, which is the Groups presentation currency.
Items the Groups sales as the majority relates to in-store purchases included in the financial statements of each of the Groups of products.
entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates Other income is generally composed primarily of external rental i. e. its functional currency.
income and profits and losses on disposal of assets.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight line ii Transactions and balances basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Initial direct costs Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rates added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and prevailing on the date of the transaction or, for practical recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term.
reasons, at average monthly rates where exchange rates do not fluctuate significantly.
e. Rebates Rebates received from suppliers mainly comprise volume Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign related rebates on the purchase of inventories.
currencies are translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences on monetary Volume related rebates are recognised based on actual items are taken to the income statement.
Exceptions to this are purchases in the period as a proportion of total purchases where the monetary items form part of the net investment in a forecast over the rebate period where it is probable the rebates foreign operation or are designated and effective net investment will be received and the amounts can be estimated reliably.
Such exchange differences are initially Rebates relating to inventories purchased but still held at the deferred in equity.
balance sheet date are deducted from the carrying value so iii Group companies that the cost of inventories is recorded net of applicable rebates.
The balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings Such rebates are credited to the income statement when the are expressed in Sterling at the rates of exchange at the goods are sold.
Profits and losses of overseas subsidiary f. Dividends undertakings are expressed in Sterling at average exchange Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid to the rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the Companys shareholders.
Final dividends are recognised when they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
com 68 ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued iii Impairment 2 Principal accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if g. Intangible assets events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying i Goodwill amount may not be recoverable.
When a review for impairment Goodwill represents the future economic benefits arising is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference from assets acquired in a business combination that are to the net present value of expected future pre-tax cash flows not individually identified and separately recognised.
value-in-use of the relevant cash generating unit or fair value Such benefits include future synergies expected from the less costs to sell if higher.
The discount rate applied is based combination and intangible assets not meeting the criteria upon the Groups weighted average cost of capital with for separate recognition.
appropriate adjustments for the risks associated with the relevant cash generating unit.
Any impairment in value is Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
charged to the income statement in the period in which Goodwill is not amortised and is tested annually for impairment it occurs.
by assessing the recoverable amount of each cash generating unit or groups of cash generating units to which the goodwill iv Disposal relates.
The recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset net present value of expected future pre-tax cash flows valueis determined as the difference between the sales proceeds in-use or fair value less costs to sell if higher.
The discount and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the rate applied is based upon the Groups weighted average cost income statement.
Sales of land and buildings are accounted of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks associated for when there is an unconditional exchange of contracts.
with the relevant cash generating unit or groups of cash v Subsequent costs generating units.
When the recoverable amount of the Subsequent costs are included in the related assets carrying goodwill is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss is amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only recognised immediately in the income statement which cannot when it is probable that future economic benefits associated subsequently be reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance are entity sold.
charged to the income statement in the period in which they ii Computer software are incurred.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the i.
Leased assets basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the Where assets are financed by leasing agreements which give specific software.
These costs are amortised over their rights approximating to ownership, the assets are treated as if estimated useful lives of two to ten years.
they had been purchased outright.
The amount capitalised is Costs that are directly associated with the production of the lower of the fair value or the present value of the minimum identifiable and unique software products controlled by the lease payments during the lease term at the inception of the Group, which are expected to generate economic benefits lease.
The assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible term or their useful life.
Obligations relating to finance leases, assets.
Direct costs include software development, employee net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included, and consultancy costs and an appropriate portion of relevant as appropriate, under borrowings due within or after one year.
These costs are amortised over their estimated The finance charge element of rentals is charged to finance useful lives of two to ten years.
Costs associated with identifying, costs in the income statement over the lease term.
sourcing, evaluating or maintaining computer software are All other leases are operating leases and the rental payments recognised as an expense as incurred.
are generally charged to the income statement in the period h. Property, plant and equipment to which the payments relate, except for those leases which i Cost incorporate fixed minimum rental uplift clauses.
Leases which Property, plant and equipment held for use in the business contain fixed minimum rental uplifts are charged to the income are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Where a lease is taken out for land and buildings combined, ii Depreciation the buildings element of the lease may be capitalised as a Depreciation is provided to reflect a straight line reduction finance lease if it meets the criteria for a finance lease, but the from cost to estimated residual value over the estimated useful land element will in most cases be classified as an operating life of the asset as follows: lease.
If the contracted lease payments are not split between land and buildings in the lease contract, the split is made based Freehold land not depreciated on the market values of the land and buildings at the inception Freehold and long leasehold buildings over remaining useful life of the lease.
Short leasehold land and buildings over remaining period of the lease Incentives received or paid to enter into lease agreements are Fixtures and fittings between 4 and 20 years released to the income statement on a straight line basis over Computers and electronic equipment between 3 and 5 years the lease term.
Motor cars 4 years Commercial vehicles between 3 and 10 years Long leaseholds are defined as those having remaining lease terms of more than 50 years.
Asset lives and residual values are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Business review Governance Accounts 69 Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income 2 Principal accounting policies continued statement, unless the changes to the pension scheme are j.
Investment property conditional on the employees remaining in service for a Investment property is property held by the Group to earn rental specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the income or for capital appreciation.
The Groups investment past service costs are amortised on a straight line basis over properties are carried at cost less depreciation and provision for the vesting period.
Depreciation is provided on a consistent basis with For defined contribution schemes, the Group pays contributions that applied to property, plant and equipment.
to privately administered pension schemes on a contractual k. Capitalisation of borrowing costs basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the Interest on borrowings to finance the construction of properties contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised held as non-current assets is capitalised from the date work as an employee benefit expense when they are due.
starts on the property to the date when substantially all the ii Share-based compensation activities which are necessary to get the property ready for The Group operates several equity-settled, share-based use are complete.
Where construction is completed in parts, compensation schemes.
The fair value of the employee each part is considered separately when capitalising interest.
services received in exchange for the grant of options or Interest is capitalised before any allowance for tax relief.
deferred shares is recognised as an expense and is calculated l. Inventories using Black-Scholes and stochastic models.
The total amount Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by value, on a weighted average cost basis.
reference to the fair value of the options or deferred shares granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting Trade discounts and rebates received are deducted in conditions.
The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect determining the cost of purchase of inventories.
Cost includes expected and actual levels of options vesting due to appropriate attributable overheads and direct expenditure non-market vesting conditions.
incurred in the normal course of business in bringing goods to their present location and condition.
Costs of inventories n. Taxation include the transfer from equity of any gains or losses on The income tax expense represents the sum of the tax qualifying cash flow hedges relating to purchases.
currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated costs necessary Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation as reported to make the sale.
Write downs to net realisable value are made in the income statement because it excludes items of income for slow moving, damaged or obsolete items and other events or expense which are taxable or deductible in other years or or conditions resulting in expected selling prices being lower which are never taxable or deductible.
The carrying value of inventories reflects known and Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable expected losses of product in the ordinary course of business.
on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and m. Employee benefits liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding i Post employment benefits tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is The Group operates various defined benefit and defined accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
contribution pension schemes for its employees, some of which Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable are required by local legislation.
A defined benefit scheme is a temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to pension scheme which defines an amount of pension benefit the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available which an employee will receive on retirement.
A defined against which deductible temporary differences or unused tax contribution scheme is a pension scheme under which the losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised Group usually pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition In all cases other than some of the legally required schemes, of goodwill in a business combination.
Deferred tax assets a separate fund is being accumulated to meet the accruing and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference liabilities.
The assets of each of these funds are either held arises from the initial recognition other than in a business under trusts or managed by insurance companies and are combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction entirely separate from the Groups assets.
which affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable of defined benefit pension schemes is the fair value of scheme temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligation at joint ventures and associates, except where the Group is able the balance sheet date, together with an adjustment for any past to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is service costs not yet recognised.
The defined benefit obligation probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the the foreseeable future.
The present value of the defined The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available corporate bonds which are denominated in the currency in to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
which the benefits will be paid and which have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Current and deferred tax are calculated using tax rates which have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments sheet date and are expected to apply in the period when the and changes in actuarial assumptions are credited or charged liability is settled or the asset is realised.
to the statement of comprehensive income as they arise.
com 70 ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued items and financing items are recognised in operating profit 2 Principal accounting policies continued and net finance costs respectively.
Current and deferred tax are charged or credited to the income Derivatives are initially recorded at fair value on the date a statement, except when they relate to items charged or credited derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently carried directly to equity, in which case the current or deferred tax is at fair value.
The accounting treatment of derivatives and other also recognised directly in equity.
financial instruments classified as hedges depends on their Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against designation, which occurs at the start of the hedge relationship.
each other when they relate to income taxes levied by the same The Group designates certain financial instruments as: tax jurisdiction and when the Group intends to settle its current a hedge of the fair value of an asset or liability or tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
unrecognised firm commitment fair value hedge : o.
Provisions a hedge of a highly probable forecast transaction or firm Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal commitment cash flow hedge : or or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation net settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Fair value hedges If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable pre-tax rate which reflects current market assessments of the to the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry being time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific recorded in the income statement.
Gains or losses from to the liability.
remeasuring the corresponding hedging instrument are recognised in the same line of the income statement.
p. Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Cash flow hedges Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the Changes in the effective portion of the fair value of derivatives contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are that are designated as hedges of future cash flows are derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flows recognised directly in equity, with any ineffective portion from the financial asset expire or the Group has substantially being recognised immediately in the income statement transferred the risks and rewards of ownership.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or liabilities or a part of a financial liability are derecognised forecast transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged asset or liability, then, at the time it is recognised, the associated or cancelled or expires.
gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of i Cash and cash equivalents the non-financial asset or liability.
For hedges that result in the Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits recognition of a financial asset or liability, amounts deferred in held on call with banks and other short term highly liquid equity are recognised in the income statement in the same investments with original maturities of three months or less.
period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
ii Borrowings Net investment hedges Interest bearing borrowings are recorded at the proceeds Where the Group hedges net investments in foreign operations received, net of direct issue costs and subsequently measured through foreign currency borrowings, the gains or losses on the at amortised cost.
Where borrowings are in designated and retranslation of the borrowings are recognised directly in equity.
effective fair value hedge relationships, adjustments are made If the Group uses derivatives as the hedging instrument, the to their carrying amounts to reflect the hedged risks.
Finance effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity, with any charges, including premiums payable on settlement or ineffective portion being recognised immediately in the income redemption and direct issue costs, are amortised to the statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are income statement using the effective interest method.
recycled through the income statement on disposal of the iii Other investments foreign operation.
Other investments include bank deposits, government bonds In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group documents and other short term investments with original maturities of in advance the relationship between the item being hedged more than three months.
The Group also documents and iv Trade receivables demonstrates an assessment of the relationship between the Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and are hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the subsequently measured at amortised cost less any provision hedge has been and will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
for bad and doubtful debts.
The effectiveness testing is re-performed at each period end to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
v Trade payables Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and are Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument subsequently measured at amortised cost.
expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss vi Derivatives and hedge accounting on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in Where hedge accounting is not applied, or to the extent to equity until the highly probable forecast transaction occurs.
which it is not effective, changes in the fair value of derivatives If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Changes net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred in the fair value of derivatives transacted as hedges of operating to the income statement.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Business review Governance Accounts 71 Inventories 2 Principal accounting policies continued As inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other value this requires the estimation of the eventual sales price of host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their goods to customers in the future.
A high degree of judgement risks and characteristics are not closely related to those is applied when estimating the impact on the carrying value of of host contracts, and the host contracts are not carried at inventories of factors such as slow moving items, shrinkage, fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the damage and obsolescence.
The quantity, age and condition income statement.
of inventories are regularly measured and assessed as part of range reviews and inventory counts undertaken through 3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements out the year and across the Group.
Refer to note 18 for further information.
The preparation of consolidated financial statements under IFRS requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions Income taxes that affect the application of policies and reported amounts.
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are and there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax based on historical experience and other factors including determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable business.
Significant judgement may therefore be required in under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from these determining the provision for income taxes in each territory.
The estimates and assumptions which have a Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year final outcome of these matters is different from the amounts are discussed below.
which were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which Impairment of goodwill and other assets such determination is made.
These adjustments in respect of As required, the Group applies procedures to ensure that its prior years are recorded in the income statement or directly assets are carried at no more than their recoverable amount.
Refer to notes 9 and 25 for The procedures, by their nature, require estimates and further information.
The most significant are set out below.
Restructuring provisions The Group carries a number of provisions in relation to historical The Group is required, on at least an annual basis, to test and ongoing restructuring programmes.
The most significant whether goodwill has suffered any impairment.
As part of this part of the provisions is the cost to exit stores and property testing the recoverable amounts of cash generating units have contracts.
The ultimate costs and timing of cash flows are been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
The dependent on exiting the property lease contracts on the use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows closed stores and subletting surplus space.
Refer to note expected to arise from the continuing operation of the cash 26 for further information.
generating unit and the choice of suitable discount and long term growth rates in order to calculate the present value of the Post employment benefits forecast cash flows.
Actual outcomes could vary significantly The present value of the defined benefit liabilities recognised from these estimates.
Further information on the impairment on the balance sheet is dependent on a number of assumptions tests undertaken, including the key assumptions, is given including interest rates of high quality corporate bonds, in note 12. inflation and mortality rates.
The net interest charge or return is dependent on both the interest rates of high quality corporate Property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if bonds and the assumed investment returns on scheme assets.
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying The assumptions are based on the conditions at the time amount may not be recoverable.
When a review for impairment and changes in these assumptions can lead to significant is conducted, the recoverable amount of an asset or a cash movements in the estimated obligations.
To help the reader generating unit is determined as the higher of fair value less understand the impact of changes in the key assumptions, costs to sell and value-in-use, calculated on the basis of a sensitivity analysis is provided in note 27. managements assumptions and estimates.
At each reporting date the Group is required to assess whether there is objective evidence that its investments in associates and joint ventures may be impaired.
This requires estimates of the investments recoverable amounts, including present values of the Groups share of future cash flows.
com 72 ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Segmental analysis Income statement 2012 13 Other International millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Total Sales 4,316 4,194 1,029 1,034 10,573 Retail profit 234 397 107 43 781 Exceptional items 26 Central costs 42 Share of interest and tax of joint ventures and associates 18 Operating profit 695 Net finance costs 4 Profit before taxation 691 2011 12 Other International millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Total Sales 4,338 4,470 1,094 929 10,831 Retail profit 271 423 135 53 882 Exceptional items 12 Central costs 43 Share of interest and tax of joint ventures and associates 20 Operating profit 807 Net finance costs 10 Profit before taxation 797 The current financial year is the 53 weeks ended 2 February 2013 with the comparative financial year being the 52 weeks ended 28 January 2012.
This only impacts the UK & Ireland businesses with all of the other businesses reporting on a calendar basis as a result of local requirements.
The effect of the 53rd week on the results of the Group is the inclusion of an additional 72m sales and an immaterial benefit to retail profit.
Balance sheet 2012 13 Other International millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Total Segment assets 1,458 1,443 600 620 4,121 Central liabilities 402 Goodwill 2,399 Net cash 38 Net assets 6,156 2011 12 Other International millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Total Segment assets 1,403 1,309 505 596 3,813 Central liabilities 395 Goodwill 2,397 Net debt 88 Net assets 5,727 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Business review Governance Accounts 73 4 Segmental analysis continued Other segmental information 2012 13 Other International millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Central Total Capital expenditure 125 93 49 43 6 316 Depreciation and amortisation 133 72 14 26 3 248 Impairment losses 8 8 1 Non-current assets 3,332 1,984 584 459 20 6,379 2011 12 Other International millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Central Total Capital expenditure 225 118 55 48 4 450 Depreciation and amortisation 122 77 12 25 1 237 Impairment losses 2 1 4 7 1 Non-current assets 3,3441,923524438 13 6,242 1 Non-current assets exclude investments in joint ventures and associates, post employment benefits, deferred tax assets, derivatives and other receivables.
The operating segments disclosed above are based on the information reported internally to the Board of Directors and Group Executive.
This information is predominantly based on the geographical areas in which the Group operates and which are managed separately.
The Group only has one business segment being the supply of home improvement products and services.
The Other International segment consists of Poland, China, Spain, Russia, the joint venture Kota s in Turkey and the associate Hornbach which has operations in Germany and other European countries.
Poland has been shown separately due to its significance.
Central costs principally comprise the costs of the Groups head office.
Central liabilities comprise unallocated head office and other central items including pensions, interest and tax.
5 Exceptional items millions 2012 13 2011 12 Included within selling and distribution expenses Ireland restructuring 21 UK restructuring 4 2 UK stores acquisition integration 11 17 9 Included within administrative expenses UK restructuring 20 Net pension gain 11 9 Included within other income Loss on disposal of properties 3 3 Exceptional items before tax 26 12 Tax on exceptional items 1 7 Exceptional items 25 5 Following a sustained decline in trading, the Group undertook a detailed review in the year of its Irish operations and as a result entered into an Examinership process in January 2013.
The 21m restructuring charge represents provisions recorded for the impairment of properties and estimated costs of exiting leases and other closure activities.
The UK restructuring net charge of 16m principally reflects the streamlining of B&Q UK & Irelands store support office and kitchen, bathroom and bedroom business as well as IT services.
It also includes a 4m release 2011 12: 2m of an onerous property contract provision for idle stores either sublet or exited in the period, which had previously been included as part of the B&Q UK store closure and downsizing programme in 2005 06.
In the prior year the Group acquired 29 Focus stores in the UK and incurred 11m of costs integrating these into the B&Q store network.
The net pension gain of 11m includes a 27m curtailment gain arising due to the closure of the UK final salary scheme to future benefit accrual.
Offsetting the gain is a charge of 16m for transitional payments to scheme members.
com 74 ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6 Net finance costs millions 2012 13 2011 12 Bank overdrafts and bank loans 8 12 Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt 7 10 Finance leases 4 5 Financing fair value remeasurements 2 2 Unwinding of discount on provisions 4 Expected net interest charge on defined benefit pension schemes 3 Other interest payable 3 Capitalised interest 1 1 Finance costs 19 31 Cash and cash equivalents 15 19 Expected net interest return on defined benefit pension schemes 2 Finance income 15 21 Net finance costs 4 10 Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt interest includes net interest income accrued on derivatives of 15m 2011 12: 15m income and amortisation of issue costs of borrowings of 1m 2011 12: 1m.
Capitalised interest relates to central borrowings and is calculated by applying a capitalisation rate of 1.6% 2011 12: 2.0% to expenditure on qualifying assets.
Financing fair value remeasurements comprise a net gain on derivatives, excluding accrued interest, of 10m 2011 12: 6m gain, offset by a net loss from fair value adjustments to the carrying value of borrowings and cash of 8m 2011 12: 4m loss.
7 Profit before taxation The following items of revenue have been credited in arriving at profit before taxation: millions 2012 13 2011 12 Sales 10,573 10,831 Other income 36 30 Finance income 15 21 Revenue 10,624 10,882 The following items of expense income have been charged credited in arriving at profit before taxation: millions 2012 13 2011 12 Operating lease rentals Minimum lease payments Property 435 411 Minimum lease payments Equipment 35 37 Sublease income 17 20 453 428 Rental income received on investment property 6 5 1 Amortisation of other intangible assets 27 24 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and investment property Owned assets 212 205 Under finance leases 9 8 2 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and investment property 8 7 Loss on disposal Land and buildings and investment property 3 Fixtures, fittings and equipment 4 3 Other intangible assets 1 1 Inventories: write down to net realisable value 16 14 Trade and other receivables: write down of bad and doubtful debts 4 4 1 Of the amortisation of other intangible assets charge, 1m 2011 12: 3m and 26m 2011 12: 21m are included in selling and distribution expenses and administrative expenses respectively.
2 7m of the 2012 13 charge relates to exceptional Ireland restructuring.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Business review Governance Accounts 75 7 Profit before taxation continued Auditors remuneration millions 2012 13 2011 12 Fees payable for the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 0.3 0.2 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services to the Group: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.3 1.2 Audit fees 1.6 1.4 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Other taxation advisory services 0.1 0.1 Other assurance services 0.1 0.1 Other services 0.1 0.2 Non-audit fees 0.4 0.5 Auditors remuneration 2.0 1.9 Details of the Groups policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services, the reasons why the auditor was used rather than another supplier and how the auditors independence and objectivity was safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 41.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
8 Employees and directors millions 2012 13 2011 12 Wages and salaries 1,276 1,268 Social security costs 258 258 Post employment benefits Defined contribution 17 8 Defined benefit service cost only 17 29 Share-based compensation 9 32 Employee benefit expenses 1,577 1,595 Number thousands 2012 13 2011 12 Stores 72 72 Administration 5 5 Average number of persons employed 77 77 The average number of persons employed excludes employees in the Groups joint ventures and associates.
Remuneration of key management personnel millions 2012 13 2011 12 Short term employee benefits 5.2 8.4 Post employment benefits 1.4 1.0 Share-based compensation 1.3 8.4 7.9 17.8 Key management consists of the Board of Directors and the Group Executive.
Further detail with respect to the Directors remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 59.
Other than as set out in the Directors Remuneration Report, there have been no transactions with key management during the year 2011 12: nil.
com 76 ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9 Income tax expense millions 2012 13 2011 12 UK corporation tax Current tax on profits for the year 47 68 Adjustments in respect of prior years 13 16 34 52 Overseas tax Current tax on profits for the year 128 142 Adjustments in respect of prior years 54 31 74 111 Deferred tax Current year 18 12 Adjustments in respect of prior years 5 12 Adjustments in respect of changes in tax rates 4 5 19 5 Income tax expense 127 158 Factors affecting tax charge for the year The tax charge for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 24% 2011 12: 26%.
The differences are explained below: millions 2012 13 2011 12 Profit before taxation 691 797 Profit multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 24% 2011 12: 26% 166 207 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 5 8 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 6 12 Temporary differences: Net gains on property 3 6 Losses not recognised 11 3 Foreign tax rate differences 18 14 Adjustments in respect of prior years 62 59 Adjustments in respect of changes in tax rates 4 5 Income tax expense 127 158 The effective rate of tax on profit before exceptional items and excluding prior year tax adjustments and the impact of changes in tax rates on deferred tax is 27% 2011 12: 28%.
Tax on exceptional items for the year is a credit of 1m.
In 2011 12 tax on exceptional items was a credit of 7m, 5m of which related to prior year items.
The effective tax rate calculation is set out in the Financial Review on page 20.
The overall tax rate for the year is 18% 2011 12: 20% reflecting the impact on deferred tax of the 2% fall in the UK rate, release of prior year provisions either reassessed or time expired and a claim for the use of prior year losses of 33 million.
In addition to the amounts charged to the income statement, tax of 14m has been charged directly to equity 2011 12: 9m charge, of which a 6m credit 2011 12: 33m credit is included in current tax and a 20m charge 2011 12: 42m charge is included in deferred tax.
Kingfisher paid 138m tax to the French tax authorities in the year ended 31 January 2004 as a consequence of the Kesa Electricals demerger and recorded this as an exceptional tax charge.
Kingfisher appealed successfully against this tax liability and as a result received 169m from the French tax authorities in September 2009, representing a refund of the 138m and 31m of repayment supplement.
The French tax authorities appealed this decision and the hearing took place in May 2011 with the Court of Appeal finding in Kingfishers favour.
The French tax authorities have appealed this decision to the final level of court although a date for this hearing has not yet been set.
Therefore no income has yet been recognised relating to this receipt.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Business review Governance Accounts 77 9 Income tax expense continued Impact of changes in tax rates The UK corporation tax rate fell from 26% to 24% from 1 April 2012 and will fall to 23% from 1 April 2013.
A further reduction to 21% was announced in 2012, which is expected to take effect from 1 April 2014, and a subsequent reduction to 20% was announced in 2013, which is expected to take effect from 1 April 2015.
Since these further reductions have not yet been substantively enacted, their impact is not included in these financial statements.
The combined effect would be to reduce the net deferred tax liability as reported at 2 February 2013 by 9m.
10 Earnings per share 2012 13 2011 12 Weighted Weighted average average number of Earnings number of Earnings Earnings shares Earnings shares per share per share millions millions pence millions millions pence Basic earnings per share 564 2,339 24.1 640 2,331 27.5 Dilutive share options 34 0.3 44 0.6 Diluted earnings per share 564 2,373 23.8 640 2,375 26.9 Basic earnings per share 564 2,339 24.1 640 2,331 27.5 Exceptional items 26 1.1 12 0.5 Tax on exceptional and prior year items 67 2.8 66 2.8 Financing fair value remeasurements 2 0.1 2 0.1 Tax on financing fair value remeasurements 1 Adjusted basic earnings per share 522 2,339 22.3 584 2,331 25.1 Diluted earnings per share 564 2,373 23.8 640 2,375 26.9 Exceptional items 26 1.1 12 0.5 Tax on exceptional and prior year items 67 2.8 66 2.7 Financing fair value remeasurements 2 0.1 2 0.1 Tax on financing fair value remeasurements 1 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 522 2,373 22.0 584 2,375 24.6 Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust ESOP which for the purpose of this calculation are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
These represent share options granted to employees where both the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys shares during the year and any related performance conditions have been met.
11 Dividends millions 2012 13 2011 12 Dividends to equity shareholders of the Company Final dividend for the year ended 28 January 2012 of 6.37p per share 29 January 2011: 5.145p per share 148 121 Interim dividend for the year ended 2 February 2013 of 3.09p per share 28 January 2012: 2.47p per share 73 57 221 178 The proposed final dividend for the year ended 2 February 2013 of 6.37p per share is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
com 78 ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12 Goodwill millions Cost At 29 January 2012 2,521 Exchange differences 3 At 2 February 2013 2,524 Impairment At 29 January 2012 124 Exchange differences 1 At 2 February 2013 125 Net carrying amount At 2 February 2013 2,399 Cost At 30 January 2011 2,512 Additions 2 Exchange differences 7 At 28 January 2012 2,521 Impairment At 30 January 2011 117 Exchange differences 7 At 28 January 2012 124 Net carrying amount At 28 January 2012 2,397 Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to groups of cash generating units CGUs as follows: millions UK France Poland China Total At 2 February 2013 Cost 1,798 520 81 125 2,524 Impairment 125 125 Net carrying amount 1,798 520 81 2,399 At 28 January 2012 Cost 1,798 518 81 124 2,521 Impairment 124 124 Net carrying amount 1,798 518 81 2,397 The recoverable amounts of these groups of CGUs have been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
The groups of CGUs for which the carrying amount of goodwill is deemed significant are the UK, France and Poland.
The Board have reviewed a sensitivity analysis, including the use of prior year discount and growth rates, and do not consider that a reasonably possible change in the assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations would cause the carrying amounts of the CGUs to exceed their recoverable amounts.
The key assumptions used for value-in-use calculations are set out below.
Assumptions The cash flow projections are based on approved financial budgets and strategic plans covering a four year period.
These are based on both past performance and expectations for future market development.
Key drivers in the plans are like-for-like LFL sales, margin and operating profit percentage.
LFL sales are based on the Groups market expectations and the CGUs market shares.
Cash flows beyond this four year period are calculated using a growth rate which does not exceed the long term average growth rate for retail businesses operating in the same countries as the CGUs.
The weighted average cost of capital, used to discount future cash flows, is calculated using a combination of the cost of debt, leases and equity, weighted according to an estimate of the CGUs capital gearing.
A risk adjustment is also made for the country in which the CGU operates.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Business review Governance Accounts 79 12 Goodwill continued UK The risk-adjusted discount rate of 8.9% 2011 12: 10.5% is pre-tax and reflects the specific risks inherent in the UK market.
France The risk-adjusted discount rate of 9.6% 2011 12: 13.3% is pre-tax and reflects the specific risks inherent in the French market.
Poland The risk-adjusted discount rate of 10.5% 2011 12: 14.7% is pre-tax and reflects the specific risks inherent in the Polish market.
13 Other intangible assets Computer millions software Other Total Cost At 29 January 2012 343 9 352 Additions 72 72 Disposals 3 3 Exchange differences 2 2 At 2 February 2013 414 9 423 Amortisation At 29 January 2012 226 3 229 Charge for the year 26 1 27 Disposals 1 1 Exchange differences 2 2 At 2 February 2013 253 4 257 Net carrying amount At 2 February 2013 161 5 166 Cost At 30 January 2011 293 13 306 Additions 61 61 Disposals 10 4 14 Exchange differences 1 1 At 28 January 2012 343 9 352 Amortisation At 30 January 2011 213 7 220 Charge for the year 23 1 24 Disposals 9 4 13 Exchange differences 1 1 2 At 28 January 2012 226 3 229 Net carrying amount At 28 January 2012 117 6 123 None of the Groups other intangible assets have indefinite useful lives.
com 80 ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, Land and fittings and millions buildings equipment Total Cost At 29 January 2012 3,049 2,375 5,424 Additions 88 171 259 Disposals 19 42 61 Transfers to investment property 12 12 Exchange differences 74 36 110 At 2 February 2013 3,180 2,540 5,720 Depreciation At 29 January 2012 345 1,412 1,757 Charge for the year 46 174 220 Impairment losses 1 7 8 Disposals 5 37 42 Exchange differences 9 20 29 At 2 February 2013 396 1,576 1,972 Net carrying amount At 2 February 2013 2,784 964 3,748 Cost At 30 January 2011 2,989 2,246 5,235 Additions 167 206 373 Disposals 13 50 63 Transfers to investment property 25 25 Exchange differences 69 27 96 At 28 January 2012 3,049 2,375 5,424 Depreciation At 30 January 2011 309 1,294 1,603 Charge for the year 43 169 212 Impairment losses 4 3 7 Disposals 8 45 53 Exchange differences 3 9 12 At 28 January 2012 345 1,412 1,757 Net carrying amount At 28 January 2012 2,704 963 3,667 Assets in the course of construction included above at net carrying amount At 2 February 2013 81 46 127 At 28 January 2012 49 64 113 Assets held under finance leases included above at net carrying amount At 2 February 2013 19 34 53 At 28 January 2012 20 29 49 The amount of borrowing costs capitalised in property, plant and equipment in the year has been 1m 2011 12: 1m.
The cumulative total of borrowing costs included at the balance sheet date, net of depreciation, is 27m 2011 12: 26m.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Business review Governance Accounts 81 14 Property, plant and equipment continued Land and buildings are analysed as follows: 2012 13 2011 12 Long Short millions Freehold leasehold leasehold Total Total Cost 2,443 136 601 3,180 3,049 Depreciation 139 6 251 396 345 Net carrying amount 2,304 130 350 2,784 2,704 Properties that were held at 1 February 2004 are carried at deemed cost, being the fair value of land and buildings as at the transition date to IFRS.
Fair value is taken to be the open market value at the date of valuation.
All property acquired after 1 February 2004 is carried at cost.
Included in land and buildings is leasehold land that is in effect a prepayment for the use of land and is accordingly being amortised on a straight line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets.
The net carrying amount of leasehold land included in land and buildings at 2 February 2013 is 240m 2011 12: 237m.
The Group does not revalue properties within its financial statements.
A valuation exercise is performed for internal purposes annually in November by independent external valuers covering over one third of the property portfolio with the remaining portfolio valued internally.
Based on this exercise the value of property is 3.5 billion 2011 12: 3.4bn.
The key assumption used in calculating this is the estimated yields.
15 Investment property millions Cost At 29 January 2012 67 Additions 3 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 12 Exchange differences 3 At 2 February 2013 79 Depreciation At 29 January 2012 12 Charge for the year 1 At 2 February 2013 13 Net carrying amount At 2 February 2013 66 Cost At 30 January 2011 44 Additions 9 Disposals 9 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 25 Exchange differences 2 At 28 January 2012 67 Depreciation At 30 January 2011 12 Charge for the year 1 Exchange differences 1 At 28 January 2012 12 Net carrying amount At 28 January 2012 55 A property valuation exercise is performed for internal purposes annually as described in note 14.
Based on this exercise the fair value of investment property is 121m 2011 12: 90m.
com 82 ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16 Subsidiaries A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 4 of the Companys separate financial statements.
17 Investments in joint ventures and associates millions At 29 January 2012 271 Share of post-tax results 20 Dividends 10 Exchange differences 8 At 2 February 2013 289 At 30 January 2011 259 Share of post-tax results 32 Dividends 10 Exchange differences 10 At 28 January 2012 271 No goodwill is included in the carrying amount of investments in joint ventures and associates 2011 12: nil.
Details of the significant joint ventures and associates are shown below: Country of Class of incorporation % interest held shares owned Main activity Principal joint ventures 1 Kotas Yapi Marketleri Ticaret A. S. Turkey50% Ordinary Retailing Principal associates 2 Hornbach Holding A. G. Germany21% Ordinary & Retailing preference Crealfi S. A. France 49% Ordinary Finance 1 Owing to local conditions, this company prepares its financial statements to 31 December.
2 This company prepares its financial statements to 28 February or 29 February in a leap year.
In order to avoid undue delay in the presentation of the Group financial statements, the Group records its share of post-tax results for the year ended 30 November.
The value of the Groups investment based on published price quotations at 2 February 2013 was 195m 2011 12: 178m.
Aggregate amounts relating to joint ventures and associates: 2012 13 2011 12 millions Joint ventures Associates Total Joint ventures Associates Total Non-current assets 28 269 297 29 249 278 Current assets 56 303 359 59 296 355 Current liabilities 47 211 258 54 195 249 Non-current liabilities 8 101 109 2 111 113 Share of net assets 29 260 289 32 239 271 Sales 165 605 770 166 608 774 Operating expenses 156 576 732 152 570 722 Operating profit 92938 14 38 52 Net finance costs 3 7 10 2 7 9 Profit before taxation 62228 12 31 43 Income tax expense 1 7 8 2 9 11 Share of post-tax results 5 15 20 10 22 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Business review Governance Accounts 83 18 Inventories millions 2012 13 2011 12 Finished goods for resale 2,083 1,844 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales for the year ended 2 February 2013 is 6,093m 2011 12: 6,304m.
19 Trade and other receivables millions 2012 13 2011 12 Non-current Prepayments 13 13 Property receivables 2 2 Other receivables 3 2 18 17 Current Trade receivables 50 61 Provision for bad and doubtful debts 11 12 Net trade receivables 39 49 Property receivables 3 3 Prepayments 135 141 Other receivables 368 338 545 531 Trade and other receivables 563 548 Other receivables principally comprise rebates due from suppliers.
The fair values of trade and other receivables approximate to their carrying amounts.
Refer to note 24 for information on the credit risk associated with trade and other receivables.
20 Cash and cash equivalents millions 2012 13 2011 12 Cash at bank and in hand 268 271 Short term deposits 130 316 398 587 Short term deposits comprise bank deposits and investments in money market funds, fixed for periods of up to three months.
The fair values of cash and cash equivalents approximate to their carrying amounts.
com 84 ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21 Trade and other payables millions 2012 13 2011 12 Current Trade payables 1,370 1,256 Other taxation and social security 227 229 Deferred income 168 153 Accruals and other payables 665 718 2,430 2,356 Non-current Accruals and other payables 115 121 Trade and other payables 2,545 2,477 Accruals include allowance for customer returns, representing the estimate of future sales returns at the year end.
The fair values of trade and other payables approximate to their carrying amounts.
22 Borrowings millions 2012 13 2011 12 Current Bank overdrafts 102 Bank loans 54 82 Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt 32 172 Finance leases 13 11 99 367 Non-current Bank loans 14 16 Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt 266 306 Finance leases 52 53 332 375 Borrowings 431 742 Bank overdrafts and loans Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and current bank loans mature within the next 12 months.
Bank overdrafts are arranged at floating rates of interest.
Current bank loans include Chinese Renminbi loans drawn under committed facilities expiring in 2013.
These loans bear interest based on the Peoples Bank of China reference rate and are fixed for periods of up to six months.
At the year end the effective borrowing rate on the drawn amounts was 6.2% 2011 12: 6.2%.
Other current bank loans are arranged at floating rates of interest.
Non-current bank loans have an average maturity of three years 2011 12: three years and are arranged at fixed rates of interest with an effective interest rate of 3.8% 2011 12: 3.6%.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Business review Governance Accounts 85 22 Borrowings continued Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt Medium Term Notes MTNs were issued in prior years under the Groups 2,500m MTN programme and further notes issued as a US Private Placement USPP.
2012 13 2011 12 Principal Effective Carrying Carrying millions outstanding Maturity date Coupon interest rate amount amount 1 Euro MTN nil 23 11 12 4.13% 4.3% 172 2 US Dollar USPP $50m 24 05 13 6.14% 6.1% 32 34 3 Sterling MTN 73m 15 12 14 5.63% 5.8% 78 80 2 US Dollar USPP $68m 24 05 16 6.30% 6.3% 49 51 2 US Dollar USPP $179m 24 05 18 6.40% 6.4% 139 141 298 478 1 Swapped to floating rate Euro based on 3 month EURIBOR plus a margin using an interest rate swap.
2 $297m swapped to floating rate Sterling based on 6 month LIBOR plus a margin using a cross-currency interest rate swap.
3 Swapped to floating rate Euro based on 3 month EURIBOR plus a margin using a cross-currency interest rate swap.
The Group values its MTNs and USPP on an amortised cost basis, adjusted for fair value gains and losses based on observable market inputs attributable to the risk being hedged in designated and effective fair value hedge relationships.
The carrying amounts of the MTNs and USPP have been impacted both by exchange rate movements and fair value adjustments for interest rate risk.
At 2 February 2013, the cumulative effect of interest rate fair value adjustments is to increase the Groups MTNs and USPP carrying amounts by 38m 2011 12: 49m increase.
The USPP contains a covenant requiring that, as at the end of each semi-annual and annual financial reporting period, the ratio of operating profit to net interest payable, excluding exceptional items, should not be less than 3 to 1 for the preceding 12 month period.
The Group has complied with this covenant for the year ended 2 February 2013.
Finance leases The Group leases certain of its buildings and fixtures and equipment under finance leases.
The average lease term maturity for buildings is seven years 2011 12: seven years and for fixtures and equipment is two years 2011 12: two years.
Certain building leases include a clause to enable upward revision of the rental charge to prevailing market conditions.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases, together with the present value of minimum lease payments, are as follows: 2012 13 2011 12 Present value Minimum Present value Minimum millions of payments payments of payments payments Less than one year 13 15 11 14 One to five years 30 42 29 39 More than five years 22 31 24 35 Total 65 88 64 88 Less amounts representing finance charges 23 24 Present value of minimum lease payments 65 64 The interest rates inherent in the finance leases are fixed at the contract date for the lease term.
The weighted average effective interest rate on the Groups finance leases is 8.5% 2011 12: 8.4%.
com 86 ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22 Borrowings continued Fair value of borrowings The fair values of current borrowings approximate to their carrying amounts.
Where available, market values have been used to determine the fair values of non-current borrowings.
Where market values are not available or are not reliable, fair values have been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest and foreign exchange rates.
The carrying amounts and fair values of non-current borrowings are as follows: 2012 13 2011 12 Carrying Carrying millions amount Fair value amount Fair value Bank loans 14 12 16 16 Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt 266 274 306 314 Finance leases 52 82 53 84 332 368 375 414 Assets worth RMB 1.6bn 163m secure a bank facility in China, which matures in July 2013 2011 12: RMB 1.6bn.
23 Derivatives The net fair value of derivatives by hedge designation at the balance sheet date is: millions 2012 13 2011 12 Fair value hedges 69 64 Cash flow hedges 14 9 Net investment hedges 18 Non-designated hedges 22 5 59 78 Non-current assets 55 66 Current assets 33 26 Current liabilities 17 6 Non-current liabilities 12 8 59 78 The fair values are calculated by discounting future cash flows arising from the instruments and adjusting for credit risk.
These fair value measurements are all made using observable market rates of interest, foreign exchange and credit risk and are therefore classified as level 2 in the IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures, fair value hierarchy.
At 2 February 2013 net derivative assets included in net debt amount to 71m 2011 12: 67m net derivative assets.
Fair value hedges Fair value hedges comprise interest rate swap contracts that convert fixed rate debt issued under the Groups Medium Term Note programme and the US Private Placement to floating rate liabilities, along with certain cross-currency swaps.
At 2 February 2013 the Sterling equivalent amount of such contracts is 261m 2011 12: 516m.
During the year, interest rate swaps have expired to coincide with the final repayment of underlying debt.
The Sterling equivalent amount of those expired swaps at year end exchange rates was 174m.
Cash flow hedges Forward foreign exchange contracts hedge currency exposures of forecast inventory purchases.
At 2 February 2013 the Sterling equivalent amount of such contracts is 441m 2011 12: 376m.
The associated fair value gains and losses will be transferred to inventories when the purchases occur during the next 12 months.
Gains of 8m 2011 12: 8m losses have been transferred to inventories for contracts which matured during the year.
Net investment hedges Cross-currency interest rate swaps hedge currency exposures of overseas investments.
At 2 February 2013 the Sterling equivalent amount of such contracts is 90m 2011 12: nil.
Non-designated hedges The Group has entered into certain derivatives to provide a hedge against fluctuations in the income statement arising from balance sheet positions.
At 2 February 2013 the Sterling equivalent amount of such contracts is 1,062m 2011 12: 715m.
These have not been accounted for as hedges, since the fair value movements of the derivatives in the income statement offset the retranslation of the balance sheet positions.
These include short term foreign exchange contracts.
The Group has reviewed all significant contracts for embedded derivatives and none of these contracts has any embedded derivatives which are not closely related to the host contract and therefore the Group is not required to account for these separately.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Business review Governance Accounts 87 24 Financial risk management Kingfishers treasury function has primary responsibility for managing certain financial risks to which the Group is exposed.
The Board reviews the levels of exposure regularly and approves treasury policies covering the use of financial instruments required to manage these risks.
Kingfishers treasury function is not run as a profit centre and does not enter into any transactions for speculative purposes.
In the normal course of business the Group uses financial instruments including derivatives.
The main types of financial instruments used are Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt, bank loans and deposits, money market funds, interest rate swaps, commodity swaps and foreign exchange contracts.
Interest rate risk Borrowings arranged at floating rates of interest expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk, whereas those arranged at fixed rates of interest expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Group manages its interest rate risk by entering into certain interest rate derivative contracts which modify the interest rate payable on the Groups underlying debt instruments, principally the Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt.
Currency risk The Groups principal currency exposures are to the Euro, US Dollar, Polish Zloty and Chinese Renminbi.
The Euro, Polish Zloty and Chinese Renminbi exposures are operational and arise through the ownership of retail businesses in France, Spain, Ireland, Poland and China.
In particular, the Group generates a substantial part of its profit from the Eurozone, and as such is exposed to the economic uncertainty of its member states.
The Group continues to monitor potential exposures and risks, and develop effective risk management solutions.
Balance sheet Euro translation exposure is currently hedged by maintaining a proportion of the Groups debt in Euro, whilst Chinese Renminbi balance sheet translation exposure is partly hedged by local debt in China.
It is the Groups policy not to hedge the translation of overseas earnings into Sterling.
In addition, the Group has significant transactional exposure arising on the purchase of inventories denominated in US Dollars, which it hedges using forward foreign exchange contracts.
Under Group policies, the Group companies are required to hedge committed inventory purchases and a proportion of forecast inventory purchases arising in the next 12 months, and this is monitored on an ongoing basis.
Kingfishers policy is to manage the interest rate and currency profile of its issued debt using derivative contracts.
The effect of these contracts on the Groups net debt cash is as follows: Sterling Euro US Dollar Other millions Fixed Floating Fixed Floating Fixed Floating Fixed Floating Total At 2 February 2013 Net cash before fair value adjustments and financing derivatives 114 91 39 135 188 3 103 14 5 Fair value adjustments to net cash 6 32 38 Financing derivatives 78 1,064 192 222 315 328 71 Net cash 42 973 39 327 2 318 103 342 38 At 28 January 2012 Net debt before fair value adjustments and financing derivatives 134 7 183 290 189 2 90 11 106 Fair value adjustments to net debt 8 3 38 49 Financing derivatives 81 892 171 97 293 262 249 67 Net debt 61 885 15 193 66 264 90 260 88 www.
com 88 ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24 Financial risk management continued Financial instruments principally affected by interest rate and currency risks, being the significant market risks impacting Kingfisher, are borrowings, deposits and derivatives.
The following analysis illustrates the sensitivity of net finance costs reflecting the impact on profit and derivative cash flow hedges reflecting the impact on other comprehensive income to changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
2012 13 2011 12 Net finance Net finance costs costs Income Income millions costs costs Effect of 1% rise in interest rates on net finance costs Sterling 10 9 Euro 3 2 US Dollar 3 3 Polish Zloty 3 2 Chinese Renminbi Due to the Groups hedging arrangements and offsetting foreign currency assets and liabilities, there is no significant impact on profit from the retranslation of financial instruments.
2012 13 2011 12 Derivative Derivative cash flow cash flow hedges hedges Increase Increase millions decrease decrease Effect of 10% appreciation in foreign exchange rates on derivative cash flow hedges US Dollar against Sterling 18 17 US Dollar against Euro 21 15 The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on cash flow hedges results from retranslation of forward purchases of US Dollars used to hedge forecast US Dollar purchases of inventories.
The associated fair value gains and losses are deferred in equity until the purchases occur.
See note 23 for further details.
The retranslation of foreign currency borrowings and derivatives designated as hedges of net investments in foreign operations is reported in equity and offset by the retranslation of the hedged net investments.
The sensitivity analysis excludes the impact of movements in market variables on the carrying amount of trade and other payables and receivables, due to the low associated sensitivity, and are before the effect of tax.
It has been prepared on the basis that the Groups debt, hedging activities, hedge accounting designations, and foreign currency proportion of debt and derivative contracts remain constant, reflecting the positions at 2 February 2013 and 28 January 2012 respectively.
As a consequence, the analysis relates to the position at those dates and is not necessarily representative of the years then ended.
In preparing the sensitivity analysis it is assumed that all hedges are fully effective.
The effects shown above would be reversed in the event of an equal and opposite change in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Business review Governance Accounts 89 24 Financial risk management continued Liquidity risk The Group regularly reviews the level of cash and debt facilities required to fund its activities.
This involves preparing a prudent cash flow forecast for the next three years, determining the level of debt facilities required to fund the business, planning for repayments of debt at its maturity and identifying an appropriate amount of headroom to provide a reserve against unexpected outflows.
The following table analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative assets and liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
It excludes trade and other payables due to the low associated liquidity risk.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows including interest and as such may differ from the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet.
Less than More than millions 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total At 2 February 2013 Bank loans 55 4 2 4 5 70 Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt 47 87 10 52 7 117 320 Finance leases 15 16 12 8 6 31 88 Derivatives receipts 47 87 10 52 7 117 320 Derivatives payments 30 93 2 39 2 98 264 At 28 January 2012 Bank overdrafts 102 102 Bank loans 85 6 4 2 4 101 Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt 191 47 87 10 52 125 512 Finance leases 14 13 11 9 6 35 88 Derivatives receipts 23 47 87 10 52 125 344 Derivatives payments 7 31 90 3 39 101 271 At 2 February 2013 the Group has an undrawn revolving facility of 200m which matures in August 2016.
The 200m facility contains a covenant requiring that, as at the end of each annual and semi-annual financial reporting period, the ratio of operating profit to net interest payable, excluding exceptional items, should not be less than 3 to 1 for the preceding 12 month period.
The Group has complied with this covenant for the year ended 2 February 2013. Credit risk The Group deposits surplus cash with a number of banks with the strongest short term credit ratings and with money market funds which have AAA credit ratings and offer same day liquidity.
A credit limit for each counterparty is agreed by the Board covering the full value of deposits and a proportion of the fair value of derivative contracts.
The credit risk is reduced further by spreading the investments and derivative contracts across several counterparties.
At 2 February 2013, the highest cash deposit with a single counterparty was 32m 2011 12: 63m.
The Groups exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of cash at bank and short term deposits and the fair value of derivative assets.
No further credit risk provision is required in excess of the normal provision for bad and doubtful debts as the Group has a low concentration of credit risk in respect of trade receivables.
Concentration of risk is limited as a result of low individual balances with short maturity spread across a large number of unrelated customers.
At 2 February 2013, trade and other receivables that are past due but not provided against amount to 41m 2011 12: 62m, of which 3m 2011 12: 3m are over 120 days past due.
Refer also to note 35 for details on guarantees provided by the Group.
Capital risk Capital risk management disclosures are provided in the Financial review on page 24. www.
com 90 ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25 Deferred tax millions 2012 13 2011 12 Deferred tax assets 17 23 Deferred tax liabilities 303 269 286 246 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction and when the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Accelerated Post tax Gains on employment millions depreciation property Provisions Tax losses benefits Other Total At 29 January 2012 115 144 33 7 30 3 246 Charge credit to income statement 17 14 15 1 2 19 Charge credit to equity 27 7 20 Exchange differences 4 2 2 2 1 1 At 2 February 2013 136 132 20 8 57 11 286 At 30 January 2011 98 161 27 2 11 8 211 Charge credit to income statement 22 16 8 6 4 1 5 Charge to equity 36 6 42 Exchange differences 5 1 2 1 1 2 At 28 January 2012 115 144 33 7 30 3 246 At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of 243m 2011 12: 246m available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of 24m 2011 12: 23m of such losses.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining 219m 2011 12: 223m due to the unpredictability of future profit streams.
Included in unrecognised tax losses are tax losses arising in China of 187m 2011 12: 210m which can be carried forward only in the next one to five years.
Other unrecognised losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
No deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of 2,980m 2011 12: 114m relating to the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures.
This is because the earnings are continually reinvested by the Group and therefore no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future.
The total temporary difference has increased significantly in the period largely as a result of changes introduced by the French government to apply a surtax on gross dividend distributions paid by French entities.
Previously only 5% of dividend income received in France was potentially subject to tax at the prevailing corporate income tax rate.
Hence as a result of the surtax the total earnings on which the tax would be chargeable, should they be remitted from or through France, has increased considerably.
26 Provisions Onerous property millions contracts Restructuring Total At 29 January 2012 21 38 59 Charge to income statement 2 50 52 Credit to income statement 4 4 Utilised in the year 2 32 34 At 2 February 2013 21 52 73 Current liabilities 4 31 35 Non-current liabilities 17 21 38 21 52 73 Within the onerous property contracts provisions, Kingfisher has provided against future liabilities for all properties sublet at a shortfall and long term idle properties, except those related to restructuring programmes which are included in the restructuring provisions.
The provisions are based on the present value of future cash outflows relating to rent, rates and service charges.
Restructuring provisions include the estimated costs of the UK, Ireland and China restructuring programmes.
The provisions have been discounted to reflect the time value of money and the risks associated with the specific liabilities.
The ultimate costs and timing of cash flows related to the above provisions are largely dependent on exiting the property lease contracts and subletting surplus space.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Business review Governance Accounts 91 27 Post employment benefits The Group operates a variety of post employment benefit arrangements covering both funded and unfunded defined benefit schemes and funded defined contribution schemes.
The most significant are the funded, final salary defined benefit and defined contribution schemes for the Groups UK employees.
Various defined benefit and defined contribution schemes are operated in France and Poland, where they are principally retirement indemnity in nature, and in China.
The overseas schemes are not material in relation to the Group as a whole.
Defined contribution schemes Pension costs for defined contribution schemes, at rates specified in the individual schemes rules, are as follows: millions 2012 13 2011 12 Charge to operating profit 17 8 From July 2012 an enhanced defined contribution scheme has been offered to all UK employees.
Eligible UK employees will be automatically enrolled into the defined contribution scheme from 31 March 2013.
Defined benefit schemes The Groups principal defined benefit pension scheme is in the UK.
The assets of this scheme are held separately from the Group in trustee-administered funds.
The Trustees are required to act in the best interests of the schemes beneficiaries.
A full actuarial valuation of the scheme is carried out every three years by an independent actuary for the scheme Trustee and the last full valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2010.
The Company monitors the scheme funding level on a regular basis and will review with the scheme Trustee at future valuations the continued appropriateness of the repayment schedule currently in place.
During the year, and following consultation with the active members, the UK final salary pension scheme was closed to future benefit accrual with effect from 30 June 2012.
The scheme had been closed to new entrants in 2004.
The closure to future accrual resulted in an exceptional non-cash curtailment gain of 27m, representing the one-off reduction in accounting liabilities as benefits are no longer linked to future salary increases other than in line with inflation.
UK scheme interest in property partnership In 2010 11, the Group established a partnership, Kingfisher Scottish Limited Partnership Kingfisher SLP, as part of an arrangement with the UK scheme Trustee to address an element of the scheme deficit and provide greater security to the Trustee.
The partnership interests are held by the Group and by the scheme, the latter resulting from investments of 78m and 106m made by the Trustee in January and June 2011 respectively.
These investments followed Group contributions of the same amounts into the scheme.
Under IAS 19, Employee benefits, the investments held by the scheme in Kingfisher SLP do not represent plan assets for the purposes of the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly the reported pension position does not reflect these investments.
The Group has control over the partnership and therefore it is consolidated in these Group financial statements.
Accordingly, advantage has been taken of the exemptions provided by Regulation 7 of the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 from the requirements for preparation, delivery and publication of the partnerships accounts.
UK property assets with market values of 83m and 119m were transferred, in January 2011 and June 2011 respectively, into the partnership and leased back to B&Q plc.
The Group retains control over these properties, including the flexibility to substitute alternative properties.
The Trustee has a first charge over the properties in the event that Kingfisher plc becomes insolvent.
The schemes partnership interest entitles it to the majority of the income of the partnership over the 20 year period of the arrangement.
The payments to the scheme by Kingfisher SLP over this term are reflected as Group pension contributions on a cash basis.
At the end of this term, Kingfisher plc has the option to acquire the Trustees partnership interest in Kingfisher SLP.
Income statement 2012 13 2011 12 millions UK Other Total UK Other Total Amounts charged credited to operating profit Current service cost 13 4 17 24 5 29 Exceptional curtailment gain 27 27 14 4 10 24 5 29 Amounts charged credited to net finance costs Interest on defined benefit obligations 84 3 87 90 3 93 Expected return on pension scheme assets 83 1 84 94 1 95 123 4 2 2 Total credited charged to income statement 13 6 7 20 7 27 Of the net credit to operating profit, a 12m charge 2011 12: 22m charge and 22m credit 2011 12: 7m charge are included in selling and distribution expenses and administrative expenses respectively.
Actuarial gains and losses have been reported in the statement of comprehensive income.
com 92 ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27 Post employment benefits continued Balance sheet 2012 13 2011 12 millions UK Other Total UK Other Total Present value of defined benefit obligations 1,994 93 2,087 1,902 60 1,962 Fair value of scheme assets 2,065 22 2,087 1,927 20 1,947 Surplus deficit in scheme 71 71 25 40 15 The amount of the defined benefit obligation at 2 February 2013 which relates to funded defined benefit schemes is 2,087m 2011 12: 1,962m.
Movements in the surplus or deficit are as follows: 2012 13 2011 12 millions UK Other Total UK Other Total Surplus deficit in scheme at beginning of year 25 40 15 21 37 58 Current service cost 13 4 17 24 5 29 Exceptional curtailment gain 27 27 Interest on defined benefit obligations 84 3 87 90 3 93 Expected return on pension scheme assets 83 1 84 94 1 95 Actuarial losses gains 7 22 29 18 2 20 Contributions paid by employer 40 1 41 48 1 49 Exchange differences 4 4 1 1 Surplus deficit in scheme at end of year 71 71 25 40 15 Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations are as follows: 2012 13 2011 12 millions UK Other Total UK Other Total Present value of defined benefit obligations at beginning of year 1,902 60 1,962 1,646 57 1,703 Current service cost 13 4 17 24 5 29 Exceptional curtailment gain 27 27 Interest on defined benefit obligations 84 3 87 90 3 93 Actuarial losses gains 80 22 102 197 2 195 Contributions paid by employees 5 5 7 7 Benefits paid 63 1 64 62 1 63 Exchange differences 5 5 2 2 Present value of defined benefit obligations at end of year 1,994 93 2,087 1,902 60 1,962 Movements in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows: 2012 13 2011 12 millions UK Other Total UK Other Total Fair value of scheme assets at beginning of year 1,927 20 1,947 1,625 20 1,645 Expected return on pension scheme assets 83 1 84 94 1 95 Actuarial gains on pension scheme assets 73 73 215 215 Contributions paid by employer 40 1 41 48 1 49 Contributions paid by employees 5 5 7 7 Benefits paid 63 1 64 62 1 63 Exchange differences 11 1 1 Fair value of scheme assets at end of year 2,065 22 2,087 1,927 20 1,947 The fair value of scheme assets is analysed as follows: 2012 13 2011 12 millions UK Other Total % of total UK Other Total % of total Equities 552 552 26% 486 486 25% Bonds 1,367 1,367 66% 1,298 1,298 67% Property 70 70 3% 87 87 4% Other 76 22 98 5% 56 20 76 4% Total fair value of scheme assets 2,065 22 2,087 100% 1,927 20 1,947 100% Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Business review Governance Accounts 93 27 Post employment benefits continued The actual return on pension scheme assets is as follows: 2012 13 2011 12 millions UK Other Total UK Other Total Actual return on pension scheme assets 156 1 157 309 1 310 The estimated amount of total contributions to be paid to the UK and overseas pension schemes by the Group during the next financial year is 32m.
Amounts for the current and previous four years millions 2012 13 2011 12 2010 11 2009 10 2008 09 Present value of defined benefit obligations 2,087 1,962 1,703 1,716 1,437 Fair value of scheme assets 2,087 1,947 1,645 1,518 1,363 Deficit in scheme 15 58 198 74 Changes in assumptions underlying present value of defined benefit obligations 98 195 40 226 21 Percentage of defined benefit obligations 5% 10% 2% 13% 1% Experience losses gains arising on defined benefit obligations 4 34 1 Percentage of defined benefit obligations 2% Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 73 215 54 61 211 Percentage of scheme assets 3% 11% 3% 4% 15% Total losses gains recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the year 29 20 128 165 191 Cumulative losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 220 191 Principal actuarial valuation assumptions The assumptions used in calculating the costs and obligations of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes are set by the Directors after consultation with independent professionally qualified actuaries.
The assumptions are based on the conditions at the time and changes in these assumptions can lead to significant movements in the estimated obligations, as illustrated in the sensitivity analysis.
The UK scheme discount rate is based on the yield on the iBoxx over 15 year AA-rated Sterling corporate bond index adjusted for the difference in term between iBoxx and scheme liabilities.
The overall expected rate of return on scheme assets reflects market expectations at the valuation date of long term asset returns and the mix of assets in the schemes.
2012 13 2011 12 Annual % rate UK Other UK Other Discount rate 4.6 2.8 4.5 4.6 Salary escalation n a 2.0 to 6.7 3.8 2.0 to 6.7 Rate of pension increases 3.3 3.0 Price inflation 3.3 2.0 3.0 2.0 2012 13 2011 12 % rate of return UK Other UK Other Equities 7.6 7.6 Bonds 3.5 3.4 Property 5.9 5.8 Other 2.4 3.5 2.6 3.5 Overall expected rate of return 4.6 3.5 4.5 3.5 For the UK scheme, the mortality assumptions used in the actuarial valuations have been selected with regard to the characteristics and experience of the membership of the scheme from 2007 to 2010.
The base mortality assumptions have been derived by adjusting standard mortality tables SAPS tables projected forward to 2010 with the medium cohort improvement factors for males and with the standard improvement factors for females.
In addition, allowance has been made for future increases in life expectancy.
For males, the allowance is in line with medium cohort improvements subject to a minimum rate of improvement of 1% pa, and for females, the allowance is in line with the average of the standard series and long cohort improvements, subject to a minimum of 1% pa.
These improvements take into account trends observed within the scheme over the past decade and general population trends.
com 94 ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27 Post employment benefits continued The assumptions for life expectancy of UK scheme members are as follows: Years 2012 13 2011 12 Age to which current pensioners are expected to live 60 now Male 86.4 86.4 Female 87.1 87.1 Age to which future pensioners are expected to live 60 in 15 years time Male 87.1 87.1 Female 88.7 88.7 The following sensitivity analysis for the UK scheme shows the estimated impact on obligations resulting from changes to key actuarial assumptions, whilst holding all other assumptions constant.
Assumption Change in assumption Impact on defined benefit obligation Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.1% Decrease increase by 38m Rate of pension increases Increase decrease by 0.1% Increase decrease by 25m Price inflation Increase decrease by 0.1% Increase decrease by 38m Mortality Increase in life expectancy by one year Increase by 62m 28 Share capital Number of Ordinary ordinary shares share capital millions millions At 29 January 2012 2,369 372 New shares issued under share schemes 3 1 At 2 February 2013 2,372 373 At 30 January 2011 2,364 371 New shares issued under share schemes 5 1 At 28 January 2012 2,369 372 29 Other reserves Cash flow Translation millions hedge reserve reserve Other Total At 29 January 2012 7 247 159 413 Currency translation differences Group 122 122 Joint ventures and associates 8 8 Cash flow hedges Fair value losses 14 14 Gains transferred to inventories 8 8 Tax on other comprehensive income 7 3 4 Other comprehensive income for the year 15 127 112 At 2 February 2013 8 374 159 525 At 30 January 2011 5 385 159 539 Currency translation differences Group 129 129 Joint ventures and associates 10 10 Cash flow hedges Fair value gains 10 10 Losses transferred to inventories 8 8 Tax on other comprehensive income 6 1 5 Other comprehensive income for the year 12 138 126 At 28 January 2012 7 247 159 413 The other category of reserve represents the premium on the issue of convertible loan stock in 1993 and the merger reserve relating to the acquisition of Darty in 1993.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Business review Governance Accounts 95 30 Share-based payments 2012 13 2011 12 Weighted Weighted average exercise average exercise Options price Options price Number Number Outstanding at beginning of year 89,247,441 0.33 77,771,222 0.42 1, 2 Granted during the year 12,292,718 0.50 29,570,764 0.28 Forfeited during the year 12,013,719 0.31 6,352,907 0.83 Exercised during the year 27,359,417 0.27 11,741,638 0.56 Outstanding at end of year 62,167,023 0.39 89,247,441 0.33 Exercisable at end of year 6,253,122 0.29 3,639,445 1.60 1 The charge to the income statement for the years ended 2 February 2013 and 28 January 2012 in respect of share-based payments includes the first years charge of the 2013 and 2012 Kingfisher Incentive Share Scheme KISS grants respectively, based on the bonus for the year.
Since grants under the KISS are made following the year end to which the first year of charge relates, it is not possible to give the number of options granted until after the year end.
2 The weighted average exercise price for options granted during the year represents a blend of nil price KISS, Performance Share Plan and Store Management Incentive Share Scheme options and discounted Sharesave options see below.
Information on the share schemes is given in note 13 of the Companys separate financial statements.
Options have been exercised on a regular basis throughout the year.
On that basis, the weighted average share price during the year, rather than at the date of exercise, is 2.81 2011 12: 2.55.
The options outstanding at the end of the year have exercise prices ranging from nil to 2.38 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.1 years 2011 12: 3.6 years.
The Group recognised a total expense of 9m in the year ended 2 February 2013 2011 12: 32m relating to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
Under IFRS 2, Share-based payment, the Group recognises a charge for share options granted after 7 November 2002.
Option numbers and other disclosures above are for those options granted after this date.
A full list of outstanding options is given in note 13 of the Companys separate financial statements.
com 96 ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30 Share-based payments continued The fair value of share options and deferred shares is determined by independent valuers using Black-Scholes and stochastic option pricing models.
Details of the CSOP element of the award are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
2 Expected life is disclosed based on the UK schemes.
For the KISS and PSP schemes in the UK, the expiry date is 7 years from the date of grant.
Expiry of overseas KISS schemes and CSOP is 6 months from the date of vesting.
Expiry of overseas PSP schemes is 1 year from the date of vesting.
3 Expected volatility was determined for each individual award, by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price plus reinvested dividends immediately prior to the grant of the award, over the same period as the vesting period of each award, adjusted by expectations of future volatility.
4 The fair values of UK and International Sharesave awards granted on or before 1 January 2009 have been restated to reflect the 17 January 2008 amendment to IFRS 2 on vesting conditions and cancellations.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Business review Governance Accounts 97 31 Cash generated by operations millions 2012 13 2011 12 Operating profit 695 807 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 20 32 Depreciation and amortisation 248 237 Impairment losses 8 7 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment, investment property and intangible assets 5 7 Share-based compensation charge 9 32 Increase in inventories 191 94 Increase in trade and other receivables 6 28 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 19 65 Movement in provisions 14 24 Movement in post employment benefits 51 20 Cash generated by operations 730 827 32 Net cash millions 2012 13 2011 12 Cash and cash equivalents 398 587 Bank overdrafts 102 Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 398 485 Bank loans 68 98 Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt 298 478 Financing derivatives 71 67 Finance leases 65 64 Net cash debt 38 88 millions 2012 13 2011 12 Net debt cash at beginning of year 88 14 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 106 118 Repayment of bank loans 31 10 Repayment of Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt 162 30 Payment on financing derivatives 5 Capital element of finance lease rental payments 12 16 Cash flow movement in net debt 99 57 Exchange differences and other non-cash movements 27 45 Net cash debt at end of year 38 88 33 Acquisitions In the prior year the Group acquired non-controlling interests in three of its B&Q China subsidiaries for a cash consideration of 8m.
In addition the Group acquired National Energy Services Limited in the UK for 2m.
com 98 ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34 Commitments Operating lease commitments The Group leases various retail stores, offices, warehouses and plant and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
Lease arrangements under which rental payments are contingent upon sales, other performance or usage are not significant for the Group.
Undiscounted total future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: millions 2012 13 2011 12 Less than one year 461 434 One to five years 1,589 1,555 More than five years 2,637 2,867 4,687 4,856 The total of future minimum operating sublease receipts expected to be received is 203m 2011 12: 240m.
Capital commitments Capital commitments contracted but not provided for by the Group amount to 36m 2011 12: 139m.
35 Contingent liabilities The Group has arranged for certain guarantees to be provided to third parties in the ordinary course of business.
Of these guarantees, only 1m 2011 12: 10m would crystallise due to possible future events not wholly within the Groups control.
The Group is subject to claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business and provision is made where liabilities are considered likely to arise on the basis of current information and legal advice.
36 Related party transactions During the year, the Company and its subsidiaries carried out a number of transactions with related parties in the normal course of business and on an arms length basis.
The names of the related parties, the nature of these transactions and their total value are shown below: 2012 13 2011 12 Income Receivable Income Receivable millions expense payable expense payable Transactions with Kota s Yapi Marketleri Ticaret A. S. in which the Group holds a 50% interest Provision of employee services 0.2 0.1 Commission and other income 0.8 0.4 0.9 1.0 Transactions with Hornbach Holding A. G. in which the Group holds a 21% interest Commission and other income 0.9 0.1 3.8 0.3 Other expenses 0.3 Transactions with Crealfi S. A. in which the Group holds a 49% interest Provision of employee services 0.1 0.1 Commission and other income 4.3 0.3 7.0 1.5 Transactions with Kingfisher Pension Scheme Provision of administrative services 1.4 0.1 1.1 Services are usually negotiated with related parties on a cost-plus basis.
Goods are sold or bought on the basis of the price lists in force with non-related parties.
The remuneration of key management personnel is given in note 8.
Other transactions with the Kingfisher Pension Scheme are detailed in note 27.
