62 62 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Corporate information profit and decrease to other comprehensive expense of 0.2 million is Ladbrokes plc the Company is a limited company incorporated and not material to the Group.
domiciled in the United Kingdom whose shares are publicly traded.
The The Group has adopted the amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of address of its registered office and principal place of business is Financial Statements, which require the Group to separate items of disclosed in the corporate information section of the Annual Report.
other comprehensive income into two distinct categories: items that The consolidated financial statements of the Company and its will not be reclassified subsequently to the income statement: and subsidiaries together, the Group for the year ended 31 December items that will be reclassified subsequently to the income statement 2013 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the when specific conditions are met.
Income tax on items of other directors on 24 February 2014. comprehensive income is required to be allocated on the same basis.
The principal activities of the Group are described in note 5.
The Group has adopted the amendment of IFRS 7.
The most significant change relates to offsetting financial assets and liabilities.
The 2 Basis of preparation amendments require disclosure about rights of set-off and related The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared arrangements and are required for all recognised financial instruments in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs that are set off in accordance with IAS 32.
The disclosures also apply to as adopted for use in the European Union.
recognised financial instruments that are subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement irrespective of whether they are set off in The consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling accordance with IAS 32.
The adoption of this standard did not have a, which is the Groups functional and presentational currency.
All significant impact on the results, financial position or disclosures of the values are in millions m rounded to one decimal place except where Group.
Several other amendments apply for the first time in 2013. otherwise indicated.
However, they do not impact the annual consolidated financial To assist in understanding its underlying performance, the Group has statements of the Group or the interim condensed consolidated defined the following items of income and expense as exceptional in financial statements of the Group.
nature: 4 Summary of significant accounting policies profits or losses on disposal or impairment of non-current assets or Basis of consolidation businesses: The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial unrealised gains and losses on derivative financial instruments: statements of the Group at 31 December each year.
The underlying financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same corporate transaction costs: and reporting year as the Company, using consistent accounting policies.
changes in the fair value of contingent consideration.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain Any other non-recurring items are considered individually for benefits from its activities.
classification as exceptional by virtue of their nature and size.
All intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses are The exceptional items have been included within the appropriate eliminated on consolidation.
classifications in the consolidated income statement.
Subsidiaries are consolidated, using the purchase method of 3 Changes in accounting policies accounting, from the date on which control is transferred to the Group The Group has combined cost of sales before depreciation and and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is amortisation and administrative expenses into operating expenses transferred from the Group.
before depreciation and amortisation within the consolidated income statement.
This is consistent with how costs are reported and On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a managed within the business.
The prior year comparative consolidated subsidiary are measured at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Any income statement has been restated to reflect this change.
excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the separately identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Where From 1 January 2013 the Group has applied, for the first time, certain necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of standards, interpretations and amendments.
These include IFRS 13 subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used in line with those Fair Value Measurement, IAS 19 Employee Benefits Revised 2011 and used by the Group.
amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial information requires the use of The Group has adopted IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
It establishes assumptions, estimates and judgements about future conditions.
Use a single source of guidance for fair value measurements.
The standard of available information and application of judgement are inherent in defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value the formation of estimates.
Actual results in the future may differ from including a requirement to incorporate own credit risk in fair value those reported.
In this regard, management believes that the measurement of liabilities, and requires disclosures about fair value accounting policies where judgement is necessarily applied are those measurements.
In general, the disclosure requirements in IFRS 13 are that relate to: the measurement and impairment of goodwill and more extensive than those required in the current standards.
Although indefinite life intangible assets: the measurement and accounting for the adoption of this standard did not have a significant impact on the business combinations: the measurement of pension and other postresults or financial position of the Group, the Group has included employment benefit obligations: the determination of the initial fair additional disclosures to reflect the requirements of the standard.
value of betting and gaming transactions: the recoverable amount of trade receivables: income tax and the valuation of financial guarantee The Group has adopted the revision of IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
most significant change relates to the net interest on the pension asset calculation being based on a single discount rate rather than the The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an expected asset return.
The impact on the Group of applying this revision ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the was a decrease to profit of 0.2 million and an increase to other period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that comprehensive income of 0.2 million.
The prior period income period, or in the period of the revision and future periods, if the revision statement and statement of comprehensive income for the period affects both current and future periods.
ended 31 December 2012 have not been restated, as the decrease to Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 63 63 4 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Financial guarantee contracts Further information about key assumptions concerning the future and The valuation of financial guarantee contracts and related indemnities other key sources of estimation uncertainty are set out below.
requires use of assumptions of the risks of default of the guaranteed entities and the credit profiles of the counterparties.
Further details are Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets given in note 24.
The Group has determined that betting shop licences have indefinite lives.
Investments in joint ventures A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an interest on a The Group determines whether goodwill and indefinite life intangible long-term basis and which is jointly controlled by the Group and one or assets are impaired at least on an annual basis.
This requires an more other venturers under a contractual agreement.
estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which the The Groups share of results of joint ventures is included in the Group goodwill and intangible assets are allocated.
Estimating a value in use amount requires management to make an estimate of the expected consolidated income statement using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in joint ventures are carried in the Group consolidated future cash flows from the cash generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the entity less any impairment in value.
Further details are given in notes 13 and 14. carrying value of investments in joint ventures includes acquired Business combinations goodwill.
The Group applies judgement in determining whether a transaction is a If the Groups share of losses in the joint venture equals or exceeds its business combination, which includes consideration as to whether the Group has acquired a business or a group of assets.
investment in the joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to do so or made payments on For business combinations, the Group estimates the fair value of the behalf of the joint venture.
consideration transferred, which includes assumptions about the Investments in associates future business performance of parts of the Group and an appropriate discount rate to determine the fair value of any contingent Associates are those businesses in which the Group has a long-term interest and is able to exercise significant influence over the financial consideration.
Judgement is also applied in determining whether any future payments should be classified as contingent consideration or as and operational policies but does not have control or joint control over remuneration for future services.
The Groups share of results of associates is included in the Group The Group then estimates the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the business combination, including any consolidated income statement using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in associates are carried in the Group consolidated separately identifiable intangible assets.
These estimates also require inputs and assumptions including future earnings, customer attrition balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the entity less any impairment in value.
The rates and discount rates.
The Group engages external experts to support the valuation process, where appropriate.
carrying value of investments in associates includes acquired goodwill.
The fair value of contingent consideration recognised in business Goodwill Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost, being the excess of combinations is reassessed at each reporting date, using updated inputs and assumptions based on the latest financial forecasts for the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the separately identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent the relevant business.
Judgement is applied as to whether changes should be applied at the acquisition date or as post-acquisition liabilities of a subsidiary or associate at the date of acquisition.
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, goodwill is not changes.
Further details of these judgements are given in note 33. amortised but reviewed annually for impairment and as such, is stated Pension and other post-employment benefit obligations at cost less any provision for impairment of value.
Any impairment is The cost of defined benefit pension plans and other post-employment recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement and is benefits is determined using actuarial valuations.
The actuarial not subsequently reversed.
On acquisition, any goodwill acquired is valuation involves making assumptions about discount rates, expected allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment rates of return on assets, future salary increases, mortality rates and testing.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash generating unit and part of future pension increases.
Due to the long-term nature of these plans, the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated such estimates are subject to significant uncertainty.
Further details with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the are given in note 29. operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Betting and gaming transactions Betting and gaming transactions are measured at the fair value of the Intangible assets consideration received or receivable from customers.
This is normally Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and those the nominal amount of the consideration but on certain occasions, the acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised separately fair value is estimated using valuation techniques, taking into account from goodwill if the fair value can be measured reliably on initial the credit profile of customers in determining the collectability of the recognition.
The costs relating to internally generated intangible assets, consideration.
In addition, where there are indicators that any trade principally software costs, are capitalised if the criteria for recognition receivable is impaired at the balance sheet date, management makes as assets are met.
Other expenditure is charged against profit in the an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
Further details are year in which the expenditure is incurred.
Following initial recognition, given in note 18. intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Income tax The Group is subject to tax in a number of jurisdictions.
The useful lives of these intangible assets are assessed to be either finite or indefinite.
Where amortisation is charged on assets with finite Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for lives, this expense is taken to the consolidated income statement income taxes due to uncertainty of the amount of income tax that may through the depreciation, amortisation and amounts written off nonbe payable, and in respect of determining the level of the future taxable current assets line item.
Useful lives are reviewed on an annual basis.
profits of the Group that support the recoverability of deferred tax assets.
Further details are given in note 10.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment annually, either individually, or at the cash generating unit level.
64 64 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the A summary of the policies applied to the Groups intangible assets is estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
as follows: Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the benefits and risks of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating Customer Domain Licences Software relationships Brand names lease payments, other than contingent rentals, are recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis Useful lives indefinite finite finite finite finite over the lease term.
Method used not 3-5 1-15.5 3-10 10 years Recoverable amount of non-current assets depreciated years years years straight line or revalued straight line straight line straight line At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired.
Where an indicator of Internally generated acquired acquired acquired acquired acquired or acquired and impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of the internally recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds generated its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written Impairment annually and useful lives where an where an where an down to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher testing recoverable where an reviewed at indicator of indicator of indicator of of an assets or cash generating units fair value less costs to sell and its amount testing indicator of each impairment impairment impairment impairment financial exists exists exists value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset exists year end does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
An intangible asset is derecognised upon disposal, with any gain or loss arising calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds Cash and cash equivalents and the carrying amount of the item included in the consolidated Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand and income statement in the year of disposal.
short-term deposits with an original maturity of less than three months, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Property, plant and equipment Land is stated at cost less any impairment in value.
Buildings, plant and Financial assets equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes party to the impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight line contracts that give rise to them.
method to allocate the cost of each asset to its residual value over its The Group classifies financial assets at inception as loans and useful economic life as follows: Buildings 50 years or estimated receivables, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss or useful life of the building, or lease, whichever is less, to estimated available-for-sale financial assets.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or Fixtures, fittings and equipment four to 10 years as considered determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
On appropriate to write down cost to estimated residual value.
initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at fair value net The carrying values of plant and equipment are reviewed for of transaction costs.
Subsequently, the fair values are measured at impairment annually as to whether there are events or changes in amortised cost, using the effective interest method, less any allowance circumstances indicating that the carrying values may not be for impairment.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss comprise derivative exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets or cash financial instruments.
Financial assets through profit or loss are generating units are written down to their recoverable amount.
measured initially at fair value with transaction costs taken directly to The recoverable amount of plant and equipment is the greater of fair the consolidated income statement.
Subsequently, the fair values are value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the remeasured, and gains and are recognised in the consolidated income estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using statement.
a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the Available for sale financial assets comprise equity investments that are time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset neither classified as held for trading nor designated at fair value that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the through profit or loss.
Available for sale financial assets are measured recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit to initially at fair value.
Subsequently, the fair values are remeasured, and which the asset belongs.
gains and losses are recognised in the consolidated statement of Impairment losses are recognised in the consolidated income comprehensive income.
statement in the depreciation and amounts written off non-current Trade receivables are generally accounted for at amortised cost.
The Group reviews indicators of impairment on an ongoing basis and An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon where such indicators exist, the Group makes an estimate of the disposal, with any gain or loss arising calculated as the difference assets recoverable amount.
between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the Financial liabilities item included in the consolidated income statement in the year of Financial liabilities comprise interest bearing loans and borrowings, disposal.
contingent consideration, ante-post bets, guarantees and derivative Leases financial instruments.
On initial recognition, financial liabilities are Leases that transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits measured at fair value plus transaction costs where they are not incidental to ownership of the leased item are capitalised at the categorised as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased item or, if lower, at Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include contingent the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments consideration, derivative financial instruments, ante-post bets and are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the guarantees.
lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are measured remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken directly to the against income.
Subsequently, the fair values are Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 65 65 4 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a remeasured and gains and losses from changes therein are foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date All interest bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair when the fair value was determined.
value net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
After initial recognition, fixed rate interest bearing loans and borrowings are The main functional currency of overseas subsidiaries is the Euro.
At the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of these overseas subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
subsidiaries are translated into Pounds Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and their income statements The Group has provided financial guarantees to third parties in respect are translated at the average exchange rates for the year.
The post-tax of lease obligations of certain of the Groups former subsidiaries within exchange differences arising on the retranslation, since the date of the disposed hotels division.
Financial guarantee contracts are transition to IFRSs, are taken directly to a separate component of classified as financial liabilities and are measured at fair value by equity.
On disposal of a foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount estimating the probability of the guarantees being called upon and the recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign entity is related cash outflows from the Group.
recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Income tax Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash flows Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary from the assets has expired or when the Group has transferred its differences at the balance sheet date, between the tax bases of assets contractual right to receive the cash flows from the financial assets or and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting has assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full without purposes.
material delay to a third party, and either: Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been differences: transferred: or except where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial substantially all the risks and rewards have neither been retained recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a nor transferred but control is not retained.
business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor the tax profit: and Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation is discharged, cancelled or expires.
associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be Derivative financial instruments controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as cross reverse in the foreseeable future.
currency swaps, foreign exchange swaps and interest rate swaps, to hedge its risks associated with interest rate and foreign currency Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary fluctuations.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially differences and carry forward of unused tax assets and unused tax and subsequently at fair value.
The gains or losses on remeasurement losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be are taken to the consolidated income statement.
available against which the deductible temporary differences and carry forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised: Derivative financial instruments are classified as assets where their fair value is positive, or as liabilities where their fair value is negative.
except where the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible Derivative assets and liabilities arising from different transactions are temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or only offset if the transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the right of offset exists and the parties intend to settle the cash flows on a time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor the net basis.
tax profit: and Provisions in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation investments in subsidiaries and associates, deferred tax assets are legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an only recognised to the extent that it is probable that the deductible outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount taxable profit will be available against which the temporary of the obligation.
Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that and are discounted to present value where the effect is material using a sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value deferred tax asset to be utilised.
of money and the risks specific to the liability.
The unwinding of the discount is recognised as a finance expense.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is Foreign currency translation settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or The presentation and functional currency of Ladbrokes plc and the substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
functional currencies of its UK subsidiaries are Pounds Sterling.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in sterling at the foreign currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary Interest or penalties payable and receivable in relation to income tax are recognised as an income tax expense or credit in the consolidated assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the foreign currency rate of exchange ruling at the income statement.
The impact of the change in the current year is described in note 10. balance sheet date.
Income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised All foreign currency translation differences are taken to the consolidated income statement.
Tax charges and credits attributable to in equity and not in the consolidated income statement.
exchange differences on those borrowings are dealt with in equity.
66 66 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Summary of significant accounting policies continued normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other salesRevenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of related taxes.
sales tax except: For licensed betting offices, on course betting, Core Telephone Betting, where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods and services is mobile betting, High Rollers, Digital businesses including sportsbook, casino, games, other number bets, revenue represents gains and not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as losses, being the amounts staked and fees received, less total payouts and the fair value of reward points issued from betting activity in the part of the expense item as applicable: and period.
Open betting positions are carried at fair value and gains and losses arising on these positions are recognised in revenue.
receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales tax included.
When a bet is placed and reward points are issued under the Odds On loyalty scheme, the fair value of the reward points is deferred and The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the recorded as a liability.
The deferred revenue is recognised when the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the reward points are used or when they expire.
Revenue from the online poker business reflects the net income rake Pensions and other post-employment benefits earned from poker games completed by the period end.
The Groups defined benefit pension plan, the Ladbrokes Pension Plan holds assets separately from the Group.
The pension cost relating to In the case of the greyhound stadia, revenue represents income arising this plan is assessed in accordance with the advice of independent from the operation of the greyhound stadia in the period, including qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in the consolidated statement Finance expense and income of comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Finance expense and income arising on interest bearing financial instruments carried at amortised cost are recognised in the Any past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the consolidated income statement using the effective interest rate benefits have already vested and otherwise is amortised on a straight method.
Finance expense includes the amortisation of fees that are an line basis over the average period until the benefits vest.
The retirement integral part of the effective finance cost of a financial instrument, benefit asset recognised in the balance sheet represents the fair value including issue costs, and the amortisation of any other differences of scheme assets less the value of the defined benefit obligations as between the amount initially recognised and the redemption price.
adjusted for unrecognised past service cost.
Net gains and losses in respect of mark-to-market adjustments on The Groups contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged financial instruments carried at fair value, foreign exchange to the consolidated income statement in the period to which the adjustments and net gains and losses on financial guarantees are contributions relate.
included in exceptional items in the consolidated income statement.
In accounting for the Groups defined benefit pension plan, it is Share-based payment transactions necessary for management to make a number of estimates and Certain employees including directors of the Group receive assumptions each year.
These include the discount rates, future remuneration in the form of equity settled share-based payment changes to salaries, employee turnover, inflation rates and life transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for expectancy.
In making these estimates and assumptions, management shares or rights over shares equity settled transactions.
considers advice provided by external advisers, such as actuaries.
Where actual experience differs to these estimates, actuarial gains and The cost of equity settled transactions is measured by reference to the losses are recognised directly in equity.
Refer to note 29 for details of fair value at the date on which they are granted.
The fair value is the values of assets and obligations and key assumptions used.
determined using a binomial model, further details of which are given in note 30.
In valuing equity settled transactions, no account is taken of Equity instruments any performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the the shares of Ladbrokes plc market conditions.
proceeds received net of direct issue costs.
The cost of equity settled transactions is recognised together with a Treasury shares corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the Own equity instruments that are reacquired treasury shares are performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss on relevant employees become fully entitled to the award vesting date.
the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups own equity The cumulative expense recognised for equity settled transactions at instruments.
each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which ESOP trusts the vesting period has expired and the number of awards that, in the Where the Group holds its own equity shares through ESOP trusts opinion of the directors of the Group at that date, based on the best these shares are shown as a reduction in equity.
Any consideration available estimate of the number of equity instruments, will ultimately paid or received for the purchase or sale of these shares is shown in vest.
the reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds and no gain or No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except loss is recognised within the consolidated income statement or the for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which statement of comprehensive income on the purchase, sale, issue or are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market cancellation of these shares.
condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are Dividends satisfied.
Final dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share year end are not recognised in the financial statements until they have dilution in the computation of earnings per share as shown in note 12. been approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The Group has an employee share incentive plan and an employee Revenue share trust for the granting of non-transferable options to executives Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or and senior employees.
receivable from customers for goods and services provided in the Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 67 67 4 Summary of significant accounting policies continued ended 31 December 2015.
IFRS 9 addresses the classification and Shares in the Group held by the employee share trust are treated as measurement of financial instruments.
The key requirements of IFRS 9 treasury shares and presented in the balance sheet as a deduction are that at initial recognition, all financial instruments are measured at from equity.
Refer to consolidated statement of changes in equity.
fair value with different requirements for subsequent measurement for debt and equity instruments.
The standard provides relief from the Future accounting developments requirement to restate comparative financial statements for the effect The following new standards, interpretations and amendments have of applying IFRS 9. been issued but were not effective for the financial year beginning 1 January 2013 and have not been early adopted: On 29 May 2013, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets Amendments to IAS 36.
On 12 May 2011, the IASB issued IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial These narrow-scope amendments to IAS 36 Impairment of Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Assets address the disclosure of information about the recoverable Interests in Other Entities, IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements and amount of impaired assets if that amount is based on fair value less IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures which are all costs of disposal.
The amendments are to be applied retrospectively for effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
IFRS 10 establishes a single control model that applies to all entities Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and including special purpose entities.
The changes introduced by IFRS 10 Measurement entitled Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of will require management to exercise significant judgement to Hedge Accounting Amendments to IAS 39 were issued in June 2013. determine which entities are controlled, and therefore, are required to The narrow-scope amendments will allow hedge accounting to be consolidated by a parent, compared with the requirements that continue in a situation where a derivative, which has been designated were in IAS 27. as a hedging instrument, is novated to effect clearing with a central counterparty as a result of laws or regulation, if specific conditions are IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures and removes the met in this context, a novation indicates that parties to a contract agree option to account for jointly-controlled entities using proportionate to replace their original counterparty with a new one.
Instead entities that meet the definition of a joint venture, amendments are effective for accounting periods beginning on or after based on rights to net assets only, must be accounted for using the 1 January 2014. equity method.
In May 2013, the IASB issued IFRIC Interpretation 21:Levies, an IFRS 12 includes all of the disclosures required by IFRS 10, IAS 27, IAS interpretation on the accounting for levies imposed by governments.
These disclosures relate to an entitys The guidance clarifies that an entity recognises a liability for a levy interests in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and structured when the activity that triggers the payment, as identified by the relevant entities.
A number of new disclosures are also required including how legislation, occurs.
For a levy that is triggered upon reaching a the entity determines that it controls another entity where judgement is minimum threshold, the interpretation clarifies that no liability should used.
be anticipated before the minimum threshold is reached.
IFRIC 21 is As a consequence of the IASB consolidations project, IAS 27 is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. renamed Separate Financial Statements and is limited to accounting The Group has decided not to early adopt the above standards and for subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities, and associates in separate amendments, and is currently assessing the impact on its financial financial statements.
IAS 28 has been renamed Investments in statements.
Associates and Joint Ventures, and describes the application of the equity method to investments in joint ventures in addition to associates.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRICs in issue but not yet effective that are expected to have a significant impact on the Group.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was issued in November 2009 for financial assets and reissued in October 2010 to include financial liabilities.
The Group is required to adopt this standard for the year 68 68 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5 Segment information Management has determined the Groups operating segments based on the reports reviewed by the Board of Directors to make strategic decisions.
The performance of the Groups continuing business is assessed and measured according to the nature of the services provided.
IFRS 8 requires segment information to be presented on the same basis as that used by the Board for assessing performance and allocating resources, and the Groups operating segments are aggregated into the five reportable segments detailed below: UK Retail: comprises betting activities in the shop estate in Great Britain.
European Retail: comprises all activities connected with the Ireland Northern and Republic of, Belgium and Spain shop estates.
Digital: comprises betting and gaming activities from online and mobile operations which includes Ladbrokes Israel, Ladbrokes Australia and Betdaq.
Core Telephone Betting: comprises activities relating to bets taken on the telephone, excluding High Rollers.
High Rollers: comprises activities relating to bets taken on the telephone from High Rollers.
The Board continues to assess the performance of operating segments based on a measure of net revenue, profit before tax and net finance expense.
This measurement basis excludes the effect of exceptional income and expenditure from the operating segments.
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arms-length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
Core UK European Telephone High Retail Retail Digital Betting Rollers Total 2013 m m m m m m Segment revenue 800.9 128.8 175.0 6.5 6.5 1,117.7 Segment profit loss before exceptional items 133.9 15.6 8.2 1.6 5.9 162.0 Exceptional items 23.2 1.9 26.8 48.1 Segment profit loss 110.7 17.5 18.6 1.6 5.9 113.9 Corporate costs 21.3 Profit before tax and net finance expense 92.6 Net finance expense 25.0 Profit before tax 67.6 Income tax expense 0.6 Profit for the year 67.0 Other disclosures: 1 Share of results from joint venture and associates 4.0 1.4 2.6 1 Depreciation and amortisation 35.6 7.3 21.0 0.5 64.4 1 Capital expenditure 53.8 8.9 39.0 101.7 1 Share of results from joint venture and associates, depreciation and amortisation and capital expenditure include amounts not allocated to reportable segments of 0.1 million loss, 0.4 million, and 1.7 million, respectively Core UK European Telephone High Retail Retail Digital Betting Rollers Total 2012 m m m m m m Segment revenue 739.5 126.2 178.1 9.5 31.1 1,084.4 Segment profit loss before exceptional items 180.7 20.2 31.8 1.5 30.0 261.2 Exceptional items 1.8 2.0 2.2 6.0 Segment profit loss 178.9 18.2 29.6 1.5 30.0 255.2 Corporate costs 25.1 Profit before tax and net finance expense 230.1 Net finance expense 29.4 Profit before tax 200.7 Income tax expense 10.4 Profit for the year 190.3 Other disclosures: 1 Share of results from joint venture and associates 3.4 0.9 2.5 1 Depreciation and amortisation 33.7 6.3 14.0 0.7 54.7 1 Capital expenditure 55.2 9.1 45.6 0.3 110.2 1 Share of results from joint venture and associates, depreciation and amortisation and capital expenditure include amounts not allocated to reportable segments of 0.1 million, 0.3 million, and 1.3 million, respectively.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 69 69 5 Segment information continued Geographical information Revenue by destination and non-current assets on a geographical basis for the Group, are as follows: 2013 2012 Non-current Non-current 1 1 Revenue assets Revenue assets m m m m United Kingdom 957.2 875.5 929.2 787.1 Rest of the world 160.5 149.2 155.2 121.5 Total 1,117.7 1,024.7 1,084.4 908.6 1 Non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets and retirement benefit assets.
6 Exceptional items 2013 2012 m m 1 Business restructuring and integration costs 18.0 2 Impairment loss 27.2 3 Loss on closure 5.4 3.8 4 Corporate transaction costs 2.9 5 Profit on sale and leaseback 6.4 6 Contract renewal fee 6.2 7 Fair value adjustment to contingent consideration 1.7 Spanish retrospective online gaming taxes 2.2 Net unrealised gains on derivatives 0.3 Total before tax 51.6 5.7 Exceptional tax credit 5.5 0.3 Exceptional items after taxation 46.1 5.4 1 Business restructuring costs of 9.6 million have been incurred as a result of the operational reorganisation of the Group following the Playtech deal.
These costs have been incurred as follows: 5.0 million in UK Retail, 4.0 million in Digital, 0.6 million in Corporate costs.
In addition, the Group has incurred 8.4 million of costs within the Digital segment integrating the businesses, including processes and technology, following the business combinations with Playtech, Betdaq and Gaming Investments Pty Ltd. 2 Impairment loss of 27.2 million comprises a 11.4 million impairment of Retail shop licences and a 15.8 million software asset impairment.
The 11.4 million licence impairment has arisen as a result of the annual licence impairment review and includes a 13.7 million charge in UK Retail offset by a 2.3 million reversal of previous impairments within European Retail Ireland.
The 15.8 million software impairment is primarily as a result of changes in the strategy for software development following the Playtech deal and includes 14.7 million within Digital and 1.1 million within UK Retail.
3 The 5.4 million loss on closure includes a 3.6 million loss on closure of UK Retail shops and a 0.4 million loss on closure of European Retail shops.
These include a loss on disposal of intangible assets of 0.4 million, a loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment of 0.2 million and cost accruals of 3.4 million.
In addition, the Group closed its venture in South Africa, leading to a loss on closure of 1.0 million.
The Group also closed its LB Apuestas website in Spain following a deal with Cirsa to operate the online operation as part of the Sportium joint venture, incurring closure costs of 0.4 million.
The South Africa and Spain closure costs are included in the Digital segment.
4 The Group incurred corporate transaction costs of 2.9 million in relation to business combinations with Playtech, Betdaq, Gaming Investments Pty Ltd and Chronicle Bet.
These costs have been incurred within Corporate costs.
5 The Group realised a profit of 6.4 million on the sale and leaseback of 23 shops within the UK Retail estate.
6 The Group agreed to renew its contract with Scientific Games for the supply of new machines to the entire UK Retail estate, replacing the existing machine supply agreement which was due to expire in 2015.
The Group incurred a charge of 6.2 million in respect of this early renewal.
This charge has been incurred within the UK Retail segment.
7 The fair value of the contingent consideration in respect of the business combinations with Playtech, Betdaq and Gaming Investments Pty Ltd in Australia has been remeasured at 31 December 2013.
This resulted in a credit to the income statement of 2.8 million.
In addition, the Group incurred costs of 1.1 million, representing consideration for Gaming Investments Pty Ltd payable to certain senior management of that business contingent on their continued employment.
These have been incurred within the Digital segment.
Refer to note 33 for more details.
70 70 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7 Profit before tax and net finance expense Profit before tax, net finance expense and exceptional items has been arrived at after charging: 2013 2012 m m Gross profits tax, Betting tax and Machine Games Duty 154.3 76.7 Salaries and payroll-related expenses note 9 276.3 272.9 Property expenses 137.4 125.2 Content and levy expenses 111.1 98.2 Marketing expenses 69.2 66.8 Software and geographical partners 24.8 21.2 Other operating expenses 138.1 134.9 Operating expenses before depreciation and amortisation 911.2 795.9 Fees payable to Ernst & Young LLP were as follows: 2013 2012 m m Audit and audit-related services: Audit of the Group financial statements 0.3 0.3 Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.3 0.3 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 0.7 0.7 Non-audit services: Tax advisory services 0.5 Corporate finance services 0.1 Other assurance services 0.1 0.1 0.6 Total fees 0.8 1.3 8 Finance expense and income 2013 2012 m m 1 Bank loans and overdrafts 3.6 2.7 1 Bonds at amortised cost 17.7 22.6 Fee expenses 3.7 4.6 Finance expense before exceptional items 25.0 29.9 Losses on derivatives not in a hedging relationship 0.1 Total finance expense 25.0 30.0 1 Interest receivable 0.2 Finance income before exceptional items 0.2 Gains on derivatives not in a hedging relationship 0.4 Total finance income 0.6 Net finance expense before exceptional items 25.0 29.7 Net finance expense after exceptional items 25.0 29.4 1 Calculated using the effective interest rate method.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 71 71 9 Staff costs The average weekly number of employees including executive directors was: 2013 2012 Number Number UK Retail 12,213 12,290 European Retail 1,441 1,456 Digital 747 546 Telephone Betting 274 244 Central services 88 87 14,763 14,623 The number of people employed by the Group at 31 December 2013 was 14,459 2012: 14,463.
2013 2012 m m Wages and salaries 249.2 241.5 Social security costs 20.9 19.4 Pension costs note 29 4.2 2.8 Share-based payments note 30 2.0 9.2 276.3 272.9 In addition to salary, employees may qualify for various benefit schemes operated by the Group.
Eligibility for benefits is normally determined primarily according to an employees length of service and level of responsibility.
The amounts of some benefits are proportionate to individual salary.
Benefits may include paid leave for holidays, maternity and illness, as well as insured benefits.
The latter can cover private healthcare for the employee and their immediate family, long-term disability, personal accident and death in service cover.
Company cars, including fuel benefits, are provided predominantly to meet job requirements but also to certain executives.
The principal benefit schemes are: i Pensions Ladbrokes Pension Scheme LPS Under the new auto-enrolment legislation, employees meeting the statutory eligibility requirements are automatically enrolled in the LPS, a defined contribution scheme.
The contributions paid by the Group and employees meet those statutorily required.
Subject to meeting certain eligibility and employment grade criteria, employees can choose for the Group to match their contributions up to specified limits.
For the majority of employees the maximum match is 6% of broadly base salary.
The maximum match is higher for some employees, depending upon grade.
a Ladbrokes Pension Plan LPP This was closed to new employees on 1 August 2007.
Members contribute on average six per cent of pensionable salary per annum.
Benefit generally accrues to provide a target pension of half for joiners before June 2002: two thirds of final pensionable salary for an employee attaining age 65 with at least 40 years membership.
A spouses pension is payable following death.
LPP Executive Section Members contribute on average seven per cent of pensionable salary per annum.
Benefit accrues to provide a target pension from all sources of two thirds of final pensionable salary for an executive attaining age 65 with at least 26.7 years membership for joiners before June 2002, employees attaining age 60 with at least 20 years service.
A spouses and childrens pensions are payable following death.
LPP incorporates an Earnings Cap on Pensionable Salary.
Executive directors and senior executives, for whom this applies, have a choice between: i membership of the Executive Section of the LPP plus a cash supplement of up to 22.5 per cent of base salary in excess of the Earnings Cap: or ii a cash supplement of up to 22.5 per cent of base salary in lieu of membership of the LPP.
ii Share-based payments Details of employee share schemes operated by the Group are shown in the Directors remuneration report on pages 40 to 53 that forms part of the Annual Report 2013.
Details of options granted in 2013 and outstanding at 31 December 2013 are shown in note 30.
Details of directors remuneration and the policies adopted in determining it can be found in the Directors remuneration report on pages 40 to 53.
72 72 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10 Income tax expense Analysis of charge for the year: 2013 2012 m m Current income tax: UK 16.1 29.5 overseas 2.4 2.7 1 adjustments in respect of previous years 15.9 27.0 Deferred tax: relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 3.7 4.2 tax rate reduction 6.5 3.8 1 adjustments in respect of previous years 0.8 4.8 Income tax expense reported in the income statement 0.6 10.4 Deferred tax charged credited directly to other comprehensive income 4.8 2.2 A reconciliation of income tax expense applicable to profit before tax at the UK statutory income tax rate to the income tax expense for the years ended 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 is as follows: 2013 2012 m m Profit before tax 67.6 200.7 Corporation tax charge thereon at 23.25% 2012: 24.5% 15.7 49.2 Adjusted for the effects of: Lower effective tax rates on overseas earnings 0.6 8.0 Recognition of tax losses 3.5 8.3 Non-deductible expenses 3.3 3.7 Non-deductible expenses included in exceptional items 6.4 1.2 Tax rate reduction 6.5 3.8 1, 2 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 15.1 22.2 Other 0.9 1.4 Income tax expense 0.6 10.4 Reported as: continuing operations in consolidated income statement before exceptional items 6.1 10.7 continuing operations in consolidated income statement tax on exceptional items note 6 5.5 0.3 Income tax expense 0.6 10.4 1 The tax charge for the year ended 31 December 2013 includes an adjustment in respect of prior periods which arises primarily from the utilisation of losses against profits of previous periods.
2 In the year ended 31 December 2012 the Group reached a settlement with HMRC on all outstanding items in respect of tax years through to 31 December 2007, resulting in an effective tax charge, excluding exceptional items, of 5.2%.
Included within adjustments in respect of prior periods is a tax credit of 21.7 million and associated interest credit of 8.1 million, in respect of the settlement.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 73 73 10 Income tax expense continued Deferred tax Deferred tax at 31 December relates to the following: Consolidated Consolidated income balance sheet statement 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Deferred tax liabilities Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes 0.4 0.4 Betting licences 56.2 66.2 10.0 6.4 Fair value adjustments on acquisitions 2.1 Retirement benefit asset 13.6 8.4 0.4 1.3 Deferred tax liabilities 72.3 75.0 Deferred tax assets Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes 2.7 2.7 2.7 Losses 13.6 17.5 3.9 7.5 Share-based payments 2.8 3.6 0.8 1.9 Fair value adjustments to revenue 1.9 Other temporary differences 0.6 0.8 0.2 0.1 Deferred tax assets 17.0 24.6 Deferred tax charge credit 2.0 5.2 Net deferred tax liability 55.3 50.4 The Group has further tax losses at 31 December 2013 of 78.6 million 2012: 106.9 million that are available indefinitely for offset against future taxable profits of the companies in which the losses arose.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these losses as there is insufficient certainty that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of temporary differences may be deducted.
There are no significant taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associated undertakings and joint ventures.
The standard rate of UK Corporation Tax was reduced from 24% to 23% from 1 April 2013.
This will be reduced to 21% from 1 April 2014 and, as announced by the Chancellor in the Budget on 20 March 2013, to 20% from 1 April 2015.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are calculated at the substantively enacted rate of 20%.
The reduction to 20%, effective 1 April 2015, was substantively enacted on 2 July 2013.
11 Dividends 2013 2012 Pence per share pence pence Interim dividend paid 4.30 4.30 1 Final dividend proposed 4.60 4.60 8.90 8.90 1 A final dividend of 4.60 pence 2012: 4.60 pence per share, amounting to 42.0 million 2012: 41.8 million in respect of the year ended 31 December 2013 was declared by the directors on 24 February 2014.
The total amount payable in respect of the final dividend is based on the expected number of shares in issue on 28 March 2014.
The 2013 interim dividend of 4.30 pence per share 39.4 million was paid on 31 October 2013.
74 74 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to shareholders of the Company of 67.0 million 2012: 190.3 million by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year of 917.1 million 2012: 908.3 million.
1 At 31 December 2013, there were 919.4 million 28 3 pence ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares 951.2 million including treasury shares.
1 At 31 December 2012, there were 908.7 million 28 pence ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares 940.4 million including treasury shares.
3 At 31 December 2013, 2.4 million 2012: 2.7 million shares were deemed anti-dilutive for the purpose of calculating adjusted earnings per share.
The calculation of adjusted earnings per share before exceptional items is included as it provides a better understanding of the underlying performance of the Group.
Exceptional items are defined in note 2 and disclosed in note 6.
2013 2012 Continuing operations and Group m m Profit attributable to shareholders 67.0 190.3 Exceptional items net of tax note 6 46.1 5.4 Adjusted profit attributable to shareholders 113.1 195.7 Weighted average number of shares millions 2013 2012 Shares for basic earnings per share 917.1 908.3 Potentially dilutive share options and contingently issuable shares 8.1 13.3 Shares for diluted earnings per share 925.2 921.6 Before exceptional items After exceptional items Earnings per share pence 2013 2012 2013 2012 Continuing operations and Group: Basic earnings per share 12.3 21.6 7.3 21.0 Diluted earnings per share 12.2 21.2 7.2 20.6 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 75 75 13 Goodwill and intangible assets Customer relationships, brand Goodwill Licences Software & domain names Total m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2012 48.4 530.6 96.9 40.5 716.4 Exchange adjustment 0.3 1.0 1.3 Additions 1.7 3.6 51.7 57.0 Disposals 2.2 0.3 2.5 At 31 December 2012 49.8 531.0 148.3 40.5 769.6 Exchange adjustment 0.6 1.0 0.4 Additions 3.5 46.1 49.6 Additions from business combinations 89.4 5.2 1.7 9.5 105.8 Disposals 0.5 0.5 At 31 December 2013 138.6 540.2 196.1 50.0 924.9 Amortisation At 1 January 2012 42.7 41.7 2.6 87.0 Exchange adjustment 0.3 0.3 Amortisation charge 13.7 2.6 16.3 At 31 December 2012 42.4 55.4 5.2 103.0 Exchange adjustment 0.3 0.2 0.1 Amortisation charge 20.1 3.8 23.9 Impairment loss 11.4 15.8 27.2 At 31 December 2013 54.1 91.1 9.0 154.2 Net book value At 31 December 2012 49.8 488.6 92.9 35.3 666.6 At 31 December 2013 138.6 486.1 105.0 41.0 770.7 Goodwill relates to the consideration exceeding the fair value of net assets of business combinations including the deferred tax liability arising on statutory licence acquisitions.
During the current year, goodwill has been recognised on the business combinations with Playtech 34.9 million, Betdaq 31.5 million and Gaming Investments Pty Ltd 23.0 million.
In the prior year, goodwill of 1.7 million was recognised on the acquisition of Stadium Technology Group LLC.
Licences comprises the cost of acquired betting shop licences.
The acquired betting shop licences are not amortised as they are considered to have an indefinite life for a combination of reasons: Ladbrokes is a leading operator in well-established markets: there is a proven, sustained demand for bookmaking services: existing law acts to restrict entry: and Ladbrokes has a very strong track record of renewing its betting permits and licences at minimal cost.
Software relates to the cost of software acquisition and the capitalised costs in respect of internally generated software together with software acquired as part of business combinations.
The customer relationships intangible assets relate to the Groups acquisition of its former partner in the Nordic region and the current year acquisitions of Betdaq and Gaming Investments Pty Ltd.
Brand and domain names intangible assets relate to the Groups acquisitions of Betdaq and Gaming Investments Pty Ltd.
Refer to note 6 and 14 for details on the impairment loss.
76 76 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14 Impairment testing of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are tested annually for impairment at each reporting date by comparing the carrying amounts of these assets with their recoverable amounts being the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Goodwill Goodwill is tested for impairment by allocating its carrying amount to groups of cash generating units CGUs expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
If the recoverable amount of a group of CGUs exceeds its carrying amount, the group and any goodwill allocated to that group would be regarded as not impaired.
The carrying amounts of goodwill by segment are as follows: 2013 2012 m m Goodwill UK Retail 35.4 35.4 European Retail 12.7 12.7 Digital 90.5 1.7 138.6 49.8 No impairments were identified in both years.
Licences Licences have been allocated to the individual UK and European Retail CGUs that are expected to benefit from the assets.
Each CGU represents the lowest level within the Group at which the licences are monitored for internal management purposes which in the majority of instances is an individual shop.
Where the cash flows of one or more shops are not entirely independent, these are grouped to form a CGU.
During the year, these groupings have been reassessed which has led to an 8.7 million reduction in the impairment charge at 31 December 2013 across the UK and European Retail shop estate.
The carrying value of licences at 31 December 2013 was 486.1 million 2012: 488.6 million allocated as 311.7 million to UK Retail 2012: 324.2 million and 174.4 million to European Retail 2012: 164.4 million.
Basis on which recoverable amount has been determined The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations.
These are based on budgets approved by management for the next three years extrapolated thereafter using a 2.5% growth rate 2012: 2.5%.
This rate does not exceed the average long-term growth rate for the relevant markets.
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations The key assumptions taken into account by management are the amounts staked, the gross win margin and the discount rate applied.
The estimated amounts staked and gross win margin are based upon historic experience, managements best estimate of future trends and performance taking account of industry sources.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to cash flow projections for CGUs in UK Retail is 12.4% 2012: 11.4%, in European Retail is between 11.3% and 12.4% 2012: between 10.3% and 11.4% and in Digital is 11.0% 2012: 11.0%.
The recoverable amounts of certain individual UK Retail CGUs were below their carrying amounts at 31 December 2013 and accordingly an impairment loss of 13.7 million has been recognised in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2013 2012: nil within the Depreciation, amortisation and amounts written off non-current assets line as an exceptional item.
In respect of European Retail shop licences there has been a reversal of 2.3 million of previously recorded impairment charges as the recoverable amounts of certain CGUs were above their carrying amounts at 31 December 2013 2012: nil.
The credit of 2.3 million has been recognised in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2013 within the Depreciation, amortisation and amounts written off non-current assets line as an exceptional item.
The recoverable amount of individual CGUs is sensitive to changes in cash flows or discount rate.
Change in the cash flow projections or the discount rate would trigger a further impairment loss.
For example, an increase of 0.5% in the pre-tax discount rate would have resulted in an additional impairment loss of approximately 2.5 million 2012: 1.2 million for UK Retail and 2.2 million 2012: 4.8 million for European Retail, or a reduction in projected cash flows of 5% would have resulted in an additional impairment loss of approximately 8.8 million 2012: 0.9 million for UK Retail and 10.1 million 2012: 3.4 million for European Retail.
For Digital, no reasonably possible change in key assumptions would result in an impairment.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 77 77 15 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, Land and fittings and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2012 125.4 374.7 500.1 Exchange adjustment 0.2 1.2 1.4 Additions 15.7 38.8 54.5 Disposals 1.3 3.4 4.7 At 31 December 2012 139.6 408.9 548.5 Exchange adjustment 1.4 1.4 Additions 7.4 46.4 53.8 Additions from business combinations 0.3 0.3 Disposals 5.5 3.3 8.8 At 31 December 2013 141.5 453.7 595.2 Depreciation At 1 January 2012 70.4 228.5 298.9 Exchange adjustment 0.1 0.6 0.7 Depreciation charge 10.4 28.3 38.7 Disposals 0.7 2.5 3.2 At 31 December 2012 80.0 253.7 333.7 Exchange adjustment 0.8 0.8 Depreciation charge 11.3 29.6 40.9 Disposals 2.0 2.7 4.7 At 31 December 2013 89.3 281.4 370.7 Net book value At 31 December 2012 59.6 155.2 214.8 At 31 December 2013 52.2 172.3 224.5 At 31 December 2013, the Group had not entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of any property, plant and equipment 2012: 0.2 million.
78 78 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16 Interest in joint venture Share of joint ventures net assets m Cost At 1 January 2012 4.3 Exchange adjustment 0.1 Additions 1.5 Share of loss after tax 0.9 At 31 December 2012 4.8 Additions 3.1 Share of loss after tax 1.4 At 31 December 2013 6.5 The joint venture is the Groups investment in Sportium Apuestas Deportivas SA in which it holds a 50% equity interest note 32.
Summarised financial information in respect of the Groups share of the joint ventures net assets is set out below: 2013 2012 m m Non-current assets 9.1 6.9 Current assets 3.1 1.9 Current liabilities 5.7 4.0 Share of joint ventures net assets 6.5 4.8 2013 2012 m m Groups share of joint ventures revenue for the year 11.6 9.2 Groups share of joint ventures loss for the year 1.4 0.9 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 79 79 17 Interest in associates and other investments Share of associates net Other assets investments Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2012 14.0 0.7 14.7 Share of profit after tax 3.5 3.5 Dividends received 2.3 2.3 At 31 December 2012 15.2 0.7 15.9 Share of profit after tax 3.9 3.9 Dividends received 2.3 2.3 At 31 December 2013 16.8 0.7 17.5 Associates Summarised financial information in respect of the Groups associates is set out below: 2013 2012 m m Total share of associates assets 35.8 38.7 Total share of associates liabilities 19.0 23.5 Share of associates net assets 16.8 15.2 2013 2012 m m Groups share of associates revenue for the year 57.8 65.0 Groups share of associates profit for the year 3.9 3.5 Further details of the Groups principal associates are listed in note 32.
The financial year end of Satellite Information Services Holdings Limited SIS, an associate of the Group, is 31 March.
The Group has included the results for SIS for the 12 months ended 31 December 2013.
Other investments Other investments of 0.7million consist of investments in ordinary shares, which therefore have no fixed maturity rate or coupon rate.
18 Trade and other receivables 2013 2012 m m Trade receivables 2.4 3.3 Other receivables 8.9 10.4 Prepayments and accrued income 41.7 60.0 53.0 73.7 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30-90 day terms.
Trade receivables are reviewed for impairment on an ongoing basis, taking account of the ageing of outstanding amounts and the credit profile of customers.
Impaired receivables, including all trade receivables that are a year old, are provided for in an allowance account.
Impaired receivables are derecognised when they are assessed as irrecoverable.
At 31 December 2013, trade receivables with an initial fair value of 2.3 million 2012: 2.7 million were provided for in full.
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows: 2013 2012 m m At 1 January 2.7 2.8 Utilised 0.4 0.1 At 31 December 2.3 2.7 At 31 December, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows: Past due but not impaired Neither past due 30 30-60 60-90 90 Total nor impaired days days days days m m m m m m 2013 2.4 0.1 1.7 0.4 0.1 0.1 2012 3.3 0.1 2.3 0.6 0.1 0.2 80 80 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19 Cash and short-term deposits 2013 2012 m m Cash and short-term deposits 24.0 19.4 Bank overdraft 0.6 0.1 Total cash and cash equivalents 23.4 19.3 Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statement of cash flows comprises cash at bank with a maturity of three months or less and overdrafts.
20 Trade and other payables 2013 2012 m m Trade payables 22.5 17.4 Other payables 64.1 35.3 Other taxation and social security 10.2 19.8 Accruals and deferred income 84.5 67.6 181.3 140.1 21 Provisions Vacant property Other 1 provision provisions Total m m m At 1 January 2012 12.7 1.0 13.7 Provided 2.9 2.9 Utilised 8.0 8.0 Released 2.0 2.0 At 31 December 2012 5.6 1.0 6.6 Provided 0.6 0.6 Utilised 2.5 0.3 2.8 Released 0.1 0.5 0.6 At 31 December 2013 3.6 0.2 3.8 1 The periods of vacant property commitments range from one to 12 years 2012: one to 12 years.
Of the total provisions at 31 December 2013, 1.3 million 2012: 2.5 million is current and 2.5 million 2012: 4.1 million is non-current.
22 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 2013 2012 m m Non-current Bank loans 199.0 183.8 7.625% bonds due 2017 223.0 222.4 422.0 406.2 The Group had a 0.5 million overdraft denominated in Australian dollars and a 0.1 million overdraft denominated in Euros at 31 December 2013 2012: nil.
All of the Groups remaining borrowings in 2013 and 2012 were denominated in pounds sterling.
The Group has undrawn committed borrowing facilities of 333.7 million at 31 December 2013 2012: 348.5 million.
In 2013 and 2012 the facilities, including all of the bank loans in the table above, are due to expire in more than two years but not more than five years in December 2016.
23 Financial risk management objectives and policies The Groups treasury function provides a centralised service for the provision of finance and the management and control of liquidity, foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
The function operates as a cost centre and manages the Groups treasury exposures to reduce risk in accordance with policies approved by the Board.
The Groups principal financial instruments comprise bank loans, overdrafts, loan notes, bonds, financial guarantee contracts, and cash and short-term deposits, together with certain derivative financial instruments.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Groups operations.
The Group has various other financial instruments such as trade receivables, trade payables and accruals that arise directly from its operations.
At 31 December 2013 and at 31 December 2012 the Group had no significant derivatives.
It is, and has been throughout the year under review, the Groups policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken other than betting and gaming transactions.
The Groups exposure to ante-post betting and gaming transactions is not significant.
The main financial risks for the Group are interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below.
The Group also monitors the market price risk arising from all financial instruments.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 81 81 23 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on interest bearing loans and borrowings and on cash and cash equivalents.
The Groups policy for the year ended 31 December 2013 was to maintain a minimum of 25% 2012: 25% of total borrowings at fixed interest rates to reduce its sensitivity to movements in variable short-term interest rates.
At 31 December 2013, 223.0 million or 52.8% 2012: 222.4 million or 54.8% of the Groups gross borrowings were at fixed rates.
Interest on financial instruments at floating rates is re-priced at intervals of less than six months.
Interest on financial instruments at fixed rates is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
Interest rate sensitivity The table below demonstrates the sensitivity to reasonably possible changes in interest rates on income and equity for the year when this movement is applied to the carrying value of financial assets and liabilities.
Profit before tax Equity 2013 2012 2013 2012 Effect on: m m m m 100 basis points increase 0.2 0.9 200 basis points increase 2.0 The sensitivity has been estimated by applying the basis points movement to the carrying value of the financial assets and liabilities, subject to interest at floating rates, held by the Group at the year end.
Due to current low interest rates, any further decline would not have a material impact on income and equity for the year.
As such, sensitivity to a decrease in interest rates has not been presented.
Foreign currency risk Other than the translation of foreign currency subsidiaries, there is no significant foreign currency exposure.
The total carrying value of the Groups foreign currency borrowings at 31 December 2013 was 0.6 million 2012: nil.
This consisted of a 0.5 million overdraft denominated in Australian dollars and a 0.1 million overdraft denominated in Euros.
The Group had no other foreign currency borrowings at 31 December 2013 2012: nil.
Credit risk The Group is not subject to significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread across a large number of counterparties and customers.
It is the Groups policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures.
In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis.
Any changes to credit terms are assessed and authorised by senior management on an individual basis.
The Groups High Rollers division consists of individuals who place sizeable stakes.
The Group manages this activity and the associated risk exposure by utilising senior management expertise to manage the levels of stakes placed.
Of the 2.4 million 2012: 3.3 million trade receivables balance, 2.2 million 2012: 2.8 million relates to the Groups Core Telephone Betting and High Rollers divisions.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents and a loan to a joint venture, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
Credit risk in respect of cash and cash equivalents is managed by restricting those transactions to banks that have a defined minimum credit rating and by setting an exposure ceiling per bank.
The Group also has exposure to credit risk arising from the financial guarantee contracts provided by the Group.
This risk is partly mitigated by the indemnity received from Hilton Hotels Corporation for any loss incurred in connection with these guarantees.
For further detail of these guarantees refer to note 24.
Liquidity risk The Groups objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of borrowings with a range of maturities.
The Groups policy on liquidity is to ensure that there are sufficient medium-term and long-term committed borrowing facilities to meet the medium-term funding requirements.
At 31 December 2013, there were undrawn committed borrowing facilities of 333.7 million 2012: 348.5 million.
Total committed facilities had an average maturity of 2.9 years 2012: 3.9 years.
The total gross contractual undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities, including interest payments, fall due as follows.
Cash flows in respect of financial guarantee contracts reflect the probability weighted cash flows.
The maximum exposure is described in note 24.
On demand or within 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total 2013 m m m m m Interest bearing loans and borrowings 22.2 21.6 448.2 492.0 Other financial liabilities 4.4 0.7 104.5 10.2 119.8 Trade and other payables 180.9 180.9 Total 207.5 22.3 552.7 10.2 792.7 82 82 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued On demand or within 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total 2012 m m m m m Interest bearing loans and borrowings 19.5 19.5 449.5 488.5 Other financial liabilities 4.2 0.3 2.4 21.3 28.2 Trade and other payables 139.7 139.7 Total 163.4 19.8 451.9 21.3 656.4 Capital risk management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a credit rating that enables the Group to raise funds at an economic interest rate and to maintain healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
The Group monitors capital using a net debt to EBITDA ratio.
The target range is less than 2.0 2012: less than 2.0 times net debt to EBITDA ratio.
The ratio at 31 December 2013 was 1.9 2.0 adjusted to remove profit from High Rollers and at 31 December 2012 was 1.3 1.5 adjusted to remove profit from High Rollers.
24 Financial instruments and fair value disclosures Other financial liabilities 2013 2012 m m Contingent consideration 53.6 Financial guarantee contracts 5.0 7.7 Deferred revenues associated with the fair value of reward points issued 1.5 1.3 Other financial liabilities 3.3 2.8 63.4 11.8 Of the total other financial liabilities at 31 December 2013, 1.5 million 2012: 1.3 million is current and 61.9 million 2012: 10.5 million is non-current.
The table below analyses the Groups financial instruments into their relevant categories: Assets liabilities Available Loans at at fair value for sale Loans and amortised through financial receivables cost profit or loss assets Total 31 December 2013 m m m m m Assets Non-current: Other financial assets 0.1 3.4 3.5 Current: Trade and other receivables 11.3 11.3 Cash and short-term deposits 24.0 24.0 Total 35.4 3.4 38.8 Liabilities Current: Bank overdraft 0.6 0.6 Trade and other payables 175.0 5.9 180.9 Other financial liabilities 1.5 1.5 Non-current: Interest bearing loans and borrowings 422.0 422.0 Other financial liabilities 3.3 58.6 61.9 Total 600.9 66.0 666.9 Net financial assets liabilities 35.4 600.9 66.0 3.4 628.1 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 83 83 24 Financial instruments and fair value disclosures continued Assets liabilities Loans at at fair value Loans and amortised through receivables cost profit or loss Total 31 December 2012 m m m m Assets Non-current: Other financial assets 3.6 3.6 Current: Trade and other receivables 13.2 13.2 Cash and short-term deposits 19.4 19.4 Total 36.2 36.2 Liabilities Current: Bank overdraft 0.1 0.1 Trade and other payables 134.5 5.2 139.7 Other financial liabilities 1.3 1.3 Non-current: Interest bearing loans and borrowings 406.2 406.2 Other financial liabilities 2.8 7.7 10.5 Total 543.6 14.2 557.8 Net financial assets liabilities 36.2 543.6 14.2 521.6 Fair value of financial instruments Assets and liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss and available for sale financial assets are carried at fair value.
The fair value of cash at bank and in hand approximates to book value due to its short-term maturity.
The fair value of the 225 million 7.625% bond at 31 December 2013 was 252.9 million 2012: 251.9 million and is classified as a level 1 fair value measurement for disclosure purposes, as the fair value is determined based on quoted prices in active markets for identical liabilities.
The amortised cost of interest bearing loans and borrowings, with the exception of the 225 million 7.625% bond, and the carrying value of all other assets and liabilities approximates to fair value.
Fair value hierarchy The following tables illustrate the Groups financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value after initial recognition at 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012: 2013 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Assets measured at fair value Other financial assets 3.4 3.4 Liabilities measured at fair value Trade and other payables 5.9 5.9 Other current financial liabilities 1.5 1.5 Other non-current financial liabilities 58.6 58.6 Total 66.0 66.0 Net liabilities measured at fair value 62.6 62.6 2012 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Liabilities measured at fair value Financial guarantee contracts 7.7 7.7 Trade and other payables 5.2 5.2 Other current financial liabilities 1.3 1.3 Total 14.2 14.2 No financial instruments are classified as level 1, for which fair value is based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
84 84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24 Financial instruments and fair value disclosures continued Included within other financial assets is the Groups investment in TBHG, a financial asset measured at initial fair value of 3.4 million on 28 February 2013 which was acquired in connection with the business combination with Betdaq.
This investment is classified as a level 3 financial instrument as its fair value is measured using techniques where the significant inputs are not based on observable market data.
There have been no changes in the fair value of the investment at 31 December 2013 refer to note 33.
Included in trade and other payables are 5.9 million of ante-post liabilities 2012: 5.2 million.
Other current financial liabilities are deferred revenues associated with the fair value of reward points issued: both are classified as level 3 financial instruments as their fair value is measured using techniques where the significant inputs are not based on observable market data.
Changes in the fair value of these instruments are recorded in the consolidated income statement.
Included within other non-current financial liabilities is contingent consideration associated with business combinations of 53.6 million 2012: nil, classified as level 3 financial instruments, as its fair value is measured using techniques where the significant inputs are not based on observable market data.
The fair values are remeasured at each reporting date and gains and losses from changes therein are recorded in the consolidated income statement within exceptional items note 6.
A full description of the valuation techniques, significant inputs and assumptions and the changes in the fair value estimates from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2013 are disclosed within note 33.
Also included within other non-current financial liabilities are financial guarantee contracts of 5.0 million 2012: 7.7 million, classified as level 3 financial instruments as their fair value is measured using techniques where the significant inputs are not based on observable market data.
Further information about financial guarantee contracts, including sensitivities, and a reconciliation of changes in fair value in the year, is included below.
The intangible assets recognised on the acquisitions of Playtech, Betdaq, Gaming Investments Pty Ltd and Chronicle Bet were measured at fair value on acquisition as level 3 financial instruments as their fair value is measured using techniques where the significant inputs are not based on observable market data.
However, these have not been included in the table above as they are not remeasured at fair value after initial recognition.
A description of the valuation techniques, significant inputs and assumptions is described in note 33.
Financial guarantee contracts The Group has given guarantees to third parties in respect of lease liabilities of former subsidiaries within the disposed hotels division.
The Group received an indemnity from Hilton Hotels Corporation HHC, at the time of the hotels disposal, in relation to any loss the Group may subsequently incur under these third party guarantees.
The guarantees expire between 2017 and 2042 and the lease liabilities comprise a combination of minimum contractual and turnover based elements.
The undiscounted maximum liability exposure in respect of the guarantees for all years up to 2042 is 707.6 million 2012: 827.9 million, with a maximum indemnity receivable of the same amount.
Included in the maximum liability exposure is 449.5 million 2012: 475.5 million in relation to the turnover based element of the hotel rentals and 258.1 million 2012: 352.4 million in relation to the minimum contractual based element.
The maximum liability represents the total of all guaranteed rentals under the non-cancellable agreements into which the Group has entered.
The net present value of the maximum exposure at 31 December 2013 is 303.9 million 2012: 351.6 million.
Included in the net present value of the maximum exposure is 175.5 million 2012: 182.1 million in relation to the turnover based element of the hotel rentals and 128.4 million 2012: 169.5 million in relation to the minimum contractual based element.
The Group monitors its exposure under these guarantees on a regular basis and seeks, where appropriate, to novate its obligations.
During the year the Group novated its obligations in respect of one of the hotels that has led to the significant reduction in the gross and discounted liabilities at 31 December 2013.
The financial guarantees liability has been valued using a probability based model to estimate the net present value of the liabilities payable in the event of a default by the hotels covered by the guarantees, and the probability of such a default and new tenants being identified.
At 31 December 2013 the Group has recognised a financial liability of 5.0 million 2012: 7.7 million in respect of these guarantees.
In addition to the passage of time, the liability has reduced in 2013 due to a number of factors.
The Group has been released from its obligations for one of its hotels, the liability on which was due to expire in 2033.
The key assumption in the probability model is the hotels default rate.
The default rate has been reduced as the remaining hotels under guarantee are considered to be in prime locations and furthermore have not suffered financially through the recent UK and European recession.
The 2.7million credit arising as a result of these factors has been included within the Groups corporate costs.
The table below provides a breakdown of the movement in the liability since 1 January 2013: Liability m At 1 January 2013 7.7 Reduction due to passage of time, change in default rate and year end discount rate 1.1 Reduction due to release from one hotel guarantee 1.6 At 31 December 2013 5.0 A 0.5 percentage point increase in the default rate would increase the financial liability by 1.3 million.
A 1.0 percentage point increase in the discount rate would reduce the financial liability by 0.3 million.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 85 85 25 Net debt The components of the Groups net debt are as follows: 2013 2012 Notes m m Current assets Cash and short-term deposits 19 24.0 19.4 Current liabilities Bank overdrafts 19 0.6 0.1 Non-current liabilities Interest bearing loans and borrowings 22 422.0 406.2 Net debt 398.6 386.9 26 Share capital Number of 28p ordinary shares m Issued and fully paid: At 1 January 2012 939,647,804 266.2 During the year 782,823 0.2 At 31 December 2012 940,430,627 266.4 1 During the year 10,734,594 3.1 At 31 December 2013 951,165,221 269.5 1 During the year, the following fully paid shares of 28 pence each were issued: 6,952,405 shares on the acquisition of Betdaq, 1,880,556 shares on allocation of shares under the Performance Share Plan, 1,087,463 shares under the Ladbrokes Growth Plan, 553,828 shares on exercise of options under the 1983 Savings Related Share Option Scheme, 144,684 shares on exercise of options under the International Share Option Scheme, 79,847 shares under the OWN Plan and 35,811 shares on exercise of options under the 1978 Share Option Scheme.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 1 May 2013, shareholders authorised the Company to purchase up to 91,759,548 of its ordinary shares in the market.
At 24 February 2014, no purchases have been made pursuant to such authority.
Number of 28p ordinary shares Shares issued at 31 December 2012 940,430,627 Treasury shares 31,760,568 Shares issued at 31 December 2012 excluding treasury shares 908,670,059 Shares issued at 31 December 2013 951,165,221 Treasury shares 31,760,568 Shares issued at 31 December 2013 excluding treasury shares 919,404,653 86 86 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27 Employee share ownership plans The Ladbrokes Share Ownership Trust LSOT is used in connection with the Companys Deferred Bonus Plan, the Ladbrokes Growth Plan, the Restricted Share Plan, the Performance Share Plan and the 2010 Share Award Plan together the Plans refer to note 30 for further details of the Plans and the various performance conditions.
The LSOT may also be used in connection with the Companys other share-based plans, including the 1978 Share Option Scheme and the International Share Option Scheme.
The trustee of the LSOT, Computershare Trustees CI Limited, subscribes for the Companys shares or purchases them in the open market, as required, on the basis of regular reviews of the anticipated commitments of the Group, with financing provided by the Company.
The Ladbrokes Share Incentive Plan LSIP is currently used in connection with the Companys OWN share plan the OWN plan and Freeshare share plan Freeshare refer to note 30 for further details.
The trustee of the LSIP, Computershare Trustees Limited, purchases the Companys shares in the open market, as required, using: i deductions made from the salaries of participants in the OWN plan: and ii dividends paid on the shares held by the LSIP.
Under the OWN plan, to match those shares acquired using participants salary deductions, one additional share is allotted by the Company to the LSIP for every two held per employee.
All expenses of the LSOT and LSIP are settled directly by the Company and charged in the financial statements as incurred.
The following table shows the number of shares held in trust that have not yet vested unconditionally and the associated reduction in shareholders funds.
LSOT LSIP Total Shares Cost of Shares Cost of Shares Cost of held shares held shares held shares Number m Number m Number m 1 At 1 January 2013 7,573,884 9.2 908,691 0.4 8,482,575 9.6 Shares purchased allotted 2,539,348 4.0 218,910 0.2 2,758,258 4.2 Vested in year 2,060,856 2.2 311,823 0.2 2,372,679 2.4 At 31 December 2013 8,052,376 11.0 815,778 0.4 8,868,154 11.4 Market value of shares in trusts 14.4 1.5 15.9 1 Includes an award of 4,035,784 shares allotted by the Company in 2010 and held jointly between the participant and Computershare Trustees CI Limited under the Ladbrokes Growth Plan.
28 Notes to the statement of cash flows Reconciliation of profit to net cash inflow from operating activities: 2013 2012 m m Profit before tax and net finance expense 92.6 230.1 Adjustments for: Non cash exceptional items 33.9 6.0 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 40.9 38.7 Amortisation of intangible assets 23.9 16.3 Share based payments charge 2.0 9.2 Decrease in other financial assets 1.4 1.6 Decrease in trade and other receivables 25.0 6.9 Decrease in other financial liabilities 1.0 0.1 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 8.9 5.3 Decrease in provisions 2.9 8.0 Contribution to retirement benefit scheme 9.5 10.1 Share of results from joint venture 1.4 0.9 Share of results from associates 3.9 3.5 Other items 0.5 Cash generated by operations 212.7 283.2 Income taxes paid 2.9 5.2 Finance expense paid 23.5 32.9 Net cash generated from operating activities 186.3 245.1 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 87 87 29 Retirement benefit schemes Defined contribution schemes The total cost charged to the consolidated income statement of 2.2 million 2012: 1.4 million represents contributions payable to these schemes by the Group at rates specified in the rules of the scheme.
Defined benefit plans The Groups only significant defined benefit retirement plan is the Ladbrokes Pension Plan, which is a final salary pension plan for UK employees.
This was closed to new employees on 1 August 2007.
At retirement each members pension is related to their pensionable service and final pensionable salary.
The weighted average duration of the expected benefit payments from the Plan is around 16 years.
The Plans assets are held separately from those of the Group.
The Plan is approved by HMRC for tax purposes, and is managed by an independent set of Trustees.
The Plan is subject to UK regulations, which require the Group and Trustees to agree a funding strategy and contribution schedule at least every three years.
Under the current contribution schedule in place, the Group pays contributions to the Plan of 22.2% of pensionable salary roll in relation to the ongoing accrual of benefits plus 0.75 million each year to cover the expenses of running the Plan and 5.3 million each year until 30 April 2019.
The next review of the funding strategy and contribution schedule is currently underway and will be completed during 2014.
There is a risk to the Group that adverse experience could lead to a requirement for the Group to make additional contributions to recover any deficit that arises.
The initial results of the formal actuarial valuation as at 30 June 2013 were updated to 31 December 2013 by an independent qualified actuary in accordance with IAS 19 Revised Employee Benefits.
The value of the defined benefit obligation and current service cost have been measured using the projected unit credit method, as required by IAS 19 Revised.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately through other comprehensive income.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: 2013 2012 m m Present value of funded obligations 268.8 264.3 Fair value of plan assets 321.9 300.8 Net asset 53.1 36.5 Disclosed in the balance sheet as: Retirement benefit asset 53.1 36.5 The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 2013 2012 m m Analysis of amounts charged to staff costs Current service cost excluding employee element 3.0 3.0 Administrative expenses 0.9 0.8 Net interest on net asset 1.9 2.4 Total expense recognised in the income statement in staff costs 2.0 1.4 The actual return on plan assets over the year was a gain of 22.8 million 2012: gain of 20.1 million.
The 2013 figures have been calculated under IAS 19 Revised.
There has been no impact on the disclosed defined benefit obligation, fair value of assets or net assets on moving from the previous version of IAS 19.
However, the net charge to the income statement has increased by 0.1 million relative to that under the previous version of IAS 19, and the actuarial loss recognised for 2013 has decreased correspondingly by 1.0 million.
The 2012 prior year figures have not been restated under IAS 19 Revised as any changes would not be material to the Group.
The amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are as follows: 2013 2012 m m Actual return on assets less interest on plan assets 9.3 6.8 Actuarial gains losses on defined benefit obligation due to Changes in financial assumptions 8.7 16.0 Experience adjustments on benefit obligation 8.5 0.4 Actuarial gains losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 9.1 9.6 88 88 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29 Retirement benefit schemes continued Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: 2013 2012 m m At 1 January 264.3 243.3 Current service cost excluding employee element 3.0 3.0 Employee contributions 0.9 1.0 Interest on obligation 11.6 11.7 Actuarial gains losses due to Changes in financial assumptions 8.7 16.0 Changes in demographic assumptions Experience adjustments on obligations 8.5 0.4 Benefits paid 11.2 11.1 At 31 December 268.8 264.3 Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2013 2012 m m At 1 January 300.8 280.7 Interest on plan assets 13.5 13.3 Administration expenses 0.9 Actual return less interest on plan assets 9.3 6.8 Contributions by the sponsoring companies 9.5 10.1 Employee contributions 0.9 1.0 Benefits paid 11.2 11.1 At 31 December 321.9 300.8 The Group expects to contribute 9.2 million to its defined benefit plan in 2014.
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: 2013 2012 % % Equities and Diversified Growth Funds 42 38 Government bonds 38 41 Corporate bonds 20 21 100 100 The Plan assets are held exclusively within instruments with quoted market prices in an active market with the exception of the holdings in an insurance policy.
At 31 December 2013 these represented circa 0.3% of the Plans total assets.
The Plan does not invest directly in property occupied by the Group or in financial securities issued by the Group.
Although, as the Plan holds pooled investment vehicles, there may at times be indirect employer related investment.
At 31 December 2013 these represented less than 0.1% of the Plans total assets.
The investment strategy is set by the Trustees of the Plan in consultation with the Group.
The current long-term strategy is to invest in a matching portfolio sufficient to meet the next 15 years of cash flows with the remaining assets invested in return seeking funds.
Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date expressed as weighted averages where appropriate : 2013% 2012% pa pa Discount rate 4.5 4.5 Price inflation CPI RPI 2.4 3.4 2.0 3.0 Future salary growth 3% pa in 2014 and 4.0% pa, plus 2015 and 4.15% pa promotional scale thereafter, plus a promotional salary scale Future pension increases LPI 5% CPI 2.4 2.0 LPI 3% RPI 2.6 2.4 LPI 2.5% CPI 2.0 1.7 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 89 89 29 Retirement benefit schemes continued The post-retirement mortality assumed for most members is based on the standard SAPS mortality table with the CMI 2009 projections, which takes into account future improvements, adjusted to reflect plan specific experience.
The assumption used implies that the expected lifetime of members aged 65 in 2013 is 86.9 years for males and 88.5 years for females.
For members with large pensions a longer lifetime is assumed 90.2 for males and 90.5 for females.
Changes to the assumptions will impact the amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet and the consolidated income statement in respect of the plan.
For the significant assumptions, the following sensitivity analysis provides an indication of the impact on the defined benefit obligation for the year ended 31 December 2013: 2013 2012 % % 0.5% pa decrease in the discount rate 8.3 8.2 0.5% pa increase in price inflation 5.0 4.2 One year increase in life expectancy 2.4 2.4 These sensitivities have been calculated to show the movement in the defined benefit obligation in isolation, and assuming no other changes in market conditions at the accounting date.
This is unlikely in practice, for example, a change in discount rate is unlikely to occur without any movement in the value of the assets held by the Plan.
30 Share-based payments The Company has the following share-based payment plans, all of which are settled by equity: the Restricted Share Plan: the Deferred Bonus Plan: the Performance Share Plan: the Ladbrokes Growth Plan: the 2010 Share Award Plan: the International Share Option Scheme: the 1978 Share Option Scheme: Sharesave: the OWN Plan: and Freeshare.
The plans and the various performance conditions are discussed in more detail below: i Restricted Share Plan Awards made under the Restricted Share Plan will vest after three years and are not subject to performance conditions.
ii Deferred Bonus Plan For certain senior executives, one third of the gross annual bonus is delivered in shares that vest after three years.
For other employees, one third of the gross annual bonus is delivered in shares that vest after two years.
iii Performance Share Plan An award under the Performance Share Plan consists of a conditional allocation of shares that will vest, subject to the achievement of performance conditions, at the end of the three year performance period.
The awards have two separate performance conditions: half of the award vests based on TSR and half of the award vests based on EPS growth.
iv Ladbrokes Growth Plan Awards are subject to share price growth performance conditions.
Any share price target must be attained throughout a period of 30 consecutive dealing days and performance is assessed over a five year period.
Up to one third of the award may vest at the end of year three if the performance targets have been achieved at that time.
A further third may vest at the end of year four if the targets have been met at that time.
The remainder of the award may vest at the end of year five, subject to the achievement of the performance targets.
v 2010 Share Award Plan An award under the 2010 Share Award Plan consists of a one-off compensatory share award to the Chief Executive in the form of a nil cost option.
The award is not subject to performance conditions and is exercisable after three years from grant.
vi International Share Option Scheme and the 1978 Share Option Scheme The share options granted are all market value options with a three year vesting period.
Vested options lapse if they have not been exercised within 10 years of the date of grant.
All options have an EPS growth based performance condition.
Options have not been granted since 2009 and there is no present intention to grant options in the future.
vii 1983 Savings Related Share Option Scheme Sharesave Under Sharesave, options are granted at a 20% discount to market value.
The scheme operates with a savings period of either three or five years, at the end of which the option may be exercised.
viii OWN Plan Under the OWN Plan, employees can contribute up to 75 per month to acquire shares.
For every two shares purchased, the Group provides a match of one additional share.
ix Freeshare Under Freeshare, an award of up to 250 in value was made to participating employees on reaching one years service.
Freeshares have not been awarded since 2010 and there is no present intention to make awards in the future.
For a more detailed description of each of the above plans, refer to the Directors remuneration report.
90 90 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30 Share-based payments continued The following table illustrates the number of share awards outstanding at the beginning of the year, the number of shares granted, lapsed and vested during the year together with the outstanding share balances as at the end of the year in respect of the Restricted Share Plan, Deferred Bonus Plan, Performance Share Plan, Ladbrokes Growth Plan and 2010 Share Award Plan.
Restricted Share Deferred Bonus Performance Share Ladbrokes Growth 2010 Share Award Plan Plan Plan Plan Plan Total Outstanding at 1 January 2013 615,849 1,654,026 11,513,154 15,440,663 1,177,103 30,400,795 Granted 962,165 775,495 3,813,336 5,550,996 Dividend equivalent awards 382,079 382,079 Lapsed 123,147 71,338 1,089,638 1,209,889 2,494,012 Vested Exercised 142,625 822,500 1,880,556 1,087,463 3,933,144 Outstanding at 31 December 2013 1,312,242 1,535,683 12,356,296 13,525,390 1,177,103 29,906,714 Share awards granted during the year in respect of the Performance Share Plan: 2013 2012 Number 3,813,336 5,155,354 Weighted average fair value 1.64 1.16 The fair value of share awards was measured by calculating the present value of the dividends receivable between the grant date and the vesting date and valuing the market related performance conditions through the use of a closed-form model, similar to a Monte Carlo simulation.
The total value of these shares is 7.0 million 2012: 7.8 million.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 2.15 2012: 1.67.
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was 36.0 pence 2012: 36.0 pence.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding at 31 December 2013 is between two and three years 2012: between one and three years.
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year was 1.10 3.60 2012: 1.10 3.60.
At 31 December 2013, there were 3,493,368 options outstanding with an exercise price between 1.10 and 2.00, 884,160 options outstanding with an exercise price between 2.01 and 3.00, and 1,252,403 options outstanding with an exercise price between 3.01 and 3.60.
At 31 December 2012, there were 3,864,439 options outstanding with an exercise price between 1.10 and 2.00, 1,023,361 options outstanding with an exercise price between 2.01 and 3.00, and 1,522,994 options outstanding with an exercise price between 3.01 and 3.60.
The inputs into the binomial model are as follows: 2013 2012 Weighted average share price 2.04 1.64 Weighted average exercise price 1.63 1.31 Expected volatility % 27.0 30.0 Expected life years 3.68 3.94 Risk free rate % 0.40 0.60 Expected dividends % 4.6 4.6 Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the previous three years.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The Group recognised total expenses before tax of 2.0 million 2012: 9.2 million relating to equity settled share-based payment transactions.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 91 91 31 Commitments and contingencies Operating lease commitments Group as lessee The Group has a number of lease agreements that, pursuant to their economic substance, qualify as non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
These primarily relate to rents payable on land and buildings.
The terms of the leases vary significantly but can broadly be summarised as follows: Lease terms Shop leases are typically agreed on five year exit cycles either expiry or break, with a maximum term length of 15 years.
Some leases are shorter in duration or with earlier exits, to reflect our assessment of risk.
Determination of rent payments Rent payments are based on the amount specified in the agreement.
Terms of renewal The agreements are not terminated automatically after expiry of the lease term and in the majority of cases, lease extension options have been agreed upon and in many other cases, there will be an opportunity to negotiate lease extensions with the lessor.
Restrictions There are no restrictions imposed upon the Group, concerning dividends, additional debt or further leasing under any of the existing lease arrangements.
Subleases The Group does sublease areas of leased properties and receives sublease payments from third parties.
Lease payments recognised as an expense for the year: 2013 2012 m m Minimum lease payments 67.8 65.3 Analysis of minimum lease payments by division: 2013 2012 m m UK Retail 57.1 54.0 European Retail 10.1 10.8 Digital 0.6 0.5 Total 67.8 65.3 Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases at 31 December are as follows: 2013 2012 m m Within one year 62.3 59.3 After one year but not more than five years 167.8 161.5 After five years 94.3 95.3 Total 324.4 316.1 Operating lease commitments Group as lessor The Group has entered into sublease agreements for unutilised space in the UK shop estate.
These non-cancellable leases have remaining lease terms of between one and nine years.
Lease receipts recognised as income for the period: 2013 2012 m m Minimum lease receipts 2.1 3.4 Future minimum annual rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases at 31 December are as follows: 2013 2012 m m Within one year 0.5 0.6 After one year but not more than five years 0.9 1.1 After five years 0.6 0.5 2.0 2.2 Contingent liabilities Guarantees have been given in the ordinary course of business in respect of loans and derivative contracts granted to subsidiaries amounting to 424.0 million 2012: 408.8 million.
There have been no loan guarantees given by subsidiaries in the normal course of business to other subsidiary companies 2012: nil.
Bank guarantees have been issued on behalf of subsidiaries and the joint venture with a value of 13.9 million 2012: 13.7 million.
92 92 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32 Related party disclosures The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Ladbrokes plc and its subsidiaries.
The principal subsidiaries, all of which are wholly owned by the Group, are listed in the following table: % equity interest Country of incorporation 2013 2012 Betting and Gaming Ladbrokes Betting & Gaming Limited United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 Ladbroke Ireland Limited Ireland 100.0 100.0 Ladbrokes Leisure Ireland Limited Ireland 100.0 100.0 Ladbrokes International plc Gibraltar 100.0 100.0 Ladbrokes Sportsbook Limited Partnership Gibraltar 100.0 100.0 1 Tierc Ladbroke SA Belgium 100.0 100.0 1 Ladbrokes Israel Limited Israel 100.0 Central services 1 Ladbrokes Group Finance plc United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 1 Directly owned by Ladbrokes plc.
In September 2012, the UK Governments Department for Business, Innovation and Skills announced a change to UK legislation with respect to the requirement for a UK company to be subject to annual audit.
An additional audit exemption has been introduced, such that for a subsidiary of a parent established in a European Economic Area state, that subsidiary can be exempt from annual audit if certain conditions are met.
The principal conditions are the requirement for the subsidiarys shareholders to agree to the exemption and a guarantee to be issued to the subsidiary by the parent undertaking, guaranteeing all of the subsidiarys outstanding liabilities at the year end, until they are satisfied in full.
The Group will be exempting the following companies from an audit in 2013 under section 479A of the Companies Act 2006, all of which are fully consolidated in these financial statements: Birchgree Limited Ladbroke Course Limited Ladbroke Dormant Holding Company Limited Ladbroke Entertainments Limited Ladbrokes Group Holdings Limited Ladbrokes Investments Holdings Limited Ladbroke Racing Reading Limited Ladbroke Racing South East Limited Ladbroke Racing Yorkshire Limited Maple Court Investments Limited Westbury Racing Limited The following table provides details of the Groups joint venture: % equity interest Country of incorporation 2013 2012 Sportium Apuestas Deportivas SA Spain 50.0 50.0 The following table provides details of the Groups associates: % equity interest Country of incorporation 2013 2012 Satellite Information Services Holdings Limited United Kingdom 23.4 23.4 Asia Gaming Technologies Limited Hong Kong 49.0 49.0 A full list of subsidiary and other related undertakings will be annexed to the next annual return of Ladbrokes plc to be filed with the Registrar of Companies.
Other than its associates and joint venture, significant related parties of the Group are the executive directors, non-executive directors and members of the Executive Committee of the Group.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its associates and joint venture and other related parties are disclosed below.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 93 93 32 Related party disclosures continued Trading transactions During the year, Group companies entered into the following transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group: 2013 2012 m m Equity investment 1 Joint venture 3.1 1.5 Loans Movement in loan balance with joint venture partner 1.5 1.5 Movement in loan balance with joint venture 0.1 0.1 Dividends received 2 Associates 2.3 2.3 Sundry expenditure 3 Associates 44.3 42.0 1 Equity investment in Sportium Apuestas Deportivas SA.
2 Dividend received from Satellite Information Services Holdings Limited.
3 Payments in the normal course of business made to Satellite Information Services Holdings Limited.
Details of related party outstanding balances 2013 2012 m m Loan balances outstanding Joint venture partner 1.6 3.1 Joint venture 0.5 0.4 Other receivables outstanding Associates 1.8 5.0 Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties Sales to, and purchases from, related parties are made at normal market prices and in the ordinary course of business.
Outstanding balances at 31 December 2013 are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash.
For the year ended 31 December 2013, the Group has not raised any provision 2012: nil for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by related parties as the payment history has been good.
This assessment is undertaken each financial year through examining the financial position of the related party and the market in which the related party operates.
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group The remuneration of key management personnel is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Key management personnel comprise executive directors, non-executive directors and members of the Executive Committee.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors, which totalled 7.4 million 2012: 5.0 million, is provided in the audited part of the Directors remuneration report on pages 40 to 53.
2013 2012 m m Short-term employee benefits 4.6 4.5 Retirement benefits 0.4 0.5 Termination benefits 0.3 0.5 Share-based payments 3.2 4.5 Total compensation paid to key management personnel 8.5 10.0 Directors interests in the employee share incentive plan and employee share trust are disclosed within the Directors remuneration report.
33 Business combinations Playtech On 10 March 2013, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of The Nations Traffic Limited TNT.
On the same day, the Group signed a five year agreement with PT Turnkey Services Limited Playtech for the provision of marketing, operational and CRM services marketing services agreement to the Digital division of the Group, which also included a provision for the acquisition of an experienced and skilled digital marketing team with a track record of success with online gaming companies in order to accelerate the growth of Ladbrokes online and mobile revenues.
On 1 May 2013, TNT was renamed Ladbrokes Israel Limited and by this date 40 experienced marketing personnel, the majority from Playtech, had joined Ladbrokes Israel Limited under the agreed terms of the acquisition.
In addition to the business combination described above, the marketing services agreement also provides the use of Playtech products, CRM tools and multiple brand approach, designed to drive customer lifetime values which will ultimately accelerate Ladbrokes ability to grow online and mobile revenues.
The consideration for these other services is excluded from the business combination and will be expensed as incurred.
The costs associated with these arrangements are on an arms length basis.
94 94 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33 Business combinations continued The fair value of the total consideration for the business combination at the date of the transaction was 35.3 million, including cash of 1.3 million and contingent consideration based on the growth of Ladbrokes Digital EBITDA between 2012 and 2017.
The estimated fair value of this contingent consideration at 10 March 2013 was 34.0 million.
This contingent consideration is payable in April 2018 and April 2019, with advance payments due before these dates should performance exceed certain targets.
The fair value of the contingent consideration has been estimated using a discounted cash flow analysis at the acquisition date.
The key assumptions in estimating the fair value are a range of EBITDA projections of the Digital business for 2017, which are based on the projections in place at the time of the acquisition with an estimated uplift for the benefits of the transaction, the predicted Ladbrokes plc EBITDA multiple in 2017 8.25x : and the discount rate applied a range of 12.9% to 16.1%, depending on the year.
All of these assumptions have been applied on a probability-weighted basis.
The contingent consideration is sensitive to changes in these assumptions.
For example, an increase of 10% in EBITDA projections would result in an increase in contingent consideration of 11.0 million and a decrease of 2% in the discount rate would result in an increase in contingent consideration of 3.0 million.
An increase of 1x in the EBITDA multiple would increase the contingent consideration by 3.4 million.
The Group has performed an estimate of the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as part of the business combination, as follows: m Net assets acquired: Payables 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents 0.5 Identifiable net assets 0.4 Goodwill 34.9 35.3 Satisfied by: Cash consideration 1.3 Contingent consideration 34.0 Total consideration 35.3 Cash consideration 1.3 Cash and cash equivalent balances acquired 0.5 Net cash flow on acquisition 0.8 The goodwill of 34.9 million arises from the acquisition of a highly skilled and experienced marketing team which has a proven track record of success in digital marketing, business intelligence and CRM systems, to grow the lifetime values of online customers.
None of this goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Ladbrokes Israel Limited has been consolidated in the Ladbrokes plc consolidated financial statements from 1 May 2013.
Prior to its acquisition and the transfer of Playtech employees into the company, the company did not trade and therefore had no revenue or profits.
Acquisition-related costs of 1.2 million have been charged to exceptional items in the consolidated income statement for the period ended 31 December 2013.
The Group remeasures the contingent consideration at fair value at each balance sheet date.
The estimated fair value of the contingent consideration at 31 December 2013 is 28.9 million, which is classified at Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
The 5.1 million reduction in the fair value since the acquisition date has been recorded in the income statement within exceptional items.
Betdaq On 28 February 2013, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Global Betting Exchange Alderney Limited GBEA, a company registered in Alderney which operates the Betdaq betting exchange business.
This acquisition was for total consideration of 42.8 million 36.8 million, comprising cash consideration of 15.0 million 12.9 million, the issue of Ladbrokes plc shares with a fair value of 18.6 million 16.0 million and contingent consideration with a fair value of 9.2 million 7.9 million at the acquisition date.
The fair value of the consideration given as Ladbrokes plc shares is 1 based on the number of shares issued 6,952,405 ordinary shares of 28 3 pence each and the market value of the shares on the acquisition date, 28 February 2013.
The contingent consideration is linked to the performance of the business over a four year period and is capped at 535.0 million.
The key assumptions in estimating the fair value are the EBITDA projections of the Betdaq business for 2016, the predicted Ladbrokes plc EBITDA multiple in 2016 8x and the discount rate applied 15%.
For example, an increase of 10% in EBITDA projections would result in an increase in contingent consideration of 1.7 million and a decrease of 2% in the discount rate would result in an increase in contingent consideration of 0.5 million.
A decrease in the EBITDA multiple of 2x would result in a decrease in contingent consideration of 2.0 million.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 95 95 33 Business combinations continued The Group has performed an estimate of the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as part of the business combination, as follows: m Net assets acquired: Intangible asset brand name 4.9 Intangible asset customer relationships 2.2 Trade and other receivables 0.9 Trade and other payables 1.9 Cash and cash equivalents 0.1 Deferred tax liabilities on fair value adjustments 0.9 Identifiable net assets 5.3 Goodwill 31.5 36.8 Satisfied by: Cash consideration 12.9 Shares 16.0 Contingent consideration 7.9 Total consideration 36.8 Cash consideration 12.9 Cash and cash equivalent balances acquired 0.1 Net cash flow on acquisition 12.8 The fair value of the brand name has been estimated based on the present value of the after-tax royalty savings attributable to owning the brand over an estimated useful life of 10 years.
The key assumption in estimating the fair value is a royalty rate of 6%.
The customer relationships were valued using the income approach method based on a three year average life for the customer base.
The key assumptions in estimating the fair value are future revenue and customer churn.
Any reasonable change in these assumptions would not result in a material change to the fair value.
The goodwill of 31.5 million, which includes 0.9 million arising as a result of deferred tax on fair value adjustments, arises from the acquisition of the skilled senior management and employees of GBEA, who have significant know-how in the betting exchange sector, as well as the potential to achieve synergies by exposing existing customers of the Group to Betdaq and the potential future access to the Betdaq exchange technology.
GBEA has been consolidated in the Ladbrokes plc consolidated financial statements from 28 February 2013.
Since the date of acquisition, GBEA has contributed 9.7 million of revenue and a net loss of 0.4 million.
In connection with the acquisition described above, on 28 February 2013 the Group also acquired 10% of the issued share capital of TBH Guernsey Limited TBHG, a company registered in Guernsey, for cash consideration of 4.0 million 3.4 million.
This company owns the technology behind the Betdaq betting exchange business, and licences this technology to GBEA.
The transaction also gives the Group a call option to acquire the remaining shares after four years and a put option to sell its 10% stake and to recover the purchase consideration of 4.0 million in full.
The fair value of these options is not considered material.
These options are currently not exercisable.
The Group has accounted for its investment in TBHG as an available for sale financial asset, initially recognised at fair value of 4.0 million 3.4 million.
There have been no changes in the fair value of the investment at 31 December 2013.
Acquisition-related costs of 1.3 million have been charged to exceptional items in the consolidated income statement for the period ended 31 December 2013.
The estimated fair value of the contingent consideration at 31 December 2013 is 9.5 million, which is classified at Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
The 1.6 million increase in the fair value since the acquisition date has been recorded in the income statement within exceptional items.
Gaming Investments Pty Ltd On 6 September 2013, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Gaming Investments Pty Ltd GIPL, a fast growing online sports betting business in Australia, under its newly formed Australian arm 'Ladbrokes Australia'.
au Pty Ltd, operator of the online bookmaker Bookmaker.
au and Panda Gaming Pty Ltd, operator of an extensive racing and sports focused affiliate network in Australia.
The fair value of the total consideration for the business combination at the date of the transaction was 28.4 million, including cash of A$23.9 million 13.9 million and contingent consideration based on the EBITDA for Ladbrokes Australia for the year ending 30 June 2016, capped at A$125.0 million 72.7 million.
The estimated fair value of this contingent consideration at 6 September was $24.9 million 14.5 million.
This contingent consideration is payable in 2016.
A further earn out payment with an estimated fair value of A$17.1 million 10.0 million is linked to the continued service of certain key individuals and has therefore been excluded from the business combination accounting.
This additional earn out payment will be recorded within exceptional operating expenses in the income statement over the earn out period 6 September 2013 to 30 June 2016.
96 96 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33 Business combinations continued The key assumptions in estimating the fair value are the EBITDA projections of the Ladbrokes Australia business for 2016, the predicted Ladbrokes plc EBITDA multiple in 2016 8.6x and the discount rate applied of 17.5%.
For example, an increase of 10% in EBITDA projections would result in an increase in contingent consideration of A$2.5 million 1.5 million and a decrease of 2% in the discount rate would result in an increase in contingent consideration of A$1.2 million 0.7 million.
An increase of 1x in the EBITDA multiple would increase the contingent consideration by A$4.1 million 2.4 million.
The Group has performed an estimate of the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as part of the business combination, as follows: m Net assets acquired: Intangible asset brand name 0.6 Intangible asset customer relationships 0.5 Intangible asset domain names 1.3 Intangible asset software 1.7 Property, plant and equipment 0.3 Trade and other receivables 1.3 Trade and other payables 1.8 Cash and cash equivalents 2.7 Deferred tax liabilities on fair value adjustments 1.2 Identifiable net assets 5.4 Goodwill 23.0 28.4 Satisfied by: Cash consideration 13.9 Contingent consideration 14.5 Total consideration 28.4 Cash consideration 13.9 Cash and cash equivalent balances acquired 2.7 Net cash flow on acquisition 11.2 The fair value of the brand name has been estimated based on the present value of the after-tax royalty savings attributable to owning the brand over an estimated useful life of three years.
The key assumption in estimating the fair value is a royalty rate of 1%.
The customer relationships and domain names were valued using the income approach method based on a one year average life for the customer base and an average life of 10 years for domain names.
The fair value of software has been estimated based on the depreciated cost to replace approach and is expected to have a useful life of five years.
The goodwill of 23.0 million, which includes 1.2 million arising as a result of deferred tax on fair value adjustments, arises from the acquisition of the skilled senior management and employees of GIPL, who have significant experience and know-how of the bookmaking business in Australia.
GIPL has been consolidated in the Ladbrokes plc consolidated financial statements from 6 September 2013.
Since the date of acquisition, GIPL has contributed 4.0 million of revenue and 2.9 million net loss.
Had GIPL been included for the period from 1 January 2013, revenue for the full year ended 31 December would have been 11.8 million higher and a loss for the Group would have been 5.9 million higher than disclosed in the income statement.
Acquisition-related costs of 0.3 million have been charged to exceptional items in the consolidated income statement for the period ended 31 December 2013.
The estimated fair value of the contingent consideration at 31 December 2013 is 15.2 million, which is classified at Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
The 0.7 million increase in the fair value since the acquisition date has been recorded in the income statement within exceptional items.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 97 97 33 Business combinations continued Chronicle Bet On 28 June 2013, the Group acquired the business and assets of Chronicle Bookmakers Limited Chronicle Bet, an on course bookmaker based in Ireland for a cash consideration of 6.0 million 5.2 million.
The Group has performed an estimate of the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as part of the business combination, as follows: m Net assets acquired: Intangible asset licences 5.2 Identifiable net assets 5.2 Satisfied by: Cash consideration 5.2 Total consideration 5.2 Net cash flow on acquisition 5.2 The licences were valued using the market approach based on market price of comparable assets.
Chronicle Bet has been consolidated in the Ladbrokes plc consolidated financial statements from 28 June 2013.
Since the date of acquisition, Chronicle Bet has contributed 3.3 million of revenue and a net loss of 0.2 million.
Acquisition-related costs of 0.1 million have been charged to exceptional items in the consolidated income statement for the period ended 31 December 2013.
