116 116 Glossary ABB Operating profit Association of British Bookmakers.
Profit before net finance expense, tax and exceptional items.
Adjusted Cost per Acquisition Operating margin Total of all online and offline recruitment marketing spend including Operating profit expressed as a percentage of net revenue.
promotions and bonuses netted from revenue, all affiliate expenses OTC relating to deals where affiliates are paid a one-off fee for each sign-up and Over the Counter.
all bonus costs except those relating to sign-ups from revenue share affiliates divided by the aggregate number of real money sign-ups from Real Money Sign-up non-affiliate sources and the number of real money sign-ups through A new player who has registered and deposited funds into an account with affiliates that are paid a one-off fee.
To address the issues posed by shared wallets, customers are categorised between lines of business according to where they first Average Monthly Active Player Days register on the gaming site.
The sum of, for all Unique Active Players in the period, the number of days they have played during the period.
Responsible Gambling Trust A charity that funds treatment, education and research related to problem Bet in Play gambling.
Betting-in-Play allows bettors the opportunity to bet on outcomes during a live event.
SIS Satellite Information Services Ladbrokes owns 23.4% of SIS, a leading supplier of television Category B2 gaming machine programming and sports data to licensed betting offices in the UK, Ireland, Gaming machine with maximum stake of 100 and maximum prize of Isle of Man and Channel Islands.
Unique Active Player Category B3 gaming machine A player who has contributed to rake and or placed a wager in the period.
Gaming machine with maximum stake of 2 and maximum prize of 500.
Yield per Unique Active Player Cost per Acquisition Net Gaming Revenue divided by the number of Unique Active Players in the Total of all online and offline marketing spend including promotions and period.
bonuses netted from revenue, all affiliate expenses relating to deals where affiliates are paid a one-off fee for each sign-up and all bonus costs except those relating to sign-ups from revenue share affiliates divided by the aggregate of the number of real money sign-ups from non-affiliate sources and the number of real money sign-ups through affiliates that are paid a one-off fee.
EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
Gambling Act The Gambling Act 2005 is the primary piece of legislation governing gambling regulations in Great Britain.
GamCare A charitable organisation which provides counselling to those with gambling-related problems.
Gambling Commission Set up under the Gambling Act 2005, the Gambling Commission regulates casinos, bingo, gaming machines and lotteries.
It is also responsible for the regulation of betting and remote gambling, as well as helping to protect children and vulnerable people.
Gaming Machines Betting shops can operate machines with B2 content including old FOBT content and B3 content, as defined by the 2005 Gambling Act.
Gross Win Total customer stakes less customer winnings plus commission, i. e. the amount of money left behind by the customer.
MGD Machine Games Duty From 1 February 2013, Machine Games Duty has replaced the dual tax regime of VAT and AMLD.
MGD is charged at 20% of the gross profit generated from machine games.
Net Revenue Gross win less fair value adjustments, e. g. fair value of reward points, free bets and promotional bonuses, VAT and associate income.
Odds On Ladbrokes Loyalty scheme which awards customers with a point for every amount staked Over the Counter.
These points are then accumulated and can be redeemed for free bets, odds enhancements or win bonuses.
Designed and produced by MerchantCantos www.
com Printed by Pureprint Group using their environmental print technology, a guaranteed, low carbon, low waste, independently audited process that reduces the environmental impact of the printing process.
Pureprint Group is a CarbonNeutral company and is certified to Environmental Management System, ISO 14001 and registered to EMAS, the Eco Management and Audit Scheme.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Imperial House Imperial Drive Rayners Lane Harrow Middlesex HA2 7JW Telephone: 44 0 20 8868 8899 www.
com The distance by which Fiorente edged out Red Cadeux at the 2013 Melbourne Cup 6ft
