112 112 Independent auditors report to the members of Ladbrokes plc on the Company financial statements We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Ladbrokes Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the Company In our opinion: Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 17.
The financial reporting the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys Matters on which we are required to report by exception members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from or for the opinions we have formed.
branches not visited by us: or Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities set Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the out on page 111, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the accounting records and returns: or parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not the parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable made: or law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical we have not received all the information and explanations we require for Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Other matter An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Ladbrokes plc for the year ended 31 December 2013. financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the R W Wilson Senior statutory auditor financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements London and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based 24 February 2014 on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
