01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Audit & Risk Committee Report Physical quantities of inventory excluding consumables and net realisable value As detailed in the Use of estimates and judgments section in note 1 to the financial statements, inventory is held in a wide variety of forms across the value chain, and prior to production as a final metal, is always contained in a carrier material.
As such inventory is typically sampled and assays taken to determine the metal content and how this is split by metal, the accuracy of which can vary quite significantly depending on the nature of the vessels and the state of the material.
Furthermore, as detailed in the Inventories section in note 1 to the financial statements, inventory is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The PGM industry has seen costs increase, whilst prices continue to be subdued and volatile.
As such there is a risk that the cost of inventory exceeds its net realisable value.
Management reported to the Committee the procedures undertaken to determine the physical quantities of inventory at year end which included observation of count and sampling procedures by independent metallurgists.
Management highlighted to the Committee the estimation uncertainty in sampling and assays, and that a downward adjustment had been made to inventory quantities to allow for estimation uncertainty at various stages of the process.
Management reported to the Committee its calculations of the adjustment, and noted that the adjustment is dependent on the degree to which the nature and state of material allows for accurate measurement and sampling.
Finally, management reported that calculations had been undertaken to verify that the cost of inventory does not exceed its net realisable value.
The Committee scrutinised the inventory estimation adjustment calculations in conjunction with a history of stock count results and process losses as well as the procedures undertaken by management to confirm the physical existence of inventory.
The Committee was satisfied that a sufficiently robust process was followed to confirm the quantities of inventory, and that the net realisable value of inventory exceeds its cost at year end.
The auditor explained their audit procedures to test the physical quantities of inventory and to check the net realisable value calculations performed by management.
On the basis of their audit work, the auditor reported no misstatements that were material in the context of the financial statements as a whole.
Misstatements Management reported to the Committee that they were not aware of any material misstatements or immaterial misstatements made intentionally to achieve a particular presentation.
The auditors reported to the Committee the misstatements that they had found in the course of their work and no material amounts remain unadjusted.
The Committee confirmed that it was satisfied that the auditors had fulfilled their responsibilities with diligence and professional scepticism.
After reviewing the presentations and reports from management and consulting, where necessary, with the auditors, the Committee was satisfied that the financial statements appropriately addressed the critical judgements and key estimates both in respect to the amounts reported and the disclosures.
The Committee was also satisfied that the significant assumptions used for determining the value of assets and liabilities had been appropriately scrutinised, challenged and were sufficiently robust.
1.6 Internal audit The Company has an internal audit department comprising three in-house auditors, supported by the South African arm of  LLP PwC who provide specialist services in connection with matters such as IT security and treasury, which it would be inefficient to resource internally.
The Head of Internal Audit reports jointly to the Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee and to the CFO.
A total of 61 assignments were undertaken during the year across a cross-section of activities identified and prioritised by the internal auditors with input from management and the Committee.
The audit plan that was subsequently approved by the Committee targeted operational processes, aimed at testing the robustness of the mitigating controls and identifying improvement opportunities.
At the request of the Committee, the plan was further refined to align more closely with the principal risks faced by the Company.
Internal audit reports were reviewed in conjunction with operational and line management and then reviewed by the Exco.
Audit findings and the related management actions were tracked to completion by Internal Audit, and verified periodically after being reported by management as complete.
The Committee was provided with reports on material findings and recommendations and regular updates on the progress made by management in addressing the findings were also provided during the course of the year.
All action points were recorded on a Company-wide database to facilitate monitoring and accountability.
The Head of Internal Audit is also responsible for the Companys whistle-blowing programme and heads up the investigations unit comprising 7 investigators.
The primary focus of this team is addressing the risk of theft of PGMs, but they also have a significant role in helping counter copper cable theft, white collar crime and other criminal and unauthorised activities which could have a material impact on the business.
A review of the effectiveness of Internal Audit was carried out during the year by way of a questionnaire completed by those in the business who had been audited and the external auditors.
Having considered the results of this survey and a number of other factors, including the quality of reporting to the Committee and impartiality of the internal auditors, the Committee concluded that Internal Audit was in all respects effective.
