58 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Audit & Risk Committee Report Tendering of the external audit the Committee has considered the recommendations of the latest edition of the Code and related guidance in relation to tendering the external audit contract at least every ten years.
The Company faces a number of critical strategic challenges in the near term, all of which will be potentially time consuming for both management and the Board.
We are of the view that it will be less disruptive and potentially more effective if we align the tender of the external audit contract with the rotation of the current lead auditor, which is due to occur in November 2015.
We do not feel that this compromises shareholders interests in any way.
In addition to its routine business, I have agreed with the Chairman of the Board and management that there will be two key focus areas for the Committee over the next 12 18 months.
Firstly, more could and should be done in the area of risk management, and we will look again at the processes for the identification and assessment of risk.
Secondly, in support of this aim we will continue to monitor the internal audit function, with the aim of increasing the alignment between its programme and the Groups risk profile.
Yours faithfully Dr Len Konar Chairman, Audit & Risk Committee As noted in section 1.8 of the Corporate Governance Report, the Board delegates certain of its duties, responsibilities and powers to the Audit & Risk Committee, so that these can receive suitably focussed attention.
However, it acts on behalf of the full Board, and the matters reviewed and managed by the Committee remain the responsibility of the Directors taken as a whole.
1.1 Role of the Audit & Risk Committee The Audit & Risk Committee has delegated authority from the Board set out in its written terms of reference, available on the Companys website, which were last reviewed by the Board in March 2012.
The primary purposes of the Audit & Risk Committee are: to monitor the integrity of the Companys financial statements and regulatory announcements relating to its financial performance and review significant financial reporting judgements: to keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls, including financial controls and risk management systems: to provide the Board with an independent assessment of the Groups accounting affairs and financial position: to monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function and review its material findings: to oversee the relationship with the external auditors, including agreeing their remuneration and terms of engagement, monitoring their independence, objectivity and effectiveness, ensuring that policy surrounding their engagement to provide non-audit services is appropriately applied, and making recommendations to the Board on their appointment, reappointment or removal, for it to put to the shareholders in general meeting: and to report to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
1.2 Composition of the Audit & Risk Committee The members of the Committee are set out in section 1.8 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Len Konar, who chairs the Committee, is a Chartered Accountant with extensive financial and accounting experience, and is a member of the King Committee on Corporate Governance.
Jim Sutcliffe is an actuary by training, and serves as a non-executive director of the Financial Reporting Council, where he chairs the Codes and Standards Committee.
Karen fide Segundo had a long career in international business, including spells with P&L responsibility for major natural resource businesses.
All three members of the Committee are regarded by the Board as independent Non-executive Directors, and the Board regards Dr Konar as the member possessing recent and relevant financial experience.
The varied backgrounds of the Committees members, and their collective skills, experience and knowledge of the Company, allows them to fulfil the Committees remit and to oversee the Companys auditors.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the CEO, CFO, Head of Accounting & Reporting, Head of Treasury, Risk & Tax, Head of Internal Audit and the Assistant Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee, none of whom do so as of right.
The external auditors attend Committee meetings and a private meeting is routinely held with the internal and external auditors to afford them the opportunity of discussions without the presence of management.
1.3 Number of Audit & Risk Committee meetings and attendance The Committee met four times during the year and attendance at those meetings is shown in section 1.8 of the Corporate Governance Report.
