64 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Audit & Risk Committee Report 1.8 Internal controls continued Throughout the year Lonmin complied with the provisions of the Code as these relate to internal controls and the relevant sections of Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors the Turnbull guidance and Guidance on Audit Committees.
No significant weaknesses or material failings were identified in the annual review.
1.9 Risk Management Lonmin has an integrated approach to risk management and internal controls to ensure that our reviews of risk are used to inform the internal audit process and the design of internal controls.
The risk management process, which has been in place throughout the year under review and to the date of approval of the accounts, identifies, evaluates, manages and monitors the risks facing the business.
Those risks that are identified as significant, in addition to the associated mitigating controls, are reviewed regularly by the Exco and then by the Board.
The Committee regularly reviews the effectiveness of the risk identification process and the methodology used to evaluate and quantify the risks, in line with the guidance appended to the Code.
The corporate strategy, which is reviewed on a regular basis, seeks to capitalise on identified opportunities while mitigating known downside risks.
Where material risks have been identified within our business, we have implemented an appropriate internal control environment to endeavour to protect shareholders interests.
Lonmins Risk Management Framework, policy and procedures aim to: Enable management to implement effective systems of risk identification, assessment and mitigation and internal controls: Assist management and the Board to determine Lonmins risk appetite and risk tolerance: Embed a risk based approach and awareness into the corporate culture so that risks are communicated and understood at all levels and functions within the Group: Encourage line management accountability for identifying and managing the risks within their area of the business: and Develop and implement risk management strategies which address the full spectrum of risks, including compliance, industry-specific, competitiveness, environmental, business continuity, strategic, reporting, security, privacy, and operational.
Top 10 Risks The top 10 risks and the associated mitigating controls are reviewed at least annually by the Exco and the Board.
Review of Risks Top-down and bottom-up risk reviews are carried out in each area of our business, involving the Exco, operational and middle managers respectively.
All senior managers are responsible for managing and monitoring risks in their area of responsibility and recording these in the risk register.
It is mandatory for this process to take place at least once a year but in practice reviews often take place more frequently.
For each risk identified, management assesses the root causes, consequences and mitigating controls.
An assessment is then made of the maximum risk exposure, taking into account parameters such as the risk category, the likelihood of the risk occurring, the impact before mitigating controls, the estimated efficacy of controls, the consequence of the failure of controls.
Each of the business areas is supported by either a Risk Officer or an Operational Risk Champion who co-ordinates all risk management activity in that business area and ensures that actions are implemented appropriately.
This process ensures all risks are measured, monitored and reported on a consistent basis.
In order to protect our strategic objectives, it is important that we manage these risks as effectively as possible.
The work of the Risk Management Department is closely aligned to that of the Internal Audit Department.
Risks related to sustainability Risks related to safety, labour and community relations, social development, transformation and environmental impacts make up a significant portion of Lonmins risk profile.
Each business area is responsible for managing safety and environmental impact mitigation and for monitoring the relevant action plans in place.
In this way, the Company ensures that focus on these areas is maintained and that accountability is embedded at operational management level.
Reviews of these risks and their associated management plans are conducted by the Safety & Sustainability and Transformation Committees, the results of which are presented to the Board.
Risk Management System To assist with the risk management process the Company embarked on a project in 2012 to implement the CURA risk management system.
This project was completed and the system implemented with effect from December 2012.
The application allows all users within the Group access to the risk registers through a web based system.
The methodology has been built on the same platform as the previous process and is integrated with the business model process.
The risk management process within the organisation also complies to, among others, King III, the Mines Health and Safety Act, environmental laws as well as alignment with leading practices such as ISO 31000.
