150 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial Statements Notes to the Company Accounts 33 Accounting policies continued Share options and own shares held In accordance with Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract 25 National Insurance Contributions on Share Option Gains UITF 25, the Company provides in full for the employers national insurance liability estimated to arise on the future exercise of share options granted.
As required under Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts UITF 38, the cost to the Company of own shares held is shown as a deduction from shareholders funds within the profit and loss account.
Consideration paid or received for the purchase or sale of the Companys own shares in the ESOP trust is shown separately in the reconciliation of movements in the shareholders funds.
Dividend reinvestment programme Under the Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan, shareholders can elect for the whole of their cash dividends to be reinvested in Lonmin Plc shares which are purchased on their behalf in the market.
All cash dividends are paid to the Registrars who use the dividends of participants in the plan to fund these purchases.
Accordingly, no new shares are issued, dividends are paid and accounted for in the normal way, and there are no special accounting requirements for the programme.
Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency of the Company using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the historic rate.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in the income statement, except for differences arising on the retranslation of available for sale financial assets, which are recognised directly in equity.
Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure All exploration and expenses relate to pre-feasibility work and, in line with Group policy, are expensed as incurred.
Finance expenses Finance expenses comprise interest expense on borrowings, bank fees including bank fees which are capitalised and amortised over the life of the facility, interest costs of pension scheme liabilities, and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
34 Tangible fixed assets Fixtures and fittings $m Cost: At 1 October 2012 3 Additions Disposals At 30 September 2013 3 Depreciation: At 1 October 2012 2 Charge for the year Disposals At 30 September 2013 2 Net book value: At 30 September 2013 1 At 1 October 2012 1
