01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Audit & Risk Committee Report 1.7 External audit continued A predecessor firm of KPMG Audit plc was first appointed in 1970 and, since that time, the lead audit partner at group level has changed regularly and in recent years every five years in accordance with professional and regulatory standards designed to safeguard independence and objectivity.
The most recent lead audit partner rotation was in November 2010 when Robert Seale was appointed Senior Statutory Auditor.
In addition, senior audit staff, who are located both in the United Kingdom and South Africa, rotate periodically in accordance with KPMGs internal policies on independence.
A formal tender of the external audit contract has not been carried out since first appointment.
The Committee has considered the timing of the next formal tender in light of the recommendations contained in the September 2012 edition of the Code, and expect that this will be aligned with the date on which the current lead audit partner ceases to act.
There are no contractual obligations which restrict the Committees choice of statutory auditor.
1.8 Internal controls As in any business, Lonmin faces risk and uncertainty in everything it does.
Section 1.9 explains how we consider risk, and how the corporate strategy, which is reviewed on a regular basis, seeks to capitalise on identified opportunities while mitigating known downside risks.
Where material risks have been identified within our business, we have implemented an appropriate internal control environment to endeavour to protect shareholders interests.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal controls and risk management, and it discharges its duties in this area by: Determining Lonmins risk appetite the risk we actively seek or accept in pursuit of our long-term objectives, in the expectation of an economic return and risk tolerance the risk we are prepared to face in achieving our strategic goals : Overseeing the risk management strategy: and Ensuring management implement effective systems of risk identification, assessment and mitigation and internal controls.
These systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and cannot provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Key features of Lonmins internal control framework include: Clear delegation of power Agreed objectives Agreed ways of working Transparency Charter, values Clear accountability and Code of Management reporting Schedule of Matters Group Strategy, supported Business Conduct against budgets, reserved for the by Life of Business Plan, Documented policies, plans and forecasts Boards decision resource database procedures, processes and model Annual management Remit and terms of and standards confirmation letters reference of Board Annual financial and Risk management Committees technical budgets supported by policy and procedures Delegation of authority Risk tolerance Annual audit and Appropriate tools to each level appetite clearly defined other external including SAP, mine of management assurance providers planning, metallurgical tracking and accounting, Internal audit and other and risk systems in-house review processes Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting, including over the Groups consolidation process.
Internal controls over financial reporting are designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes.
A comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting and forecasting system is in place.
Monthly financial information, including trading results and cash flow statements, are reported to the Board and management.
The Exco reviews performance against budget and forecast on a monthly basis and senior financial managers regularly carry out group consolidation reviews and analysis of material variances.
Responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the internal controls has been delegated to the Audit & Risk Committee.
The Committee uses information drawn from a number of different sources to carry out this review: Internal Audit provides objective assurance their annual work plan is developed in conjunction with management and focuses on key risks and key internal controls.
In the light of Internal Audits recommendations, management develops and implements corrective action plans, which are tracked to completion by Internal Audit, with the results reported to executive management and to the Committee: Annual self-assessments completed by around 70 executive and senior managers in the Group each manager confirms whether there have been any breaches of internal controls or their awareness of any weaknesses in the control environment within their area of the business.
The principle of individual accountability and responsibility at operational level is an important component in the Groups overall risk philosophy.
Managers are responsible for the identification and effective management of all risks in their areas of responsibility and these letters have a wide ranging scope: and Further objective assurance is provided by the external auditors and other external specialists.
