148 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial Statements Notes to the Company Accounts 33 Accounting policies Basis of preparation The Lonmin Plc the Company balance sheet and related notes have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice UK GAAP and in accordance with UK company law.
The financial information has been prepared on a historic cost basis as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis, as detailed in note 1 of the Group financial statements.
The following principal accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Companys financial statements.
The Companys functional currency is the US dollar.
The reporting currency is also the US dollar.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in Section 408 4 of the Companies Act 2006 from presenting its own profit and loss account.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements and has not prepared a cash flow statement.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 and has therefore not disclosed transactions or balances with wholly owned subsidiaries which form part of the group headed by Lonmin Plc.
Available for sale assets The Companys listed investment is measured at fair value and any changes are recognised directly in equity except when the asset is impaired, then the impairment losses are taken to the income statement.
Fair value is determined by using the market price at the balance sheet date when this is available.
For investments for which market price is not available the Directors best estimate of market value is used.
Investment in subsidiaries The Companys investment in shares in Group companies are stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
The principal subsidiaries of the Company are LSA UK Limited registered in England and AfriOre Limited registered in the British Virgin Islands which are both wholly owned by the Company.
LSA UK Limited holds the investments in Western Platinum Limited, Eastern Platinum Limited and Messina Platinum Mines Limited.
AfriOre Limited holds the investment in Akanani Mining Proprietary Limited.
For more information see note 32 of the Group financial statements.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are recorded at cost or valuation, which are not updated under the transitional arrangements of FRS 15 Tangible Fixed Assets, less depreciation.
Depreciation on fixed assets is provided on a straight-line basis.
Assets are depreciated over their estimated useful economic lives to residual value.
Depreciation rates for the principal assets of the Company are as follows: Method Useful economic life Rate Short-term leasehold property Straight line Over the life of the lease 3 5 years Fixtures and Fittings Straight line 10% 33% per annum 3 10 years Tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the net present value of expected future cash flows of the relevant income generating unit or disposal value if higher in accordance with FRS 11.
Financial instruments The Companys principal financial instruments other than derivatives comprise bank loans, investments, cash and short-term deposits.
Bank loans were initially recorded at fair value, and have subsequently been recorded at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
