62 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Audit & Risk Committee Report 1.7 External audit The external auditors are appointed by shareholders to provide an opinion on the financial statements and certain other disclosures prepared by the Directors.
Following their re-election at the 2013 AGM, KPMG Audit plc acted as the external auditors to the Lonmin Group throughout the year.
The Senior Statutory Auditor is based in London and supported by an audit partner based in Johannesburg.
The Committee is responsible for oversight of the external auditors, including approving the annual work plan and, on behalf of the Board, approving the audit fee.
To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditors, the Company adopted an Audit Engagement Policy in 2010, a copy of which is available on the Companys website.
Under this policy, the external auditors are not permitted to perform any work that they may subsequently need to audit or which might either create a conflict of interest or affect the auditors objectivity and independence.
Non-audit services are normally limited to assignments that are closely related to the annual audit or where the work is of such a nature that a detailed understanding of the Group is necessary.
Management regularly provides the Committee with reports on audit, audit-related and non-audit expenditure, together with proposals of any material non-audit related assignments.
The Committee reviews and, where necessary, challenges management to ensure auditor objectivity and independence is not impaired.
The policy provides for the following annual authorisation limits: Audit-related services Non-audit services Chief Financial Officer $200,000 $100,000 Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee $500,000 $250,000 Audit & Risk Committee $500,000 $250,000 Fees for audit related and non-audit services incurred during the year amounted to $1.3 million 2012 $0.6 million representing 118% of the audit fees.
Details of the fees paid for audit services, audit related services and non-audit services can be found in note 4 to the financial statements.
$0.2 million of the non-audit work related to the external auditors review of the business management operating model and a related organisational re-design exercise.
A formal tender process was undertaken involving three firms, one of which included KPMG.
Of these, two were short-listed and invited to present their respective proposals to the Exco.
The Exco found KPMG provided the most comprehensive proposal and scope of works, they had significant experience of this kind of work within the industry and they were able to mobilise an appropriately skilled and experienced team within the necessary timescales.
Importantly, the Exco was assured that the consulting division of KPMG that was not involved in the external audit of the Company and its subsidiaries would be involved in this project.
On this basis, the Committee approved managements recommendation to appoint KPMG.
The other substantial non-audit work undertaken by KPMG, amounting to $0.68 million, related to their appointment as Reporting Accountant in respect of the 2012 Rights Issue.
Extensive financial information was provided in the Rights Issue Prospectus in respect of prior financial reporting periods and, in light of KPMGs position as statutory auditor of the Company for those prior financial periods and for the FY2012 financial year, the Committee felt that KPMG were best placed to undertake this non-audit work.
The Committee was assured that the use of the external auditors in this capacity was considered normal practice in such capital raisings.
On balance, the Committee is satisfied that the overall levels of audit-related and non-audit fees are not material relative to the income of the external audit offices and firm as a whole and therefore the objectivity and independence of the external auditors was not compromised.
The Committee has evaluated the performance, independence and objectivity of KPMG and also reviewed their effectiveness as external auditors.
As part of this process, the Committee considered feedback on the years audit gathered through a survey facilitated by the Secretary to the Committee.
Respondents to the survey included the financial management team at corporate and business levels, company secretariat, the safety and sustainability, tax and stock-taking teams and the internal auditors.
The following factors were also considered: the external auditors progress achieved against the agreed audit plan and communication of any changes to the plan, including changes in perceived audit risks: the competence with which the external auditors handled the key accounting and audit judgements and communication of the same with management and the Committee: the external auditors compliance with relevant regulatory, ethical and professional guidance on the rotation of partners: the external auditors qualifications, expertise and resources and their own assessment of their internal quality procedures: and the stability and continuity that would be provided by continuing to use KPMG.
After taking into account all of the above factors, the Committee concluded that the external auditors were effective.
KPMG Audit Plc informed the Company that they wished to formally change the entity which conducts the Companys audit from KPMG Audit Plc to KPMG LLP.
KPMG Audit Plc has indicated therefore that it will not stand for reappointment at the Companys 2014 AGM, however KPMG LLP will seek election at this meeting.
The Committee decided to recommend to the Board that KPMG LLP be appointed as external auditor to the Company at the AGM.
The Committee also recommended the Board seek authority for the Directors to fix the external auditors remuneration.
