146 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 31 Rights Issue Overview of the Rights Issue offer On 9 November 2012, Lonmin announced a fully underwritten 9 for 5 Rights Issue of 365,503,264 new shares at 140 pence per new share for shareholders on the London Stock Exchange and at ZAR19.4872 per new share for shareholders on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
The offer period commenced on 20 November 2012 and closed for acceptance on 10 December 2012.
The final number of shares issued was 365,496,943.
In the prospectus, Lonmin anticipated raising $817 million of total proceeds which, net of expenses of $40 million would raise funds of $777 million.
The issue was successful with a take up of just below 97% and the remaining 3% raised through a rump placement.
The Company raised total net proceeds of $767 million which was slightly below expectations given in the prospectus as a result of exchange differences between the prospectus exchange rate and that achieved $4 million as well as expenses being $5 million more than anticipated.
Accounting for the Rights Issue The Rights Issue proceeds were received over the offer period and initially credited to a shares to be issued account at the prevailing spot exchange rates at the dates of receipt resulting in the recognition of cash inflow of $823 million before the impact of hedging arrangements.
The retranslation of these receipts at the spot rate on closing resulted in a $1 million exchange gain recognised through finance income as a special item.
Share capital and share premium of $365 million and $459 million respectively were recognised on the statement of financial position using the spot exchange rate on the date of issuance being 11 December 2012.
$45 million of issue costs were also recognised and charged against share premium.
Therefore the total net increase in share capital and share premium was $779 million.
In order to minimise the risk of the exposure to currency fluctuations on the Rand and Sterling proceeds expected, the Group entered into forward exchange contracts in synchronisation with the Rights Issue process.
The Dollar weakened over the offer period resulting in the Rand and Sterling proceeds received and translated at prevailing spot rates being more than due under the forward exchange contracts.
This resulted in the recognition of exchange losses of $11 million.
This $11 million fair value loss cannot be offset against equity which it was effectively hedging for economic purposes as, under IFRS, hedge accounting can only be applied to cash flows which ultimately affect profit and loss.
The loss on forward exchange contracts has therefore been shown as a special charge in finance costs in the income statement.
The offset is effectively in the recognition of a higher credit to the share premium account.
A summary of the above transaction is shown below: $m Cash proceeds received at spot rates 823 Foreign exchange gain on retranslation of advance cash proceeds 1 Gross increase in share capital and share premium 824 Costs of issue charged to share premium 45 Net increase in share capital and share premium 779 Loss on settlement of forward exchange contracts 11 i Total 768 Footnote: i Net cash proceeds amounted to $767 million excluding the foreign exchange gain on retranslation of advance cash proceeds of $1 million.
32 Principal Group companies The following companies have been consolidated in the Group accounts and materially contributed to the assets and or results of the Group and are classified according to their main activity.
Effective Interest in ordinary Country of share capital Principal Company incorporation % activities Eastern Platinum Ltd South Africa 86.2% Subsidiary Platinum mining Western Platinum Ltd South Africa 86.2% Subsidiary Platinum mining and refining Messina Platinum Mines Ltd South Africa 86.2% Subsidiary Platinum mining Akanani Mining Proprietary Ltd South Africa 80.1% Subsidiary Mineral exploration and evaluation A full list of Group companies will be included in the annual return registered with Companies House.
