Westerns comprises Rowland, Newman and W1.
Middelkraal represents Hossy and Saffy.
2 Pandora underground and opencast tonnes mined represents 100% of the total tonnes mined on the Pandora joint venture of which 42.5% is attributable to Lonmin.
3 Ounces mined have been calculated at achieved concentrator recoveries and industry standard downstream processing losses to present produced saleable ounces.
4 Tonnes milled excludes slag milling.
5 Lonmin purchases 100% of the ore produced by the Pandora joint venture for onward processing which is included in downstream operating statistics.
6 Head grade is the grammes per tonne 5PGE Au value contained in the tonnes milled and fed into the concentrator from the mines excludes slag milled.
7 Recovery rate in the concentrators is the total content produced divided by the total content milled excluding slag.
8 Metals in concentrate include metal derived from slag processing and have been calculated at industry standard downstream processing losses to present produced saleable ounces.
9 Corresponds to contained base metals in concentrate.
10 Nickel is produced and sold as nickel sulphate crystals or solution and the volumes shown correspond to contained metal.
Copper is produced as refined product but typically at LME grade C. Chrome is produced in the form of chromite concentrate and volumes shown are in the form of chromite.
11 Concentrate and other sales have been adjusted to a saleable ounce basis using industry standard recovery rates.
12 Basket price of PGMs is based on the revenue generated in Rand and Dollar from the actual PGMs 5PGE Au sold in the period based on the appropriate Rand Dollar exchange rate applicable for each sales transaction.
13 As per note 10 but including revenue from base metals.
2 It should be noted that with the restructuring of the business in 2011, 2010 and 2009 the cost allocation between business units has been changed and, therefore, whilst the total is on a like-for-like basis, individual line items are not totally comparable.
3 Comprises of Smelting and Refining costs as well as direct Process Operations shared costs.
4 Exchange rates are calculated using the market average daily closing rate over the course of the period.
5 The cost per PGM ounce sold has been replaced by the cost of production from 2013.
