01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our Strategy SO HOW DO WE BUILD ON THESE UNIQUE ADVANTAGES TO DRIVE SHAREHOLDER AND STAKEHOLDER VALUE IN THE FUTURE?
The Evolving Picture The evolution of our strategy is based on a simple principle: we must maintain, then improve that which we do well and deliver step changes in performance in those areas where we can and must do better.
Lonmin has considerable strengths and there is much the business is doing successfully, but there are other areas where the Company needs to do significantly better, particularly around employee relationships and stakeholder engagement.
In these areas the evolution needs to be faster and stronger.
Below we set out our broad strategic approach to these key issues.
Strategic and Operational Imperatives At our annual results presentation on 11 November 2013 Lonmins Chief Executive Officer, Ben Magara, laid out significant changes in strategy based around four management pillars: Our People and Relationships Operational Credibility and Excellence Value Optimisation Management VOMA Sustainability and Social Agenda Our People and Relationships Relationships, in terms of how we interact with our employees and stakeholders, will be a key driver of our future success.
Here we require a new approach to delivery.
In the past, even where we have done good work, we have not brought to bear the same delivery focus we have applied to operational issues.
We understand the context within which we operate.
As a hugely labour-intensive business the future of mining in South Africa is inexorably linked to the development of the country as a whole.
The nations democracy is young and evolving rapidly.
That change brings pressures in all areas of life, including on business.
Lonmin acknowledges it must play its part and recognises that only as a thriving business can it make real changes around social development.
As the nations economy has grown there have been many winners, not least a newly empowered black middle class.
Yet the challenges of poverty, unemployment and lack of education and skills remain with us.
Beyond compliance with our Social and Labour Plans SLPs, we remain committed to work with communities to create sustainable change.
Whilst mining has been in a period of sustained transformation for almost two decades in South Africa, partly as companies work to be better corporate citizens and partly thanks to legislation around issues such as BEE and wider transformation, companies have found themselves consistently in the spotlight where these national socio-economic priorities are concerned.
Given the size of large mining operations, the scale of workforces and the impact on communities surrounding mining properties, this is inevitable.
What has become clear in recent years though is that the need and demand for change is accelerating.
More recently still, Lonmin has been thrust into the centre of the debate on these issues by events and it has become clear to the Company that its future as a business rests as much on the relationship it has with its employees and wider stakeholder group as it does on the core fundamentals of mining and markets.
Lonmin no longer subscribes to the idea that these are hard and soft issues.
The reality is that demand for Lonmins metals is expected to be solid and sustainable for the foreseeable future, and that the Company has excellent assets but to deliver that value for shareholders and all its stakeholders the business must operate effectively in a sustainable environment.
The Companys vision, then, is for operational excellence to marry with optimisation of value in a reliable environment where all Lonmins stakeholders are supportive of the business and wish to see it prosper.
That delivers both shareholder and stakeholder value.
It is a fact that this end state cannot be delivered by Lonmin alone, but the Company believes that in doing its part, effecting change where it can sustainably and with sound fiscal judgement it unlocks action elsewhere.
com 14 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our Strategy Ben Magara, who joined in July 2013, has made clear that the status quo in mining will no longer deliver the environment companies need for success.
Ben is clear that the old win-lose positions which existed on each new area of negotiation and change with stakeholders, from employees and unions to communities and government, were unsustainable.
Ben visited our shafts, plants and the communities around them and went to the areas of South Africa from which most of our employees come.
He also visited the families of those who lost their lives during the terrible Events at Marikana last year.
All these groups of people expressed to him the shared wish of wanting Lonmin to succeed.
This is important and encouraging, given that we regard the support of all our stakeholders as crucial in stripping uncertainty from our business and driving higher performance.
Lonmin will work towards the win-win outcomes which all stakeholders on a given issue feel they can support.
We have employed this ethos in our union recognition agreements already this year, achieving success many thought hard to find.
Helping to build competitive advantage through a supportive workforce, this approach relies on rebuilding trust with our stakeholders and creating positions in which they feel they have as much to gain from a successful Lonmin as the Company itself does.
Operational Credibility and Excellence All our operational issues start with safety.
It is our number one priority and has its own section in this report in page 27.
The overarching principle in the way we view our operations is that we believe that our goal of zero harm is achievable, that all injuries and fatalities are avoidable and that people should be able to return safely to their homes at the end of the day.
Lonmin has a good safety record and some of our shafts are rightly proud of being industry leading, but if we are to regain our record as the safest miner in our sector we need to revisit this area.
We must also drive this excellence approach across our wider operational work.
Given our cautious view of the near and medium-term PGM markets which are covered in detail on page 18 of this report it is vital that we ensure we are working our assets as well as possible and focussing on hard costs, thus driving profitability.
Lonmin believes that even in the present markets it should be able to produce and sell at a profitable and sustainable level, with market improvements a bonus down the line.
The foundation of this has been the Lonmin Renewal Plan LRP, which has been implemented successfully in 2013 and allowed us to ramp up operations after the lengthy disruptions and tragedies of 2012 we surpassed our guidance targets.
The LRP remains fully supported by management but in order to plan more effectively for our future we will look strategically and holistically at all our assets and properties, reviewing them to decide where we have the balance right, where we need to invest in an asset and where, if necessary, we need to make difficult decisions.
Combined with this we will work to avoid executing too many projects concurrently to ensure capital efficiency by bringing the projects to steady state capacity where possible before starting new ones.
Having a more linear approach to projects will, the Company believes, allow for greater financial transparency and certainty and aids long-term fiscal planning.
Saffy Shaft Investment in Saffy, both historically and more recently in line with the LRP, has been significant.
That investment has developed a large body of ore reserves which now give the shaft the ability to deliver on a sizable scale through better filling the shaft hoisting capacity and optimising efficiencies.
The majority of the investment in Saffy has already been made.
We expect Saffy to mine 200,000 tonnes per month when it reaches full capacity making this Lonmins second largest shaft.
The fide-bottlenecking implemented at Rowland shaft is beginning to show success, and we will bring this approach to bear at Saffy.
At the same time the available ore reserves at Saffy now provide flexibility and additional stoping crews have been deployed from other shafts to Saffy to facilitate its ramp up in 2014.
This was a reorganisation of the workforce, not addition of headcount.
The Company believes that continuing to invest in Saffy is the best use of capital at this stage, optimising efficiencies and enabling growth at the right time.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our Strategy 2.
K4 Shaft K4 shaft will remain on care and maintenance.
We expect to see capital expenditure at K4 in preparation for a potential start-up in 2015, market conditions permitting.
Value Optimisation Management VOMA VOMA is the name we give our drive to ensure we are working as efficiently, profitably and strategically as possible.
It drives our thinking across the business and will do so even more in 2014.
With overarching strategic priorities set by the Board and Executive Committee Exco, VOMA helps us ensure that the entire business is constantly thinking about ways to deliver more value.
From our work on VOMA stems our strategic near and medium-term plans: 1.
Near-term Return on Saffy investment: Cash generation and cash conservation: Fixed and overhead cost management: and Business improvement initiatives: Total Cost of Ownership and Theory of Constraints.
Medium-term Ensuring production flexibility to respond to changing market conditions: Working to continually identify and evaluate opportunities to enhance value.
Tailings Re-treatment We are also advancing our PGM Tailings Re-treatment project, where we expect to mine one of our old tailings dams hydraulically for the extraction of both PGMs and chrome.
Re-treatment of old tailings is not new in mining and is a great source of medium-term value.
This will allow us to tap into a low risk, low cost on surface asset to enhance our overall profitability.
It is crucial to balance capacity through the value chain and ensure capital efficiency, In this regard, profitable opportunities are pursued through business optimisation, continuous improvement and new value sources.
To this extent process teams have improved safety, recovery and cost performance by leveraging both our current ore and equipment assets, whilst in mining we have doubled available ore reserves over the last five years.
com 16 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our Strategy Sustainability and Social Agenda Details of our work in these areas in 2013 can be found in the Performance section of the Annual Report and Accounts from page 31.
Here we will lay out the strategy behind that work and how we intend to apply it in the future.
These are huge challenges and link strongly to our strategy around people and relationships, but in the simplest terms they can be defined as: a The quality of life of our employees, their families and the communities who live on and around our operations.
These include, but are not limited to: infrastructure, housing, education and health, and being a good corporate citizen of South Africa.
b Environmental issues the impact our operations have on the areas they are situated, and more widely.
These include, but are not limited to: power, water, pollution and noise.
Many of these issues go to the heart of our licence to operate, both morally and in some cases technically and legally.
They are vital for our future.
We must not only do what is asked of us, but do more and move beyond simple compliance.
Areas of social infrastructure policy are complicated by the fact that, however large, a business cannot deliver on the scale required.
Our relationships with stakeholders such as government assist in the delivery of social infrastructure where we form effective partnerships.
But we can make a difference, and in collaboration with all stakeholders, we believe we will.
The fact remains that housing is the most pressing challenge we face, and the one which is perhaps the most obvious example of the unacceptable quality of life standards for many people.
Our Marikana assets will produce for decades to come.
As a result we need to take a long-term view of housing requirements as we plan our life of mine.
Whether housed in rented, bonded or owned properties, we must do more to ensure a long-term, sustainable community at Marikana.
No company is large enough to single handedly deal with the national problem of housing and remain viable and unless companies are viable and profitable they can do nothing at all, but Lonmin believes that it must formulate a more ambitious and innovative approach to the housing issue in partnership with other stakeholders, as dictated by one of the initiatives the Companys Board identified as crucial at the start of 2013.
We are working on a number of solutions and intend to say more as details emerge.
In relation to environmental impact the Company remains committed to its long-held zero harm aspiration.
We use innovative solutions to try to minimise our power and water usage essential given issues with supply in South Africa.
We have set ourselves tough targets across the board on issues of sustainability and are determined to meet them.
This is a key area where we want to build on another emerging driver for delivery industry collaboration.
It is clear that many of the issues facing Lonmin are faced equally by all miners in South Africa.
The Government has recognised this and 2013 has seen welcome interventions in a number of areas, most notably labour unrest, the changing face of the union landscape, and peace and sustainability of the mining industry.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our Strategy Lonmin believes that its future, and those of its shareholders and stakeholders, are best served by supporting the drive for the wider industry to speak with cohesion.
This will avoid duplication of effort and give the industry a stronger voice in the debate with government and the wider public, both in South Africa and globally.
Lonmin is active in the Chamber of Mines, International Council on Mining and Metals and other organisations which seek to advance this view.
This is strongly linked to issues around sustainability, be they environmental, around water or power or about the long-term impact our operations have on communities.
Lonmin has clear plans, strategies and commitments in all these areas and continues to work to further those in a way which is sustainable in terms of the viability and health of its operations.
We do this in conjunction with our stakeholders in government, the NGO sector, communities and employees.
This focus on collaboration impacts across our wider business strategy, in all areas.
Human Rights The Company welcomes the implementation of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and legal developments in the countries in which we operate in support of those Principles.
Avoiding infringing the human rights of others and addressing any adverse impacts in which we are involved are at the heart of how we do business.
However, we currently lack a formalised response to the Principles and intend to make an appropriate policy commitment, undertake due diligence to assess actual and potential human rights impacts whether direct or indirect and act upon the findings of that review, track the effectiveness of our responses and communicate this in future years reporting.
Some of the building blocks necessary are already in place, such as participation and engagement, and transparent, equitable and predictable grievance mechanisms, but we understand that more could, and should, be done.
Companies are required to address adverse human rights issues with which they were involved in their reporting.
The tragic events at Lonmins Marikana facilities took place in 2012, but clearly the Company is deeply involved in the repercussions, predominantly in working to rebuild trust with employees and communities.
We are constrained in what we can say in this document about the events themselves because The Farlam Inquiry, a judicial body set up by the South African Government to examine the events which led up to the police shootings and the events of the day itself is ongoing.
Lonmin, which wholly supports Judge Farlams inquiry, committed not to discuss the details around these issues publicly until it had given evidence to the inquiry, something we expect to take place in early 2014.
It should be noted, however, that we do talk in great detail in this report about our efforts to build community cohesion, repair relationships, build trust, deliver on our social responsibilities and work in partnership to bring about real change.
Although much of this work predates the Events at Marikana in 2012, that tragedy has had a huge impact in all these areas.
