01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Directors Report 3.3 Powers conferred on the Directors in relation to share capital continued The nature and extent of these authorities are summarised below: Amount of authority outstanding Authority Utilisation during the year at the end of the year 19 November 2012 Power granted 365,496,943 Shares were issued by To the extent not utilised, this authority to allot equity securities with a nominal way of a 9 for 5 Rights Issue expired at the conclusion of the AGM value of up to $826m on 31 January 2013 31 January 2013 Power granted No shares were issued during the year Authority remains outstanding in to allot equity securities with a nominal pursuant to this authority full until the next AGM or, if earlier, value of up to $189.3m 30 April 2014 31 January 2013 Power granted at The Company made no purchases of Authority remains outstanding in AGM to make market purchases of its its own shares during the year full until the next AGM or, if earlier, own shares, up to a maximum of 30 April 2014 56,800,000 shares being approximately 10% of the issued share capital at prices not less than the nominal value of each share being $1 and not exceeding 105% of the average mid-market price for the preceding five business days No shares were acquired by forfeiture or surrender or made subject to a lien or charge.
During the year, 900,000 Ordinary Shares of $1 each Shares were issued for cash, to satisfy the exercise of options or the vesting of awards granted under the Companys employee share plans see note 25 to the accounts.
However, these do not count against the allotment authority summarised in the table as each of the share plans had previously been approved by the shareholders in general meeting.
Transactions, Contractual Arrangements and Post-Balance Sheet Events 4.1 Transactions with Related Parties There was one transaction with a related party during the year, other than those in the ordinary course of business.
On 25 September 2013 a subsidiary company, Western Platinum Limited made a non-interest bearing loan of R110 million to Incwala Platinum Pty Limited Incwala, the Companys BEE partner, and committed to make a further non-interest bearing loan of R160 million by no later than 31 March 2014.
Incwala owns beneficially more than 10% of the share capital of two material operating subsidiaries, Eastern Platinum Limited and Western Platinum Limited, and is therefore a related party.
Further disclosure is in note 27 to the financial statements.
4.2 Significant Agreements change of control A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as debt facilities and employee share plans.
None of these are deemed to be significant except for the Companys bank debt facilities in the amount of approximately $600 million spread across three separate bilateral ZAR facilities and a syndicated USD facility, which includes seven banks.
These facilities contain provisions under which, in the event that new terms to continue the facility are not agreed within ten days of a change of control in respect of the ZAR facilities and 30 days in respect of the USD facility, the lender is entitled to give notice cancelling the facility and declaring all outstanding loans together with accrued interest to become payable within 15 days of such notice.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a change of control, except that certain provisions in some of the Companys long-term incentive schemes may be triggered.
Awards made under the Stay & Prosper Plan crystallise immediately following a change of control, although they only vest and become payable on their normal maturity date three years from the date of grant and are subject generally to the continued employment of the participant.
Directors of the Company are not permitted to hold awards under this Plan.
Awards under the Companys other share plans will vest on a change of control, save to the extent specified by the Remuneration Committee, who will generally take into account the extent to which the performance targets have been met and such other factors as they believe to be appropriate in line with the rules of the relevant plans.
Further information on these plans and other long-term incentives, including the Special Award granted to Simon Scott in FY2012 and the retention award granted to Mr Magara on his appointment, is provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 99.
4.3 Post-Balance Sheet events There have been no material events from 30 September 2013 to the date of this report.
