148 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial Statements Notes to the Company Accounts 33 Accounting policies Basis of preparation The Lonmin Plc the Company balance sheet and related notes have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice UK GAAP and in accordance with UK company law.
The financial information has been prepared on a historic cost basis as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis, as detailed in note 1 of the Group financial statements.
The following principal accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Companys financial statements.
The Companys functional currency is the US dollar.
The reporting currency is also the US dollar.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in Section 408 4 of the Companies Act 2006 from presenting its own profit and loss account.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements and has not prepared a cash flow statement.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 and has therefore not disclosed transactions or balances with wholly owned subsidiaries which form part of the group headed by Lonmin Plc.
Available for sale assets The Companys listed investment is measured at fair value and any changes are recognised directly in equity except when the asset is impaired, then the impairment losses are taken to the income statement.
Fair value is determined by using the market price at the balance sheet date when this is available.
For investments for which market price is not available the Directors best estimate of market value is used.
Investment in subsidiaries The Companys investment in shares in Group companies are stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
The principal subsidiaries of the Company are LSA UK Limited registered in England and AfriOre Limited registered in the British Virgin Islands which are both wholly owned by the Company.
LSA UK Limited holds the investments in Western Platinum Limited, Eastern Platinum Limited and Messina Platinum Mines Limited.
AfriOre Limited holds the investment in Akanani Mining Proprietary Limited.
For more information see note 32 of the Group financial statements.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are recorded at cost or valuation, which are not updated under the transitional arrangements of FRS 15 Tangible Fixed Assets, less depreciation.
Depreciation on fixed assets is provided on a straight-line basis.
Assets are depreciated over their estimated useful economic lives to residual value.
Depreciation rates for the principal assets of the Company are as follows: Method Useful economic life Rate Short-term leasehold property Straight line Over the life of the lease 3 5 years Fixtures and Fittings Straight line 10% 33% per annum 3 10 years Tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the net present value of expected future cash flows of the relevant income generating unit or disposal value if higher in accordance with FRS 11.
Financial instruments The Companys principal financial instruments other than derivatives comprise bank loans, investments, cash and short-term deposits.
Bank loans were initially recorded at fair value, and have subsequently been recorded at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 149 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial Statements Notes to the Company Accounts 33 Accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are principally used by the Company to manage exposure to market risks from treasury operations.
The principal derivative instruments used are interest rate swaps which the Company has designated as cash flow hedges.
The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised in the statement of financial position at fair value and then remeasured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
Attributable costs are recognised in profit or loss when incurred.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Hedging derivatives are classified on inception as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges.
HDSA receivable The HDSA receivable was recognised initially at fair value, and subsequently recorded at amortised cost.
Accounting for the financing provided by the Company for Shandukas acquisition of the non-controlling interests in the Companys principal subsidiaries is considered in note 14 of the Group accounts.
Leases Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Current Tax The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes account of the taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19.
Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits For current employees, the Company either makes payments on behalf of employees into a defined contribution scheme which the Company has set up, or makes direct payments to employees who may then make their own arrangements.
A defined contribution scheme is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Company pays fixed contributions into a separate legal entity and had no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement when they are due.
Share-based payments Equity settled schemes From the grant date the fair value of options granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the shares.
Cash settled schemes The fair value of the amount payable to employees in respect of share appreciation rights, which are settled in cash, is recognised as an expense, with corresponding increase in liabilities, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment.
The liability is remeasured at each reporting date and at settlement date.
Any changes in the fair value of the liability are recognised as a employee expense in the income statement.
Basis of fair value The fair value of each option or share appreciation right is determined using either a Black-Scholes option pricing model or a Monte Carlo projection model depending on the type of the award.
Market related performance conditions are reflected in the fair value of the share.
Non-market related performance conditions are allowed for using a separate assumption about the number of awards expected to vest: the final charge made reflects the numbers actually vested on the basis that non-market conditions are met.
