01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 59 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Audit & Risk Committee Report 1.4 Activities of the Audit & Risk Committee during the year The Committee has an annual work plan, developed from its terms of reference, with standing items that the Committee considers at each meeting in addition to any specific matters arising and topical items on which the Committee has chosen to focus.
The work of the Audit & Risk Committee in FY2013 principally fell under three main areas and is summarised below.
Internal controls and risk External auditors Accounting, tax and financial reporting Considered reports from the Considered and approved the Reviewed the half year and annual internal auditors on their audits audit approach and scope of the financial statements and the and assessment of the control audit work to be undertaken by significant financial reporting environment the external auditors and the fees judgements for the same Considered reports from the Reviewed the Q2 production external auditors on their Reviewed reports on audit findings report assessment of the control Considered the independence of Considered the liquidity risk and environment the auditors and their effectiveness, the basis for preparing the Group Considered feedback from the taking into account: half yearly and full year accounts assurance letters submitted by on a going concern basis and a non-audit work undertaken around 70 senior managers reviewed the related disclosures in by the external auditors and across the Group the Annual Report and Accounts compliance with the policy: Reviewed output from the risk Reviewed an accounting matters b feedback from a survey reviews which required managers update, including consideration of targeted at various and the Exco to identify risks and relevant accounting standards and stakeholders: and evaluate them before and after underlying assumptions c the Committees own mitigating controls were agreed Reviewed disclosures in the assessment and implemented Annual Report and Accounts in Considered the recommendations Reviewed the resources of the relation to internal controls, risk in the UK Corporate Governance internal audit function and management, principal risks and Code regarding the tender of the considered and approved the uncertainties and the work of the external audit contract scope of the internal audit Committee Considered and approved letters programme Received a corporate governance of representation issued to the Considered the level of alignment update including changes to the external auditors between the Companys key risks UK Corporate Governance Code, and internal audit programme the Sharman Panel and revisions to ISA 700 Considered the effectiveness of the internal auditors Reviewed matters reported to the external whistleblowing hotline and a report from the investigations department Considered and approved the structure, scope of cover and renewal terms of the Groups insurance programme Assessed the effectiveness of the Groups internal control environment Considered progress of roll-out of CURA integrated risk management software across the business 1.5 Significant issues considered by the Audit & Risk Committee After discussion with both management and the external auditor, the Committee determined that the key risks of misstatement of the Groups financial statements related to: Impairment of non-financial assets excluding inventories and deferred tax : Recoverability of the $399 million HDSA receivable: and Physical quantities of inventory excluding consumables and net realisable value.
These issues were discussed with management during the year and with the auditor at the time the Committee reviewed and agreed the auditors Group audit plan, when the auditor reviewed the half year interim financial statements in May 2013 and also at the conclusion of the audit of the financial statements.
com 60 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Audit & Risk Committee Report 1.5 Significant issues considered by the Audit & Risk Committee continued Impairment of non-financial assets excluding inventories and deferred tax As more fully explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the Groups principal non-financial assets are grouped into cash generating units CGUs for the purpose of assessing the recoverable amount.
The Group has two key CGUs, being Marikana and Akanani.
Marikana includes goodwill, and therefore is tested for impairment on an annual basis.
Akanani is an exploration and evaluation asset, and was impaired in 2012.
Any change in assumptions could lead to further impairment or a reversal of impairment.
Akanani, like Marikana, has been subject to an impairment assessment at the year-end.
In performing their impairment tests, management determined the recoverable amount of each CGU, and compared this to the carrying amount.
Management reported to the Committee the results of its impairment assessment, noting to the Committee that future cash flows for each CGU had been estimated based on the most up to date business forecasts or studies for exploration and evaluation assets and discounted using discount rates that reflected current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the assets.
Management highlighted to the Committee how they arrived at the key assumptions to estimate future cash flows for the CGUs, specifically PGM metal prices, foreign exchange rates and discount rates.
Management also brought to the attention of the Committee the sensitivity analysis to be disclosed in note 1 of the financial statements with regards to the recoverable amount of the Akanani CGU.
The Committee interrogated managements key assumptions to understand their impact on the CGUs recoverable amounts.
The Committee was satisfied that the significant assumptions used for determining the recoverable amount of non-financial assets had been appropriately scrutinised, challenged and were sufficiently robust.
The Committee was further satisfied with the impairment disclosures in the financial statements.
The auditor explained their audit procedures to test managements impairment assessment and considered the Groups disclosures on the subject.
On the basis of their audit work, the auditor considered that the carrying value of non-financial assets was materially appropriate in the context of the financial statements as a whole.
Recoverability of the $399 million HDSA receivable As detailed in note 14 to the financial statements, the Group has an amount due to it from a subsidiary of Shanduka Resources Proprietary Limited the Shanduka subsidiary amounting to $399 million at 30 September 2013.
The Impairment financial assets section of note 1 to the financial statements notes a financial asset not carried at fair value through profit or loss is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is objective evidence that it is impaired.
Management reported to the Committee that the receivable was secured on the shares in the Shanduka subsidiary, whose only asset of value was its ultimate holding in Incwala Resources Pty Limited Incwala.
Incwalas principal assets were investments in Western Platinum Limited WPL, Eastern Platinum Limited EPL and Akanani Mining Pty Limited Akanani, all subsidiaries of Lonmin Plc.
Management further reported that one of the sources of income to fund the settlement of the receivable was the dividend flow from these underlying investments, but that given the current state of the PGM industry there had not been any substantial dividend payments to Incwala in recent times.
Management also reported concern that, in the current economic environment, the value of the security could fall below its carrying amount.
On the basis of the above matters, management reported that it was likely that a loss event could have occurred.
Management reported to the Committee that an assessment had been made to determine the extent of any required impairment.
Management reported that this assessment was based on the value of the security which was primarily driven by the value of Incwalas underlying investments in WPL, EPL and Akanani.
Management reported that the same valuation models for the Marikana and Akanani CGUs as described in the Impairment of non-financial assets section above had been used as the basis for determining the value of Incwalas investments, and ultimately the value of the Shanduka subsidiary.
Management reported that the results of this analysis indicated that the security had a value of $403 million at 30 September 2013, and therefore impairment was not necessary at 30 September 2013.
Management also brought to the attention of the Committee the fact that given the valuation of the security only marginally exceeded the carrying amount of the receivable, a downward movement on the value of the security would lead to impairment.
Management further noted the sensitivity analysis included in note 21a of the financial statements.
The Committee interrogated managements procedures in arriving at the conclusion that there was a loss event.
They also scrutinised managements valuation of the underlying security.
The Committee was satisfied that a sufficiently robust process was followed to confirm the recoverability of the receivable.
On the basis of their audit work, the auditor reported no inconsistencies or misstatements that were material in the context of the financial statements as a whole.
