110 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies Reporting entity Lonmin Plc the Company is a company incorporated in the UK.
The address of the Companys registered office is 4 Grosvenor Place, London, SW1X 7YL.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the year ended 30 September 2013 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in equity accounted investments.
Basis of preparation Statement of compliance The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs and approved by the Directors on this basis.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice UK GAAP.
The parent company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 10 November 2013.
Basis of measurement The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for the following: Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Available for sale assets are measured at fair value.
Liabilities for cash settled share-based payment arrangements are measured at fair value.
Non-current assets held for sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
Going concern In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the financial statements, the Directors are required to consider whether the Group can continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The financial performance of the Group is dependent upon the wider economic environment in which the Group operates.
Factors exist which are outside the control of management which can have a significant impact on the business, specifically, volatility in the Rand US Dollar exchange rate and PGM commodity prices.
The events at Marikana in August and September 2012 necessitated a review of the strategy and capital structure of the Group.
To this end, the Lonmin Plc Board concluded that reducing capital expenditure in the near term and raising additional equity, in conjunction with a revision to bank facilities would result in the appropriate capital structure and retain the Groups flexibility as regards financial risks.
In December 2012, Lonmin Plc successfully concluded a Rights Issue which raised net proceeds of $767 million see note 31.
In conjunction with the Rights Issue, Lonmin Plc negotiated certain amendments to the terms of the Groups existing debt facilities.
The proceeds of the Rights Issue were utilised to reduce the Groups debt exposure.
The Directors have prepared cash flow and covenant forecasts for a period in excess of twelve months from the date of these financial statements and have concluded that the capital structure, after the successful Rights Issue and debt facilities amendments, provides sufficient head room to cushion against downside operational risks and minimises the risk of breaching new covenants.
As a result, the Directors believe that the Group will continue to meet its obligations as they fall due and comply with its financial covenants and accordingly have formed a judgement that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
Therefore, these financial statements do not include any adjustments that would result if the going concern basis on preparation is inappropriate.
Functional and presentation currency The consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars rounded to the nearest million, which is the functional currency of the Company and its principal operations.
Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires the Directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
Judgements that have been made in the process of applying accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements, and estimates made that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are as follows: 01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 111 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Use of estimates and judgements continued Impairment of non-financial assets In determining the recoverable amount of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, judgement is required in determining key inputs into valuation models.
The key assumptions, and the Directors approach for determining these, are described in the policy on Impairment Nonfinancial assets.
Recoverability of the $399 million HDSA receivable The Company holds a HDSA receivable at amortised cost.
The receivable is secured on shares in the HDSA borrower, whose only asset of value is its holding in Incwala Resources Pty Limited Incwala.
Incwalas principal assets are investments in Western Platinum Limited WPL, Eastern Platinum Limited EPL and Akanani Mining Pty Limited Akanani, all subsidiaries of Lonmin Plc.
One of the sources of income to fund the settlement of the receivable is the dividend flow from these underlying investments.
Given the current state of the PGM industry there have not been any substantial dividend payments to Incwala in recent times.
The Directors are also concerned that, in the current economic environment, the value of the security may have fallen below the carrying amount of the receivable.
There is therefore a risk that the amount outstanding will not be repaid in 2015.
As described in the policy on Impairment financial assets, an assessment is made at each reporting period to determine whether there is objective evidence that the receivable is impaired.
This assessment for indicators of a loss event, involves a high degree of judgement.
Given the above matters, the Directors have determined that it is likely that a loss event may have occurred.
Accordingly an assessment has been performed to determine the extent of impairment, if any.
This assessment has been made based on the value of the security which is primarily driven by the value of Incwalas underlying investments in WPL, EPL and Akanani.
The same valuation models for the Marikana and Akanani CGUs that were prepared to assess Impairment of non-financial assets above have been used as the basis for determining the value of Incwalas investments.
Thus similar judgements apply around the determination of key assumptions in those valuation models.
The results of this assessment as well as sensitivities are described in note 21a.
Physical quantities of inventory excluding consumables Inventory is held in a wide variety of forms across the value chain reflecting the stage of refinement.
Prior to production as final metal the inventory is always contained within a carrier material.
As such inventory is typically sampled and assays taken to determine the metal content and how this is split by metal.
Measurement and sampling accuracy can vary quite significantly depending on the nature of the vessels and the state of the material.
An allowance for estimation uncertainty is applied to the various categories of inventory and is dependent on the degree to which the nature and state of material allows for accurate measurement and sampling.
Judgement, therefore, is applied in arriving at appropriate quantities of inventory to recognise at each reporting date.
New standards and amendments in the year The following revised IFRS has been adopted in these financial statements.
The application of this IFRS has not had any material impact on the amounts reported for the current and prior years: IAS 1 Amendments to Presentation of Financial Statements effective 1 July 2012 requires that an entity present separately the items of Other Comprehensive Income that may be reclassified to the income statement in future from those that would never be reclassified to the income statement.
There were no other new standards, interpretations or amendments to standards issued and effective for the year which materially impacted the Groups financial statements.
Significant accounting policies The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group financial statements, and have been applied consistently by Group entities.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable are taken into account.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition at which date control commences or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate, at which date control ceases.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
com 112 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation continued Associates An associate is an entity in which the Group has an equity interest and over which it has the ability to exercise significant influence but not control over the financial and operating policies.
Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method and are initially measured at cost.
The Groups investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any impairment losses.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the income and expenses and equity movements of any associates.
Where an associate owns an equity interest in a Group entity an adjustment is made to the equity accounting and the non-controlling interest to avoid double counting.
Any difference between the adjustment to the investment in the associate and non-controlling interest is taken directly to equity.
Where the adjustment results in net liabilities in the associate, as the Group has no obligation to fund these liabilities, they are not recognised.
Joint ventures JVs The Group undertakes a number of business activities through JVs.
JVs are established through contractual arrangements which result in the strategic, financial and operating policies of the venture being jointly controlled.
Such JVs are treated as jointly controlled entities and are accounted for using the equity method.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-Group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates and JVs are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the investee.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currencies of the Group entities using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the financial reporting date are retranslated into the functional currency at the rates of exchange ruling at the financial reporting date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the historic rate.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in the income statement, except for differences arising on the retranslation of available for sale financial assets and equity accounted investments which are recognised directly in equity.
Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
Revenue Revenue is derived from the sale of metal inventories and is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, after deducting discounts, volume rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes.
A sale is recognised when: the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer this is generally when title and insurance risk have passed to the customer, and the goods have been delivered to a contractually agreed location : recovery of the consideration is probable: the associated costs and possible return of goods can be estimated reliably: there is no continuing management involvement with the goods, and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
In certain circumstances, for example sometimes in the sale of part-processed material, metal prices at the point of sale may be provisional.
The impact of changes in metal prices to the point of settlement are reflected through revenue and receivables.
All third party metal sales are recognised as revenue.
The Group does not credit capitalised development costs with income arising from production in development phases but rather recognises such metal as inventory see Inventories policy.
Finance income and expenses Finance income comprises interest on funds invested including available for sale financial assets, dividend income, gains on the disposal of available for sale financial assets net of costs of disposal and gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the Groups rights to receive payment have been established.
Finance expenses comprise interest expense on borrowings, bank fees including bank fees which are capitalised and amortised over the life of the facility, unwinding of discount on provisions and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 113 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Finance income and expenses continued All borrowing costs are recognised in the Income Statement using the effective interest method except for borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the acquisition, or construction of an asset.
Such costs are capitalised to property, plant and equipment or intangible assets during the period of construction or development provided that future economic benefit is considered probable.
Capitalised interest is shown as interest paid in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
The Companys accounting policies in respect of the hybrid financial instrument issued to it by Shanduka, its BEE partner, are detailed in the financial instruments section.
Expenditure Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received.
Research and development Research expenditure is charged to the Income Statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure which meets the recognition criteria for an intangible asset under IAS 38 Intangible Assets, is capitalised and then amortised over the useful economic life of the developed asset, otherwise it is charged to the income statement as incurred.
Borrowing costs related to the development of qualifying assets are capitalised.
Capitalised development expenditure is recognised at cost, and subsequently carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, where it can be demonstrated that the expenditure will result in completion of an asset which, when available for use or sale, will result in future economic benefit arising for the Group.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs incurred on the exploration for and evaluation of potential mineral reserves and includes costs relating to the following: acquisition of exploration rights: conducting geological studies: exploratory drilling and sampling and evaluating the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting a mineral resource as well as capitalised interest.
Expenditure incurred on activities that precede exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources, being all expenditure incurred prior to securing the legal rights to explore an area, is expensed immediately.
Expenditure towards in-house exploration for and evaluation of potential mineral reserves for each area of interest is expensed until it is considered probable that future economic benefit will arise through further exploration and subsequent development of the area of interest or, alternatively, by its sale.
Pre-feasibility studies involve the review of one or more potential development options with the aim of moving forward to the more detailed feasibility study stage.
Expenditure related to such studies is expensed in full as there is insufficient certainty that future economic benefit will be generated at this stage of a project.
Expenditure relating to feasibility studies which support the technical feasibility and commercial viability of an area is capitalised under exploration and evaluation assets.
Where a feasibility study reaches a favourable conclusion, accumulated exploration and evaluation costs are transferred to mineral rights within intangibles or capital work in progress within property, plant and equipment as appropriate on commencement of the development phase of the related project.
Where the feasibility study reaches an adverse conclusion, any previously capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is written off immediately.
Expenditure on purchased exploration and evaluation assets is capitalised at fair value at the time of purchase.
Subsequent expenditure may be capitalised at cost.
Carrying values are subject to impairment reviews as per the Groups policy.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure is classified as property, plant and equipment or intangible depending on the nature of the expenditure.
Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is a class of assets which are not available for use.
Therefore amortisation is not provided on such assets.
Mineral mining rights, which are obtained following the completion of a feasibility study, are not included within exploration and evaluation expenditure.
They are capitalised at cost under IAS 38 Intangible Assets and are amortised on a units of production basis over the life of the mine.
Share-based payments From the grant date the fair value of options granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the shares.
The fair value of the amount payable to employees in respect of share appreciation rights, which are settled in cash, is recognised as an expense, with a corresponding increase in liabilities, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment.
The liability is remeasured at each reporting date and at settlement date.
Any changes in the fair value of the liability are recognised as a personnel expense in the income statement.
com 114 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Share-based payments continued The fair value of each option or share appreciation right is determined using either a Black-Scholes option pricing model or a Monte Carlo projection model, depending on the type of the award.
Market related performance conditions are reflected in the fair value of the share.
Non-market related performance conditions are allowed for using a separate assumption about the number of awards expected to vest: the final charge made reflects the numbers actually vested on the basis that non-market conditions are met.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits The Group operates a number of defined contribution schemes in accordance with local regulations.
A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate legal entity and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement when they are due.
Taxation Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax to be paid or recovered on the taxable income for the year, using the tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date during the periods being reported upon, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax as directed by IAS 12 Income Taxes is recognised in respect of certain temporary differences identified at the financial reporting date.
Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amount of the Groups assets and liabilities and their tax base.
A deferred tax liability is recognised in a business combination in respect of any identified intangible asset representing the difference between the fair value of the acquired asset and its tax base.
Recognition of a deferred tax liability in respect of such a difference gives rise to a corresponding increase in goodwill recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Deferred tax liabilities are offset against deferred tax assets within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax group where the entities have the right to settle current tax liabilities net.
Any remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there will be suitable taxable profits, within the same jurisdiction, in the foreseeable future against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising in relation to investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Business combinations and goodwill Subject to the transitional relief in IFRS 1, all business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
Acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010 For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: the fair value of the consideration transferred: plus the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree: plus the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree: less the net recognised amount generally fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
On a  basis, the Group elects to measure non-controlling interests either at its fair value or at its proportionate interest in the recognised amount of the identifiable net assets of the acquiree at the acquisition date.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 115 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Business combinations and goodwill continued Acquisitions between 1 October 2004 and 1 January 2010 For acquisitions between 1 October 2004 and 1 January 2010, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Groups interest in the recognised amount generally fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
When the excess was negative, a bargain purchase gain was recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurred in connection with business combinations were capitalised as part of the cost of the acquisition.
Acquisitions prior to 1 October 2004 date of transition to IFRSs IFRS 1 grants certain exemptions from the full requirements of Adopted IFRSs in the transition period.
The Group and Company elected not to restate business combinations that took place prior to 1 October 2004.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 October 2004, goodwill is included at 1 October 2004 on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under UK GAAP which was broadly comparable save that only separable intangibles were recognised and goodwill was amortised.
On transition amortisation of goodwill ceased as required by IFRS 1.
Acquisitions and disposals of non-controlling interests Acquisitions and disposals of non-controlling interests that do not result in a change of control are accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and therefore no goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions.
The adjustments to non-controlling interests are based on a proportionate amount of the net assets of the subsidiary.
Any difference between the price paid or received and the amount by which non-controlling interests are adjusted is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the parent.
Prior to the adoption of IAS 27 2008, goodwill was recognised on the acquisition of non-controlling interests in a subsidiary, which represented the excess of the cost of the additional investment over the carrying amount of the interest in the net assets acquired at the date of the transaction.
Goodwill Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units and is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
In respect of equity accounted investees, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment in the investee.
Intangible assets Intangible assets, other than goodwill, acquired by the Group have finite useful lives and are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Where amortisation is charged on these assets, the expense is taken to the income statement through operating costs.
Amortisation of mineral rights is provided on a units of production basis over the remaining life of mine to residual value 20 to 40 years.
All other intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives subject to a maximum of 20 years and are tested for impairment at each reporting date when there is an indication of a possible impairment.
Property, plant and equipment Recognition Property, plant and equipment is included in the statement of financial position at cost and subsequently less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Costs include expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials and direct labour, any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to a working condition for its intended use, and any other costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the site on which they are located.
Cost may also include transfers from equity of any gain or loss on qualifying cash flow hedges of foreign currency purchases of property, plant and equipment.
Borrowing costs incurred on the acquisition or construction of qualifying assets are capitalised to the cost of the asset.
Gains and losses on disposals of an item of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds on disposal with the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and are recognised net in the income statement.
com 116 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment continued Componentisation When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items major components of property, plant and equipment.
The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised upon replacement.
The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Capital work in progress Development costs are capitalised and transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment when available for use.
Capitalised development costs include expenditure incurred to develop new operations and to expand existing capacity.
Costs include interest capitalised during the period up to the level that the qualifying assets permit.
Depreciation Depreciation is provided on a straight line or units of production basis as appropriate over their expected useful lives or the remaining life of mine, if shorter, to residual value.
The life of mine is based on proven and probable reserves.
The expected useful lives of the major categories of property, plant and equipment are as follows: Method Rate Shafts and underground Units of production 2.5% 5.0% per annum 20 40 years Metallurgical Straight line 2.5% 7.1% per annum 14 40 years Infrastructure Straight line 2.5% 2.9% per annum 35 40 years Other plant and equipment Straight line 2.5% 50.0% per annum 2 40 years No depreciation is provided on surface mining land which has a continuing value and capital work in progress.
Residual values and useful lives are re-assessed annually and if necessary changes are accounted for prospectively.
Impairment Non-financial assets excluding inventories and deferred tax The Groups principal non-financial assets excluding inventories and deferred tax assets are property, plant and equipment, intangibles and goodwill associated with mining and processing activities.
For the purpose of assessing the recoverable amount, these assets are grouped into cash generating units CGUs.
The Groups two key CGUs are: i Marikana, which includes Western Platinum Limited WPL and Eastern Platinum Limited EPL.
The Marikana CGU mines and processes substantially all of the ore produced by the Group: and ii Akanani Mining Proprietary Limited, an exploration and evaluation asset located on the Northern Limb of the Bushveld Complex in South Africa.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
At each financial reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that those assets are impaired.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the assets is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment if any.
Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are tested for impairment annually regardless of whether an indication of impairment exists.
Items of property, plant and equipment that are not in use are reviewed annually for impairment on a fair value less costs to sell basis.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense.
Value in use In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows, based on the most up to date business forecasts or studies for exploration and evaluation assets, are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the assets for which estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 117 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Impairment Non-financial assets excluding inventories and deferred tax continued The key assumptions contained within the business forecasts and managements approach to determine appropriate values are set out below: Key Assumption Management Approach PGM prices Projections are determined through a combination of the views of the Directors, market estimates and forecasts and other sector information.
The Platinum price is projected to be in the range of $1,600 to $2,100 per ounce in real terms over the life of the mine.
Palladium and Rhodium prices are expected to range between $750 and $1,200 and $1,000 and $2,000 respectively per ounce in real terms over the same period.
Production volume Projections are based on the capacity and expected operational capabilities of the mines, the grade of the ore, and the efficiencies of processing and refining operations.
Production costs Projections are based on current cost adjusted for expected cost changes as well as giving consideration to specific issues such as the difficulty in mining particular sections of the reef and the mining method employed.
Capital expenditure requirements Projections are based on the operational plan, which sets out the long-term plan of the business and is approved by the Board.
Foreign currency exchange rates Spot rates as at the end of the reporting period are applied.
Reserves and resources of the CGU Projections are determined through surveys performed by Competent Persons and the views of the Directors of the Company.
Management uses past experience and assessment of future conditions, together with external sources of information in order to assign values to the key assumptions.
Management has projected cash flows over the life of the relevant mining operation which is significantly greater than 5 years.
For the Marikana CGU a life of mine spanning until 2056 was applied.
For the Akanani CGU the life of mine spans until 2049.
Projecting cash flows over a period longer than 5 years is in line with industry practice and is supported by the Groups history of the resources expected to be found being proven to exist.
Management does not apply a growth rate because a detailed life of mine plan is used to forecast future production volumes.
For each CGU a risk-adjusted pre-tax discount rate is used for impairment testing.
The key factors affecting the risk premium applied are the relevant stage of the development of the asset in the CGU extensions to existing operations having significantly lower risk than evaluation projects for example, the level of knowledge and consistency of the ore body and sovereign risk.
The rate applied in the Marikana CGU for 2013 was 11.8% real 2012 11.6% real.
The rate applied for the exploration and evaluation asset in the Akanani CGU for 2013 was 14.8% nominal 2012 14.3% nominal.
In preparing the financial statements, management has considered whether a reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which management has based its determination of the recoverable amounts of the CGUs would cause the units carrying amounts to exceed their recoverable amounts.
For the Marikana CGU management do not believe that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would lead to impairment.
The Akanani CGU was impaired in 2012, and as such a change to any of the key assumptions would lead to further impairment or reversal of impairment.
The approximate effects on the carrying amount of the Akanani CGU of movements in three key assumptions would be as follows: Assumption Movement in assumption Approximate impact on recoverable amount Metal prices -10% -$42m ZAR:USD exchange rate -10% -$69m Discount rate - 100 basis points -$61m Fair value less costs to sell Fair value less costs to sell has been determined by reference to the best information available to reflect the amount that the Group could receive for the CGU in an arms length transaction.
When comparable market transactions or public valuations of similar assets exist these are used as a source of evidence.
However, the Group believes that mining CGUs tend to be unique and have their value determined largely by the nature of the underlying ore body.
The fair value therefore is typically determined by calculating the value of the CGU using an appropriate valuation methodology such as calculating the post-tax net present value using a discounted cash flow forecast as described in value in use.
Exploration and evaluation assets Under IFRS 6 exploration and evaluation assets are assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances suggest that the carrying amount of the assets may exceed their recoverable amount.
When this occurs, any impairment loss is immediately charged to the income statement.
com 118 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Impairment Non-financial assets excluding inventories and deferred tax continued Akanani exploration and evaluation asset The Akanani CGU is currently at pre-feasibility study level and value in use calculations for the CGU are calculated using cash flows derived from the results of the latest study.
Given the Akanani CGU is at the exploration and evaluation stage it is reasonably possible that the completion of that stage will result in changes to indicated and inferred reserves of PGM ounces and a further refinement of capital and operating expenses.
In addition the quantity of resources is also sensitive to the longterm metal prices.
Adverse changes in reserves and resources, capital and operating expenses, and long-term metal prices might cause the recoverable amount to fall below the carrying amount of the CGU.
As mentioned above, the Akanani CGU was impaired in 2012, and given any reasonably possible change in assumptions could have an impact on the carrying amount, a formal impairment assessment was performed again in 2013.
Goodwill The recoverable amount of goodwill, as allocated to relevant CGUs, has been tested for impairment annually, or when such events or changes in circumstances indicate that it may be impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Impairment losses within a CGU are allocated first to goodwill and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
Reversal of impairment At each financial reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that a previously recognised impairment loss has reversed.
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is only reversed to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation and amortisation, had the impairment not been made.
A reversal of impairment is recognised as income immediately except for previously impaired goodwill which is never reversed.
Impairment financial assets including receivables A financial asset not carried at fair value through profit or loss is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is objective evidence that it is impaired.
A financial asset is impaired if objective evidence indicates that a loss event has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset, and that the loss event had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset that can be estimated reliably.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
Interest on the impaired asset continues to be recognised through the unwinding of the discount.
When a subsequent event causes the amount of impairment loss to decrease, the decrease in impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss.
Leases Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in property, plant and equipment at the lower of the present value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset as determined at the inception of the lease.
The obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included within bank loans and other borrowings, with the amount payable within twelve months included in bank overdrafts and loans within current liabilities.
The interest element of the rental obligation is allocated to accounting periods during the lease term to reflect the constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each accounting period.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis.
Assets held for sale When an assets carrying value will be recovered principally through a sale transaction, to take place within twelve months of the financial reporting date, rather than through continuing use it is classified as held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current assets classified as held for sale.
Immediately prior to sale the assets are remeasured in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost which includes the applicable proportion of production overheads and net realisable value.
PGMs inventory is valued by allocating costs, based on the joint cost of production, apportioned according to the relative sales value of each of the PGMs produced.
By-product metals are valued at the incremental cost of production from the point of split off from the PGM processing stream.
In the process of initially developing the ore reserve it is common that metal is produced, although not at normal operating levels.
Development is split into different phases according to the mining method used with differing levels of production expected in each phase.
The Group recognises the metal produced in each development phase in inventory with an appropriate proportion of cost as operating costs.
This allocation is calculated by reference to the produced volumes in relation to the total volumes expected from the development.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 119 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts as the bank overdraft is repayable on demand and forms an integral part of the Groups cash management.
Rehabilitation costs Rehabilitation costs are provided in full based on estimates of the future costs to be incurred, calculated on a discounted basis.
As the provision is recognised, it is either capitalised as part of the cost of the related mine or written off to the income statement if utilised within one year.
Where costs are capitalised the impact of such costs on the income statement is spread over the life of mine through the accretion of the discount of the provision and the depreciation over a units of production basis of the increased costs of the mining assets.
Provisions Provision is made when a present or legal obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
Financial instruments The Groups principal financial instruments other than derivatives comprise bank loans, available for sale financial assets, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, trade and other payables and short-term deposits.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value plus, for instruments not at fair value through the income statement, any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition non-derivative financial instruments are measured as described below.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
These also comprise bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand, for the purpose of the cash flow statement only.
Investments are classified into loans and receivables, held-to-maturity and available for sale.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the investments were acquired, the nature of the investments and whether the investment is quoted or not.
The classification of investments is determined at initial recognition.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables and investments classified as held-to-maturity are carried at amortised cost and gains or losses are recognised in the income statement when the investments are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
The Company is the holder of a financial instrument issued by its BEE partner, Shanduka.
The loan component of the hybrid instrument was recognised initially at fair value and thereafter will be held at amortised cost.
The loan is denominated in Sterling.
The financial instrument was translated to preference shares on 31 March 2011.
The related dividends accumulate on a month to month basis based on the same rates as the interest rates of the original financial instrument.
Available for sale financial assets The Groups investments in equity securities and certain debt securities are classified as available for sale financial assets.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at fair value and any changes are recognised directly in equity except for impairment losses and, in the case of monetary items, foreign exchange gains and losses.
When an investment is written off or sold, any cumulative gains or losses in equity are recycled into the income statement.
Fair value is determined by using the market price at the financial reporting date where this is available.
Where market price is not available the Directors best estimates of market value are used.
Bank loans Bank loans are recorded at amortised cost, net of transaction costs incurred, and are adjusted to amortise transaction costs over the term of the loan.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are principally used by the Group to manage exposure to market risks from treasury operations and commodity price risks on by-products.
The principal derivative instruments used are foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and forward price agreements on by-products.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
com 120 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Financial instruments continued Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised in the statement of financial position at fair value and then remeasured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
Attributable costs are recognised in profit or loss when incurred.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Hedging derivatives are classified on inception as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges.
On initial designation of the derivative as the hedging instrument, the Group formally documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged item, including the risk management objectives and strategy in undertaking the hedge transaction and the hedged risk, together with the methods that will be used to assess the effectiveness of the hedging relationship.
The Group makes an assessment, both at the inception of the hedge relationship as well as on an ongoing basis, of whether the hedging instruments are expected to be highly effective in offsetting the changes in fair value or cash flows of the respective hedged items attributable to the hedged risk, and whether the actual results of each hedge are within a range of 80 125%.
For a cash flow hedge of a forecast transaction, the transaction should be highly probable to occur and should present an exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect reported profit or loss.
When a derivative is designated as the hedging instrument in a hedge of the variability in cash flows attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction that could affect profit or loss, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the hedging reserve in equity.
Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The fair value gains and losses accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the same period that the hedged item affects profit or loss.
If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the designation is revoked, then hedge accounting is revoked prospectively.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument at initial recognition is the transaction price, for example, the fair value of the consideration given or received, unless the fair value of that instrument is evidenced by comparison with other observable current market transactions in the same instrument for example without modification or repackaging or based on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets.
When transaction price provides the best evidence of fair value at initial recognition, the financial instrument is initially measured at the transaction price and any difference between this price and the value initially obtained from a valuation model is subsequently recognised in profit or loss on a straight line basis over the life of the instrument but not later than when the valuation is supported wholly by observable market data or the transaction is closed out.
Segmental reporting The core principle of IFRS 8 Operating Segments is that an entity shall disclose information to enable users to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business activities in which it engages and the economic environments in which it operates.
On this basis Lonmin has three reportable operating segments being: PGM Operations which comprise operational mines and processing facilities which are located in South Africa.
Evaluation which relates to the Akanani asset which is located in South Africa and is in the evaluation stage.
Exploration this essentially relates to the costs of exploration projects which have the objective of identifying PGM deposits which can be commercially realised and which can occur anywhere in the world.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets other than goodwill, and any capitalised interest.
EU endorsed IFRS not yet applied by the Group The following new IFRS have been issued, but are not effective for Lonmin Plc for the financial year ended 30 September 2013: Effective for Lonmin Plc for the period beginning 1 October 2013: Annual Improvements to IFRS 2009-2011 cycle IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine Effective for Lonmin Plc for periods beginning 1 October 2014: Transition Guidance Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IAS 27 2011 Separate Financial Statements Amendments to IAS 28 2008 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures The Group does not currently intend to early adopt these IFRS.
The Group already applies the principals of IFRIC 20, and as such no impact is expected from adoption of this standard.
The Group is yet to finalise its assessment of the impact of adopting the other new IFRS.
