01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Corporate Governance Report Compliance statement As noted in the Chairmans introduction, Lonmin is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council and available on their website, www.
The edition of the Code published in September 2012 applied throughout our financial year ending 30 September 2013, but the Financial Conduct Authority has yet to change the Listing Rules and therefore requires that certain compliance statements are made in relation to the predecessor edition of the Code, issued in June 2010.
This report addresses the requirements of both editions of the Code.
During the year to 30 September 2013 FY2013 the Company has in all respects complied with the provisions of both editions of the Code, save in relation to the period 9 to 30 September 2013 and through to 1 November 2013 during which time less than half the Board excluding the Chairman were independent Non-executive Directors.
On 9 October 2013 we announced the appointment of an additional independent Non-executive Director, Brian Beamish, with effect from 1 November 2013 which restores compliance with the recommendations of the Code.
Almost all of the Groups business is based in South Africa, where the prevailing governance code is the King Report on Governance for South Africa 2009, more commonly known as King III, available from www.
While the Company and its subsidiaries are not subject to King III the Board has identified certain provisions which it feels are of benefit to the Companys overall governance framework, primarily in relation to ethics and sustainability, and which we follow on a voluntary basis.
Role and effectiveness of the Board The Company is led and controlled by a Board of Directors, which is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
It does so by creating and preserving value, and has as its foremost principle acting in the interests of shareholders.
How the Board of Directors operates 1.1 The role of the Board The Board is the custodian of the Companys strategic aims, vision and values.
It provides entrepreneurial leadership to management within a framework of prudent controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed appropriately.
It assesses whether the necessary financial and human resources are, and will continue to be, in place to enable the Company to meet its objectives and ensure that it takes full account of safety, environmental and social factors.
The graphic below shows the iterative nature of the Boards role: Monitor and understand the risk environment in which the Company operates Develop the business model Report to shareholders on and provide entrepreneurial business performance, and leadership ascertain their views Appoint the CEO Oversee reporting to other Consider and approve strategy, stakeholders Monitor the delivery of strategy business plans and budgets Challenge or support management as necessary Oversee governance environment, includin g through oversight delegated to Board Committees Oversee the internal control framework The schedule of matters reserved to the Board, last reviewed in January 2012 and available on the Companys website, sets out the Boards ultimate responsibility for the Groups strategy, operations and risks, and reserves to the Board power to approve a range of decisions of a significant nature.
While it is invidious to single out aspects of these responsibilities as being of greater importance than others, determining the Companys risk appetite which we define as the risks we actively seek or accept in pursuit of our long-term objectives, deciding the Companys business strategy, and then determining the risk tolerance which we define as the limit of risk we are prepared to face in pursuit of those long-term objectives are clearly crucial.
Naturally, these must be supported by sound risk management and internal control systems, the design and maintenance of which is also the responsibility of the Board.
com 44 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Corporate Governance Report 1.
How the Board of Directors operates continued 1.1 The role of the Board continued In the early part of FY2013 the Board set a number of objectives for itself, under three headings optimising shareholder value operational excellence, licence to operate and strategic imperatives, people and governance.
These objectives were then used to drive the agenda-setting process for each scheduled meeting of the Board to ensure that time was focussed on these key areas.
1.2 Key Board roles The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer is set out in writing and is summarised below, together with the primary responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director and Non-executive Directors, providing a system of checks and balances in which no individual has unfettered decision making power.
Chairman Roger Phillimore based in the United Kingdom Chief Executive Officer Ben Magara based in South Africa Lead and manage the Board Provide leadership to the executive team in running the business Lead the Boards consideration of strategy Develop proposals for the Board to consider in all areas reserved for its judgement, particularly strategy Promote the highest standards of corporate governance Ensure effective internal controls and risk management systems are in place Ensure effective communication with shareholders Implement agreed strategy and all Board approved actions The Chairman is in regular contact with the CEO to discuss current material matters, and the Chairman also visits the operations outside the Board meeting schedule to meet a range of senior executives, managers and external stakeholders.
Senior Independent Director Jim Sutcliffe Non-executive Directors Act as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary Provide input to, review proposals for and then approve strategy Be available to shareholders if they have concerns which Scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed contact with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve, or where such contact would be inappropriate Provide a sounding board for Chairman Review the integrity of financial information and determine whether internal controls and systems of risk management are robust Determine appropriate levels of remuneration of Executive Directors, be involved in the appointment and, where necessary, the removal of Executive Directors and monitor succession planning Detailed knowledge of South Africa, the mining industry, the PGM business and Lonmins operations is crucial to the Boards ability to lead the Company.
On appointment each Director is provided with a tailored induction, and they are expected to develop and refresh their knowledge and skills on an on-going basis.
The Company supports this by organising site visits and working sessions with a wide range of operational managers and external experts throughout the year and the Chairman agrees with each Director their training and development needs as and when required.
The Non-executive Directors have regular opportunities to meet members of the Exco see section 8 below and the broader management team both at these working sessions and at social occasions.
At the end of every Board meeting the Chairman holds a discussion with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present followed by a meeting of the independent Non-executive Directors.
The Directors also meet, without the Chairman being present, under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director at least once in each year.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Corporate Governance Report 1.
How the Board of Directors operates continued 1.3 Appointments to the Board The Companys Articles of Association empower the Board to appoint new Directors.
To ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for appointing new Directors to the Board, a Nomination Committee comprising the independent Non-executive Directors has been created, whose work is described in section 5 of this report.
In order for any board to discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively, it must comprise the right blend of individuals, whose skills and experience were gained in a diverse range of backgrounds.
Above all, the Directors must exhibit independence of mind, integrity and the courage to challenge constructively when appropriate.
Appointments are therefore made on personal merit and against objective criteria.
In the case of candidates for non-executive directorships, care is taken to ascertain that they have sufficient time to fulfil their Board and, where relevant, Committee responsibilities.
As part of this process, candidates disclose all other time commitments and, on appointment, undertake to inform the Board of any changes.
The Non-executive Directors letters of appointment are available for public inspection and the generic template is provided on the Companys website.
Shanduka Group, the ultimate parent of our BEE partner Incwala Resources, has a contractual right to nominate one Director for membership of the Companys Board, subject to the subsequent recommendation of that individual by the Nomination Committee.
No other party has any legal right to nominate Directors to the Board.
Once appointed, all Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election by shareholders on an annual basis.
As the current composition of the Board and Exco demonstrates, Lonmin strongly supports the benefits of diversity, both in the boardroom and in the business.
Our principal challenge is in meeting the transformation and employment equity targets we face in South Africa.
In order to prioritise these, we have decided not to impose further, gender-based targets upon ourselves, as these could create an unhelpful constraint on future Board appointments.
1.4 The Board of Directors As at the date of this report, the Board has thirteen members: the Chairman, ten Non-executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
The names of the Directors serving at the end of FY2013 and their biographical details are set out on pages 36 and 37.
All Directors served throughout that year, save as noted below: Ian Farmer as a result of illness, retired as CEO and a Director with effect from 31 December 2012 Cyril Ramaphosa retired as a Non-executive Director of the Company on 31 January 2013 following his election as Deputy President of South Africas governing political party, the African National Congress Phuti Mahanyele appointed as a Non-executive Director on 2 April 2013, following nomination by Shanduka Group see 1.3 above Ben Magara appointed as a Director and CEO 1 July 2013 Gary Nagle appointed as a Non-executive Director on 9 September 2013 Paul Smith appointed as a Non-executive Director on 9 September 2013 In addition, Brian Beamish was appointed as a Non-executive Director with effect from 1 November 2013.
1.5 Balance and independence of the Board members The Board believes that it and its Committees have an appropriate composition to discharge their duties effectively and to manage succession issues.
However, a Board with thirteen members is very large, especially in the context of a business of this size and complexity, however, the Board believes this should not hinder its effectiveness.
One determining factor in the Boards ability to fulfil its remit is the blend of individuals and their personal qualities, and ensuring that no individual or small group dominates decision-making.
The Board keeps its membership, and that of its Committees, under review to ensure that an acceptable balance is maintained, and that the collective skills and experience of its members continue to be refreshed.
It is satisfied that all Directors have sufficient time to devote to their roles and that undue reliance is not placed on any individual.
The Board determines whether Non-Executive Directors are independent.
Mahomed Seedat was formerly the Companys Chief Operating Officer and provides consultancy services to the Company, and is not regarded as independent.
As noted above, Phuti Mahanyele was nominated to the Board by Shanduka and the Board does not regard her independent.
Gary Nagle and Paul Smith are senior employees of, and were nominated by, Glencore Xstrata which owns 24.5% of the Companys shares.
As a result the Board does not regard either as independent.
The Board considers the six other Non-executive Directors serving at the date of this report to be independent and is confident that they are of sufficient calibre and number that their views can carry sufficient weight in the Boards deliberations.
com 46 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Corporate Governance Report 1.
How the Board of Directors operates continued 1.5 Balance and independence of the Board members continued The experience, professional backgrounds, international diversity and independence of the current eleven Non-executive Directors can be summarised as follows: Industry sector experience Professional background 1 2 3 1 3 9 3 Natural resources Management Actuarial Financial services Mining Engineering Legal Accounting Current country of primary residence Independence 1 5 1 5 4 6 United Kingdom Independent South Africa Non-independent Spain Switzerland A number of the Non-executive Directors have lived and worked in countries other than those in which they currently reside, and the vast majority have strong links with South Africa as evidenced in the biographical details on pages 36 and 37.
1.6 How we assess and refresh the Board and its Committees There are three ways in which we make sure that the Directors continue to provide suitable leadership and direction to the Company: performance evaluation, succession planning and annual re-election by shareholders.
Performance evaluation The Board believes that annual evaluations are helpful and provide a valuable opportunity for continuous improvement.
However, given the circumstances at the time the Board judged that it was inappropriate to carry out an evaluation in FY2012.
For this reason, there are no brought forward actions on which to comment.
An  review was already scheduled for FY2013 covering the Board, its Committees and individual Directors, including the Chairman.
As in 2010, the facilitator was Sheena Crane, an independent practitioner with no other connection to the Company.
Her review took the form of structured interviews with Directors, focussed on the Boards composition, formulation and delivery of strategy, risk identification and mitigation and individual performance and contribution.
Members of the Executive Committee, the Company Secretary, the Assistant Company Secretary and the Senior Statutory Auditor were also interviewed.
The feedback from the evaluation was reviewed by the Chairman or, in relation to the Chairman, by the Senior Independent Director and the principal findings and recommendations presented to the Board in November 2013.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Corporate Governance Report 1.
How the Board of Directors operates continued 1.6 How we assess and refresh the Board and its Committees continued The review helped identify the following focus areas for the Board in FY2014: Area Action Strategy Identify and evaluate strategic options Set hard measurable outcomes for the transformation programme and drive an increased pace of delivery by management Operational excellence Improve operational excellence further, and ensure that cultural and environmental factors are taken fully into account Risk Undertake a comprehensive review of the top priority risks and mitigation plans, and give more attention to second tier risks People Further develop executive and Board succession planning, in support of the CEO At the November 2013 meeting the Board also reviewed an assessment of its performance against its FY2013 objectives see 1.1 above as a further means of checking its effectiveness.
In general, material progress had been made and there were no fundamental shortcomings.
Succession planning The Board is ultimately responsible for succession planning for directorships and key management roles.
This requires a programme of performance and talent assessment, to ensure that able successors for key roles are identified and then provided with suitable opportunities through agreed career and personal development plans.
It is crucial that we remunerate our most talented people fairly and properly, such that they are more likely to stay in our employment.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the status of our succession planning and also how the processes for recruitment and selection support this programme, and our employment equity objectives.
That Committees views were summarised to the Board.
Re-election of Directors All Directors will retire from the Board at the Companys AGM in January 2014 and, save for David Munro and Mahomed Seedat, each wishes to seek re-election.
The Nomination Committee has conducted a formal performance evaluation of each Non-executive Director seeking re-election and concluded that their performance continues to be effective and that they demonstrate commitment to the role.
The Committee is also satisfied that the backgrounds, skills, experience and knowledge of the Company of the continuing Directors collectively enables the Board and its Committees to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
We believe that sufficient biographical and other information on those Directors seeking re-election is provided in this Annual Report and Accounts and the AGM Circular to enable shareholders to make an informed decision.
1.7 Board meetings The Directors met fourteen times during the year, of which six were scheduled meetings.
The other eight meetings were called at short notice and did not necessarily require full attendance and related principally to the 2012 Rights Issue, or otherwise to ad-hoc events or granting formal approvals.
As in prior years, the Board visited the operations in South Africa twice during the year.
Although we no longer hold formal board meetings in South Africa, this provides a useful opportunity to investigate operational and especially transformation issues in depth and to meet members of the Exco and other managers.
In addition to their meeting commitments, the Non-executive Directors also make themselves available to management whenever required and there is regular contact outside the Board meeting schedule.
Attendance at Board meetings during each Directors period of service in FY2013 is set out in the table below.
Scheduled Extra Director meetings meetings Ian Farmer retired from the Board 31 December 2012 1 of 1 6 of 6 Len Konar 6 of 6 7 of 8 Jonathan Leslie 6 of 6 8 of 8 Ben Magara appointed 1 July 2013 2 of 2 1 of 1 Phuti Mahanyele appointed 2 April 2013 2 of 3 1 of 1 David Munro 6 of 6 6 of 8 Gary Nagle appointed 9 September 2013 1 of 1 Roger Phillimore 6 of 6 8 of 8 Cyril Ramaphosa retired from the Board 31 January 2013 1 of 2 4 of 7 Simon Scott 6 of 6 8 of 8 Mahomed Seedat 6 of 6 8 of 8 Karen fide Segundo 6 of 6 7 of 8 Paul Smith appointed 9 September 2013 1 of 1 Jim Sutcliffe 6 of 6 8 of 8 When a Director is unable to participate in a meeting either in person or remotely, the Chairman will solicit their views on key items of business ahead of time, in order that these can be presented at the meeting and influence the debate.
com 48 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Corporate Governance Report 1.
How the Board of Directors operates continued 1.8 Board Committees, and how they support the Board To fulfil its role in the time available, the Board must delegate some of its duties and powers to committees.
As well as the committees recommended in the Code, the Board has established two other Committees to deal with specific business needs, the Safety & Sustainability and Transformation Committees.
Each Committee and its members are provided with accurate, timely and clear information and sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their duties.
Membership of the Committees during the year to 30 September 2013 is shown below, together with individual attendance at the Committee meetings held during each Directors period of service in FY2013.
Safety & 1 Audit & Risk Nomination Remuneration Sustainability Transformation Non-executive Directors 2 Len Konar Chairman 4 of 4 Member 5 of 5 Chairman 2 of 2 Jonathan Leslie Member 5 of 5 Member 7 of 7 Chairman 3 of 3 3 Phuti Mahanyele Member 1 of 2 Member 1 of 2 David Munro Member 5 of 5 Member 3 of 3 Member 2 of 2 4 Gary Nagle Member 0 of 1 Roger Phillimore Chairman 5 of 5 Cyril Ramaphosa Mahomed Seedat Member 3 of 3 Member 2 of 2 Karen fide Segundo Member 4 of 4 Member 5 of 5 Member 7 of 7 Member 3 of 3 Paul Smith Jim Sutcliffe Member 3 of 4 Member 5 of 5 Chairman 7 of 7 Member 2 of 2 Executive Directors 5 Ben Magara Member 2 of 2 Member 1 of 1 6 Simon Scott Member 2 of 2 Member 2 of 2 1 Mr Phillimore, Mr Leslie and Mrs fide Segundo were also in attendance at both meetings.
2 Dr Konar was appointed Chairman of this Committee from 1 February 2013.
3 Ms Mahanyele was appointed on 2 April 2013.
4 Mr Nagle was appointed on 9 September 2013.
5 Mr Magara was appointed on 1 July 2013.
6 Mr Scott relinquished his duties as Acting CEO with effect from 30 June 2013.
Following the year end, Brian Beamish was appointed as a member of the Nomination, Safety & Sustainability and Transformation Committees, all with effect from 1 November 2013.
Each Committee has written terms of reference, approved by the Board, summarising its objectives, remit and powers, which are available on the Companys website.
All Committee members are provided with appropriate induction on joining their respective Committees, as well as on-going access to training.
Minutes of all meetings of the Committees save for the private sessions of Committee members at the end of meetings or where the information in the minutes would conflict with the information protocol discussed below are made available to all Directors and feedback from each of the Committees is provided to the Board by the respective Committee Chairmen at the next Board meeting.
The Committee Chairmen attend the AGM to answer any questions on the Committees activities.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Corporate Governance Report 1.
How the Board of Directors operates continued 1.8 Board Committees, and how they support the Board continued The interaction between the Board, its Committees and the management of the Company can be summarised as follows: Board of Directors Safety & Chief Executive Audit & Risk Nomination Remuneration Transformation Sustainability Officer Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee See Page 44 See Page 57 See Page 52 See Page 70 See Page 55 See Page 53 Key: Board Committees Management Committees Executive Price & Risk Committee Committee Executive Directors, Executive Directors, Chief Commercial Officer Chief Commercial Officer, and five Executive Head of Tax, Treasury & Risk, Vice Presidents plus Head of Financial Planning one nominee of and Analysis, Executive Shanduka Resources Manager, Marketing See Page 56 See Page 56 1.9 How the Board manages conflicts of interest Directors have a statutory duty to avoid actual or potential conflicts of interest.
Where these have occurred, or may occur, the Board can authorise conflicts where it feels this to be appropriate, on such terms as it may decide.
There is a documented procedure in place to ensure best practice is followed.
This requires that when a Director becomes aware that he or she: is in a situation which does or could create a conflict of interest: or has an interest in an existing or proposed transaction in which the Company also has an interest: then they are required to notify the Board in writing of the situational or transactional conflict as soon as possible and, in any event, prior to any conflicted transaction being concluded.
Directors have a continuing duty to update the Board on any changes to their other appointments which, by way of further check, are reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
The interests of new Directors are reviewed during the recruitment process and authorised if appropriate by the Board at the time of their appointment.
Two of the Boards Non-executive Directors, Gary Nagle and Paul Smith, are senior executives of Glencore Xstrata, a significant shareholder of the Company.
In addition, Glencore Xstrata owns and operates a PGM business located in South Africa producing concentrates and their Nickel division produces by-product PGMs from its operations in Canada which are processed through to refined metal and then marketed.
As a result, Glencore Xstrata is a competitor of Lonmin for competition anti-trust law purposes.
An Information Sharing Protocol has been adopted by the Company and these two Directors in order to minimise the risk of breaching applicable law or regulation, whilst at the same time ensuring sufficient information is provided to enable them to discharge their duties as Directors of the Company.
No Director had a material interest in any contract of significance in relation to the Companys business at any time during the year or to the date of this report.
1.10 How we support the Board The Board, and its Committees, are supplied with regular, comprehensive and timely information in a form and of a quality that enables them to discharge their duties effectively.
All Directors are able to make further enquiries of the Executive Directors or management whenever necessary, and have access to the services of the Company Secretary.
There is a procedure in place for Directors to take independent professional advice, if they judge this to be necessary, at the Companys expense.
