168 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 A Deeper Look Cash Generation and Net Debt continued These are the critical factors to consider when Cash flow generated from operations in the year addressing the issue of whether the Group is a ended 30 September 2013 at $53 million was lower Going Concern.
than the $300 million recorded in 2012.
The cash benefits of improved profitability were more than offset Liquidity Risk by adverse working capital movements, $189 million The policy on liquidity is to ensure that the Group has was attributable to the replenishment of the metal in sufficient funds to facilitate all ongoing operations.
The process pipeline following last years production Group funds its operations through a mixture of equity stoppage as well as some lock up of the pipeline funding and borrowings.
The Groups philosophy is to experienced as a result of the smelter incident.
It maintain an appropriately low level of financial gearing should be noted that in 2012, working capital cash given the exposure of the business to fluctuations in flows benefited from the reduction in stock levels at PGM commodity prices and the Rand US Dollar year end as well as from the revenue received in exchange rate.
We ordinarily seek to fund capital advance on the forward sale of gold.
Trading cash inflow for the year to 30 September As part of the annual budgeting and long-term 2013 amounted to $16 million 2012 $263 million.
planning process, the Groups cash flow forecast is The cash outflow on interest and finance costs reviewed and approved by the Board.
The cash flow increased by $6 million as the benefit of reduced debt forecast is amended for any material changes levels was offset by amendment fees paid for revised identified during the year, for example material debt facilities and the cost of unwinding the interest acquisitions and disposals or changes in production rate swap.
Tax payments decreased by $6 million and forecasts.
Where funding requirements are identified represent provisional corporate tax payments which from the cash flow forecast, appropriate measures are benefited from unredeemed capital expenditure taken to ensure these requirements can be satisfied.
The trading cash inflow per share was Factors taken into consideration are: 3.0 cents for the year ended 30 September 2013 The size and nature of the requirement: against 69.1 cents for 2012.
Note that the prior year Preferred sources of finance applying key criteria trading cash inflow per share has been recalculated, of cost, commitment, availability, security in accordance with accounting standards, to take covenant conditions: into account the effects of the Rights Issue referred to below.
Recommended counterparties, fees and market conditions: and Capital expenditure cash flow at $159 million was Covenants, guarantees and other financial $249 million below prior year reflecting our revised commitments.
strategy and capital investment programme.
In Mining, the expenditure incurred was focused on sustaining During the year under review, the Group revised its capital across the various shafts as well as ore reserve debt facilities on the back of the successful Rights development projects at K3 shaft UG2 decline, Saffy Issue.
The amended US Dollar Facilities and amended shaft and Rowland shaft.
In the Process Division Rand Facilities came into effect in December 2012. spend comprised the completion of work at the The proceeds of the Rights Issue were used to repay Number One shaft concentrator and the Number One the Groups indebtedness under the original facilities, furnace integrity optimisation project.
including i the repayment in full of amounts outstanding amounting to $300 million plus accrued interest and The Group undertook a successful Rights Issue which applicable break fees under the US Dollar Term Loan, was completed in December 2012 and raised total which facility was cancelled: and ii the repayment of net proceeds of $767 million after costs and foreign amounts outstanding under the US Dollar Revolving exchange charges.
The proceeds of the Rights Issue Credit Facility: and iii the repayment of amounts were utilised to settle debt resulting in a net cash outstanding under the Rand Facilities Agreements.
position at 30 September 2013 of $201 million compared to a net debt position of $421 million at The remaining facilities are summarised as follows: 30 September 2012.
Revolving Credit Facility of $400 million at a Lonmin Plc level: and Key Financial Risks The Group faces many risks in the operation of its Three bilateral facilities of R660 million each at a business.
The Groups strategy takes into account WPL level.
known risks, but risks will exist of which we are The principal amendments to each of the original currently unaware.
This financial review focuses on agreements were to remove the net debt EBITDA and financial risk management.
EBITDA net interest covenants and to substitute these with the following financial covenants: Financial Risk Management Consolidated tangible net worth will not be less The main financial risks faced by the Group relate than $2,250 million: to the availability of funds to meet business needs liquidity risk, the risk of default by counterparties to Consolidated net debt will not exceed 25 per cent financial transactions credit risk and fluctuations in of consolidated tangible net worth: and interest, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices If: market risk.
Factors which are outside the control of in respect of the amended US Dollar Facilities management which can have a significant impact on Agreement, the aggregate amount of the business remain, specifically, volatility in the Rand outstanding loans exceeds $75 million at any US Dollar exchange rate and PGM commodity prices.
time during the last six months of any test period: or 01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 169 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 A Deeper Look in respect of both the amended US Dollar It should be noted that a significant portion of Lonmins Facilities Agreement and the amended Rand revenue is from two key customers.
However, both of Facilities Agreements, consolidated net debt these customers have strong investment grade ratings exceeds $300 million as of the last day of any and their payment terms are very short, thereby test period, reducing trade receivable credit risk significantly.
the capital expenditure of the Group must not HDSA Receivables exceed the limits set out in the table below, HDSA receivables are secured on the HDSAs shares, provided that, if 110 percent of budgeted capital whose only asset of value is its shareholding in Incwala.
expenditure for any test period ending on or after 30 September 2013 is lower than the capital Interest Rate Risk expenditure limit set out in the table below for Given that all debt has been repaid, this risk is not that test period, then the capital expenditure limit considered to be high at this point in time.
The interest for that test period shall be equal to 110 percent position is kept under constant review in conjunction of such budgeted capital expenditure.
with the liquidity policy outlined above and the future Test Period Capital expenditure limit Rand funding requirements of the business.
1 October 2012 to 31 March 2013 inclusive 800,000,000 Foreign Currency Risk The Groups operations are predominantly based in 1 October 2012 to South Africa and the majority of the revenue stream 30 September 2013 inclusive 1,600,000,000 is in US Dollars.
However, the majority of the Groups 1 April 2013 to operating costs and taxes are paid in Rand.
Most of 31 March 2014 inclusive 1,800,000,000 the cash received in South Africa is in US Dollars.
A majority of the Groups funding sources are in 1 October 2013 to US Dollars.
30 September 2014 inclusive 2,000,000,000 The Groups reporting currency is the US Dollar and the 1 April 2014 to share capital of the Company is based in US Dollars.
31 March 2015 inclusive 3,000,000,000 During the year under review, Lonmin did not 1 October 2014 to undertake any foreign currency hedging except in 30 September 2015 inclusive 4,000,000,000 relation to Rights Issue proceeds as described above.
1 April 2015 to 31 March 2016 inclusive 4,000,000,000 Commodity Price Risk Our policy is not to hedge commodity price exposure 1 October 2015 to on PGMs, excluding gold, and therefore any change 30 September 2016 inclusive 4,000,000,000 in prices will have a direct effect on the Groups trading results.
Credit Risk For base metals and gold, hedging is undertaken where the Board determines that it is in the Groups Banking Counterparties interest to hedge a proportion of future cash flows.
Banking counterparty credit risk is managed by The policy allows Lonmin to hedge up to a maximum spreading financial transactions across an approved of 75% of the future cash flows from the sale of these list of counterparties of high credit quality.
Banking products looking forward over the next 12 to 24 counterparties are approved by the Board and consist months.
The Group did not undertake any hedging of the ten banks that participate in Lonmins bank of base metals under this authority in the year under debt facilities.
These counterparties comprise: BNP review and no forward contracts were in place in Paribas S. A. Citigroup Global Markets Limited, respect of base metals at the end of the period.
FirstRand Bank Limited, HSBC Bank Plc, Investec Bank Limited, J. P. Morgan Limited, Lloyds TSB Bank Plc, In respect of gold, Lonmin entered into a pre-paid The Royal Bank of Scotland N. V. The Standard Bank sale of 75% of its current gold production for the next of South Africa Limited and Standard Chartered Bank.
In terms of this contract Lonmin will deliver 70,700 ounces of gold over the Trade Receivables period with delivery on a quarterly basis and in return The Group is exposed to significant trade receivable received an upfront payment of $107 million.
The credit risk through the sale of PGMs to a limited group upfront receipt was accounted for as deferred revenue of customers.
on our balance sheet and is being released to profit and loss as deliveries take place at an average price This risk is managed as follows: of $1,510 per ounce delivered.
Aged analysis is performed on trade receivable balances and reviewed on a monthly basis: Contingent Liabilities The Group provided third party guarantees to Eskom Credit ratings are obtained on any new customers as security to cover estimated electricity consumption and the credit ratings of existing customers are for three months.
At 30 September 2013 these monitored on an ongoing basis: guarantees amounted to $10 million 2012 $12 million.
Credit limits are set for customers: and Trigger points and escalation procedures are clearly defined.
