01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 163 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 A Deeper Look Integrated Human Settlements People Challenges facing Lonmins sustainable human Labour Relations settlement initiatives include: In light of the significant changes in union membership, The history of migrant labour, including the rise it became necessary to terminate the recognition of second families: agreement with the NUM and negotiate a new arrangement with AMCU.
The new recognition The proliferation of informal settlements: agreement signed with AMCU is similar to recognition Rising costs of building and maintaining houses: agreements concluded elsewhere within the mining Lack of land and space in which to develop industry and is in line with the requirements of the housing projects: Labour Relations Act.
Importantly, the new agreement Lack of bulk service infrastructure in and around recognises the fundamental rights of employees to local communities: belong to the unions of their choice and the principles that underpin the Deputy President facilitated Identification of a suitable partner to develop Framework for Sustainable Mining.
housing and amenities for our employees in accordance with the Lonmin criteria: In view of the new recognition agreement being A lack of capital funding for developments: concluded and in line with the requirements of section 18 2 of the Labour Relations Act, existing Little or no interest in home ownership from recognition agreements had to be terminated to employees: ensure consistent application of the new recognition Few or no community facilities for local communities, thresholds.
Notwithstanding, the minority unions which diminishes employees interest in settling in will represent their members during the 2013 these areas: wage negotiations which started in October 2013.
Lack of capacity in the local authorities: and The notice period will also be used for extensive consultations with all the unions on possible Unaffordability of housing both for ownership and engagement platforms beyond the 90 day notice.
The new recognition agreement lays the foundation Despite the above challenges Lonmin has made housing and accommodation a Board initiative for managing relations with representative trade unions.
We remain committed to an inclusive union because it recognises that, if done correctly, access to housing has the capacity to change peoples lives.
recognition dispensation and the new agreement with its 3 tier recognition levels enables participation by The access to decent living conditions is a basic human right, which affects numerous areas of human different unions.
settlements including health and family relationships.
This vision forms part of a larger integrated plan to enhance employee and community value propositions.
Housing Partnering with developers, capital funders and all The Broad-Based Socio-Economic Empowerment levels of government, provincial authorities and local Charter for the South African Industry, known as municipalities in order to achieve our goal of sustainable the Mining Charter, is a government instrument communities is a critical success factor.
The identification designed to effect sustainable growth and meaningful of a viable partner has been a major challenge.
transformation of the mining industry.
Housing and Living Conditions is one of the elements of the Following recent discussion and presentations made Mining Charter.
to the national Department of Human Settlement and the North West Provinces Department of Human Human dignity and privacy for mineworkers are the Settlement, a series of meetings and correspondence hallmarks to enhance productivity and expedite have ensued.
transformation in the mining industry in terms of housing and living conditions.
In this regard mining Understanding of Needs: Consultative Process companies must implement measures to improve the that Requires other Stakeholders standards of housing and living conditions for A fundamental part of our human settlement vision mineworkers.
The conversion or upgrade of hostels is to understand our employees way of living and into family units and single private units is one of the their needs in order to accelerate the provision of measures to attain the occupancy rate of one person housing opportunities to assist our employees in this per room by 2014. primary need.
In doing so, comprehensive studies were commissioned and completed in 2008, 2010 and more recently refreshed in 2013.
The topics included profiling of the demographics and assessing land availability.
In addition, we have ongoing dialogue with key stakeholders such as organised labour, provincial and local municipalities as these initiatives require a collaborative approach with key stakeholders.
