164 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 A Deeper Look Launched the brick making facility in Bapong, Community relations producing bricks, blocks and paving bricks and Community Value Proposition creating 42 long-term jobs: and Through the Community Value Proposition CVP, Commenced construction of a new primary Lonmin wants to ensure it is working on the correct school in Mnxekazi village, in the Eastern Cape.
projects and pitching them at a sustainable level, so The school forms part of our contribution towards that the Company can leave a lasting legacy in the the department of basic educations programme communities around its operations.
The new school The CVP process had three phases.
Phase one will have seven classrooms, a nutrition centre, was an extensive research project that took into two Grade R classrooms, science lab, and consideration the National Development Plan, multi media centre 56 short-term employment Integrated Development Plans from municipalities, opportunities created.
Bapo Ba Mogale ten year development plan, some of the documents produced by Statistics South Africa and the Companys economic footprint research.
Other Assets The research output was discussed with various Limpopo stakeholders, including internal stakeholders, the The date for completion of the proposed transaction provincial government departments, local municipalities, between Lonmin and Shanduka, our BEE partner, regional departments of health and education and remains 31 March 2015.
In the interim, a number various community members in Marikana.
Through of conditions precedent to the completion of the this engagement process, Lonmin was able to test transaction need to be satisfied including completion its research to understand what issues stakeholders of a feasibility review, the securing of funding and want the Company to prioritise and this will inform obtaining all necessary approvals.
step changes to our delivery approach in this and related areas in the years ahead.
Akanani We continue to await a decision by the DMR on our New Social and Labour Plan application for renewal of the prospecting right.
Lonmin is required to submit new five year SLPs and Should we be successful in renewing the right, we will arrangements are at an advanced stage to finalise have a period of three years from the date of renewal these documents for implementation in 2014. to conduct further prospecting activities.
A mining The primary focus of the new SLPs will be on right application would need to be submitted during accelerating transformation and implementing measures this three year renewal period failing which our rights to significantly improve the living conditions of our to Akanani would terminate.
Akanani provides us with employees as well as our host and major labour options in the long-term.
Exploration International The community investment programme has been Lonmin is exploring for PGM deposits around the significantly revamped as part of the community value Sudbury Basin in Ontario, Canada in joint ventures proposition initiative.
Through extensive engagements with Wallbridge Mining Company Limited and Vale S. A. with stakeholders including provincial and local Exploration mapping, geophysical surveys and drilling government, traditional authorities and host continued to generate targets for follow up in the communities, it has been agreed that Lonmin will coming year on our Canadian and Northern Ireland pursue the vision of Empowered, Sustainable properties.
Exploration South Africa This programme is one of a number of initiatives WPL carried out exploration activities on a PGM-Nickel including community empowerment, local recruitment prospect on Vlakfontein, and has defined shallow, drill and procurement.
An application for renewal of Vlakfoteins prospecting right has been submitted to the DMR and Local Economic Development we await their response.
Vlakfontein is entitled to one Building of the Ipopeng Service Centre in renewal of three years and will be required to submit Modderspruit provision of a safe work place a mining right during this renewal period failing which for the elderly citizens arts and crafts and also Vlakfonteins rights will terminate.
Lonmin has a joint includes a food centre: venture with Boynton in the eastern Bushveld but may Rebuilt four fire raged homes in the GLC: proceed with litigation against Boynton on the basis Implemented the GLC Waste Management and that it failed to comply with its promise to deliver an Refuse Collection programme.
Through this unencumbered asset to the joint venture.
In the programme we have facilitated refuse collection interim, Boynton awaits a response from the DMR on and removal from 26,500 households and 5,400 whether its application for renewal of prospecting right informal houses across the GLC.
We have also has been successful.
created 40 long-term jobs and created four local small and medium enterprises:
