110 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies Reporting entity Lonmin Plc the Company is a company incorporated in the UK.
The address of the Companys registered office is 4 Grosvenor Place, London, SW1X 7YL.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the year ended 30 September 2013 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in equity accounted investments.
Basis of preparation Statement of compliance The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs and approved by the Directors on this basis.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice UK GAAP.
The parent company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 10 November 2013.
Basis of measurement The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for the following: Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Available for sale assets are measured at fair value.
Liabilities for cash settled share-based payment arrangements are measured at fair value.
Non-current assets held for sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
Going concern In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the financial statements, the Directors are required to consider whether the Group can continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The financial performance of the Group is dependent upon the wider economic environment in which the Group operates.
Factors exist which are outside the control of management which can have a significant impact on the business, specifically, volatility in the Rand US Dollar exchange rate and PGM commodity prices.
The events at Marikana in August and September 2012 necessitated a review of the strategy and capital structure of the Group.
To this end, the Lonmin Plc Board concluded that reducing capital expenditure in the near term and raising additional equity, in conjunction with a revision to bank facilities would result in the appropriate capital structure and retain the Groups flexibility as regards financial risks.
In December 2012, Lonmin Plc successfully concluded a Rights Issue which raised net proceeds of $767 million see note 31.
In conjunction with the Rights Issue, Lonmin Plc negotiated certain amendments to the terms of the Groups existing debt facilities.
The proceeds of the Rights Issue were utilised to reduce the Groups debt exposure.
The Directors have prepared cash flow and covenant forecasts for a period in excess of twelve months from the date of these financial statements and have concluded that the capital structure, after the successful Rights Issue and debt facilities amendments, provides sufficient head room to cushion against downside operational risks and minimises the risk of breaching new covenants.
As a result, the Directors believe that the Group will continue to meet its obligations as they fall due and comply with its financial covenants and accordingly have formed a judgement that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
Therefore, these financial statements do not include any adjustments that would result if the going concern basis on preparation is inappropriate.
Functional and presentation currency The consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars rounded to the nearest million, which is the functional currency of the Company and its principal operations.
Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires the Directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
Judgements that have been made in the process of applying accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements, and estimates made that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are as follows:
