Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES NICKEL estimates as at 31 December 2013 NICKEL The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves The JORC Code, 2004 as a minimum standard.
The figures reported represent 100% of the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources, the percentage attributable to Anglo American plc is stated separately.
Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies.
LOM Plan Total Inferred MINERAL RESOURCES ARE REPORTED AS ADDITIONAL TO ORE RESERVES.
Mine Life The extraction period in years for scheduled Ore Reserves comprising Proved and Probable Reserves only.
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated or Measured Resource after continued exploration.
1 Barro Alto Ore Reserves: The decrease is primarily due to production along with reallocation of Ore Reserves to Mineral Resources.
The decrease is partially offset by increases due to updated economic assumptions and refinement of the geological model to take into account additional drilling and more detailed ore-waste contacts captured from pit mapping.
2 Niquelndia Ore Reserves: The increase is due to updated economic assumptions which are partially offset by reallocation of Ore Reserves to Mineral Resources.
Niquelndia Mine is adjacent to the Codemin Ferro-Nickel smelter which is fed with ore from Barro Alto which is blended with Niquelndia ore to achieve an appropriate smelter feed chemistry.
3 Barro Alto Direct Feed: Mineral Resources are quoted above a 0.9 %Ni cut-off, below an iron content of 30 %Fe and a SiO MgO ratio of less than or equal to 2 1.80.
A surface stockpile of 5.4 Mt at 1.31 %Ni is included in the Saprolite Mineral Resources.
4 Barro Alto Stockpile: Material that is scheduled for stockpiling or has already been mined and stockpiled.
A surface stockpile of 0.7 Mt at 1.19 %Ni is included in the Ferruginous Laterite Mineral Resources.
5 Niquelndia Mineral Resources: Mineral Resources are quoted above a 0.9 %Ni cut-off, below an Iron content of 30% Fe and a SiO MgO ratio of less than or 2 equal to 1.75.
The decrease is due to updated economic assumptions which are partially offset by reallocation of Ore Reserves to Mineral Resources.
6 Jacar: The Mineral Resources are reported within a pit shell developed for the Concept Study with a cut-off of 1.3 %Ni.
A minimum mineralised width of 1m must be present to allow material to be categorised as higher-grade Saprolite Mineral Resource.
The Saprolite Resources are a combination of higher-grade resources 1.3 %Ni that are expected to feed a pyrometallurgical treatment facility and lower-grade resources 1.3 0.9 %Ni that could be used to neutralise the acid in the proposed hydrometallurgical treatment of the Ferruginous Laterite material while still recovering Nickel in the process.
The Plano fide Aproveitamento Economico PAE is under consideration by Brazils Departamento Nacional fide Produo Mineral DNPM.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 237
