ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES IRON ORE estimates as at 31 December 2013 KUMBA IRON ORE The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with The South African Code for the Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves The SAMREC Code, 2007 Edition as amended July 2009.
The figures reported represent 100% of the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources, the percentage attributable to Anglo American plc is stated separately.
Anglo American plcs interest in Kumba Iron Ore Limited is 69.7%.
Detailed information appears in the Kumba Iron Ore Limited Annual Report.
Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies.
LOM Plan 4.6 8.2 62.9 62.8 Total Inferred 6.2 11.1 62.1 62.3 MINERAL RESOURCES ARE REPORTED AS ADDITIONAL TO ORE RESERVES.
Mine Life The extraction period in years for scheduled Ore Reserves comprising Proved and Probable Reserves only.
The tonnage is quoted as dry metric tonnes and abbreviated as Mt for million tonnes.
The Mineral Resources are constrained by a resource pit shell, which defines the spatial limits of eventual economic extraction.
Stockpile material is required to be blended to achieve suitable product specifications.
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated or Measured Resource after continued exploration.
Audits related to the generation of the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were carried out by independent consultants during 2013 at Sishen and Zandrivierspoort.
220 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES IRON ORE estimates as at 31 December 2013 1 Kolomela Ore Reserves: Ore Reserves are reported above a cut-off of 42.0 %Fe inclusive of dilution.
The decrease is primarily due to production.
The Mine Life decreases due to a higher planned annual production rate.
2 Sishen Ore Reserves: Ore Reserves are reported above a cut-off of 40.0 %Fe inclusive of dilution.
The decrease is primarily due to production as well as a decrease in the JIG reserve ferruginised Shale material occurring in the hanging wall of the main Hematite ore zone due to revised resource estimation methods.
The decrease in JIG reserves is offset by geological model updates following additional infill drilling.
Re-classification of Proved to Probable Ore Reserves took place pending grant of the Mining Right applied for in 2013 beneath the Railway Properties potentially impacting Ore Reserves underneath and West of the Railway Properties.
3 Thabazimbi Ore Reserves: Ore Reserves are reported above a cut-off of 54.3 %Fe inclusive of dilution.
The increase is due to the conversion of additional Measured and Indicated Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves as a result of additional drilling information which offsets production.
The Mine Life increases due to a lower planned annual production rate as well as the increase in Ore Reserves.
4 Kolomela Mineral Resources: Mineral Resources are reported above a cut-off of 50.0 %Fe.
The decrease is due to additional drilling which was used to refine the geological model of the Ploegfontein orebody.
The re-classification of Measured to Indicated Resources is the result of a refined classification methodology which places more weight on sample representivity.
5 Sishen Mineral Resources: Mineral Resources are reported above a cut-off of 40.0 %Fe.
The decrease is mainly due to a revision of the Shale and Flagstone Mineral Resource estimation and classification.
Stockpile material is considered as eventually economically extractable as local grade variations not identified by the grade estimation may result in this material becoming part of the run-of-mine blend to be converted into Saleable Product.
The Stockpile Resource estimates decrease due to a portion of this material now included in the Life of Mine Plan.
6 Thabazimbi Mineral Resources: Mineral Resources are reported above a cut-off of 55.0 %Fe.
The decrease can primarily be attributed to the revision of estimation methods applied at Donkerpoort Nek, where excessive extrapolation beyond borehole data has been addressed.
7 Zandrivierspoort: The Zandrivierspoort Project Mineral Resources are reported above a cut-off of 21.7 %Fe.
The increase is due to updated long-term forward looking price assumptions which aligns the Zandrivierspoort Project with the Kumba mining operations.
Assumption with respect to Mineral Tenure Sishen: On 21 December 2011, the South African High Court ruled that Sishen Iron Ore Company SIOC, the operating company of Kumba Iron Ore, was the exclusive holder of mineral rights for iron ore and quartzite on the mining rights area where the Sishen Mine is situated.
The High Court accordingly set aside the grant of the prospecting right granted by the Department of Mineral Rights DMR to Imperial Crown Trading 289 Pty Ltd ICT.
Both the DMR and ICT lodged an appeal to the Supreme Court of Appeal SCA against the ruling by the High Court, which appeal was heard by the SCA on 19 February 2013.
On 28 March 2013 the SCA dismissed the appeals as lodged by the DMR and ICT.
The SCA held that, as a matter of law and as at midnight on 30 April 2009, SIOC became the sole holder of the mining right to iron ore in respect of the Sishen Mine, after AMSA failed to convert its undivided share of the old order mining right.
On 23 April 2013, both ICT and the DMR had lodged applications for leave to appeal against the SCA judgment to the Constitutional Court CC.
The CC hearing was held on 3 September 2013.
On 12 December 2013, the CC granted the DMRs appeal in part against the SCA judgment.
In a detailed judgment, the CC clarified that SIOC, when it lodged its application for conversion of its old order right, converted only the right it held at that time being a 78.6% undivided share in the Sishen mining right.
The CC further held that AMSA retained the right to lodge its old order right 21.4% undivided share for conversion before midnight on 30 April 2009, but failed to do so.
As a consequence of such failure by AMSA, the 21.4% undivided right remained available for allocation by the DMR.
The Constitutional Court ruled further that, based on the provisions of the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act the MPRDA, SIOC is the only party competent to apply for and be granted the residual 21.4% mining right.
SIOC therefore has a legitimate expectation for the grant of the 21.4% mining right, based on the finding by the Constitutional Court that SIOC is the only entity capable of applying for, and being granted, the residual right, however, at the time of reporting the right has not yet been granted and therefore the reduction in SIOCs attributable shareholding from 100% to 78.6% thus reducing the AA plc attributable interest to 40.5%.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 221 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES IRON ORE estimates as at 31 December 2013 IRON ORE BRAZIL The Ore Reserves and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves The JORC Code, 2012 as a minimum standard.
The Minas-Rio project is located in the state of Minas Gerais, Brazil and will include open pit mines and a beneficiation plant producing high-grade pellet feed which will be transported, through a slurry pipeline to the Port of Au in the state of Rio fide Janeiro.
The project will largely be based on the two main deposits of Serra do Sapo and Itapanhoacanga.
Two ore types, Friable and Compact Itabirite, have been identified at Serra do Sapo and Itapanhoacanga.
Only the Friable material at Serra do Sapo is being considered for Phase 1 of the Minas-Rio project.
The planned annual capacity of Phase 1 is 26.5 Mtpa of iron ore pellet feed wet tonnes.
Execution of this project remains subject to the normal regulatory processes of the Brazilian authorities.
Mining method: OP Open Pit.
1 Minas-Rio Project: The Minas-Rio Project comprises the following sub-areas: Itapanhoacanga and Serra do Sapo.
At Itapanhoacanga, Friable Itabirite and Hematite includes Friable Itabirite, Semi-Compact Itabirite, Soft Hematite and Hard Hematite.
At Serra do Sapo Friable Itabirite and Hematite includes Friable Itabirite, Semi-Compact Itabirite, High Alumina Friable Itabirite, Soft Hematite and Canga.
Metallurgical test work indicates that the Compact Itabirite at Serra do Sapo is softer than Compact Itabirite mined in the Carajs and Iron Quadrangle areas.
From 2014 onwards at Serra do Sapo, Compact Itabirite will be referred to as Itabirite and Semi-Compact Itabirite as Semi-Friable Itabirite.
2 Serra do Sapo Ore Reserves: ROM Tonnes and grades are on a dry basis.
In 2012 tonnages were reported on a wet basis with an average moisture content of 4.2 wt% for Friable ore. Saleable Product tonnes are on a wet basis average moisture content is 8.0 wt% of the wet mass with quality stated on a dry basis.
The decrease is primarily due to a change in reporting basis from wet to dry tonnage, with updated pit slope angles and increased costs also contributing to the decrease.
This is partially offset by an update of the block model as a result of additional drilling and new pit optimisation undertaken.
The Ore Reserves include 2.5Mt at 48.8 %Fe of material stockpiled during pre-stripping operations.
3 Itapanhoacanga Mineral Resources: In-situ tonnes and grade are on a dry basis.
In 2012 in-situ tonnes were reported with a moisture content 3.9 wt% for the friable material and 0.2 wt% for the compact material.
The decrease in Mineral Resources is as a result of a change in reporting basis from wet to dry tonnage.
4 Serra do Sapo Mineral Resources: In-situ tonnes and grade are on a dry basis.
In 2012 in-situ tonnes were reported with a moisture content 4.2 wt% for the friable material and 0.1 wt% for the compact material.
The decrease in Friable and Compact Itabirite Mineral Resources is primarily due to updated reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction assumptions for the resource shell, the application of updated geotechnical parameters and a change in reporting basis from wet to dry tonnage also contributing to the decrease.
Additional infill drilling partially offset the decrease.
5 Serro: In-situ tonnes and grade are on a dry basis.
In 2012 the in-situ tonnes were reported with an average moisture content of 4.7 wt%.
Friable Itabirite and Hematite includes Friable Itabirite, Semi-Compact Itabirite and Hard Hematite 15.4 Mt at 64.6 %Fe.
The increase in Mineral Resources is due to an update of the block model as a result of additional drilling which is partially offset by a change in reporting basis from wet to dry tonnage.
222 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
