Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES MANGANESE estimates as at 31 December 2013 SAMANCOR MANGANESE The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves The JORC Code, 2012 and The South African Code for the Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves The SAMREC Code, 2007 Edition as amended July 2009 as applicable.
The figures reported represent 100% of the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources source: BHP Billiton, the percentage attributable to Anglo American plc is stated separately.
Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies.
Mining method: OP Open Pit, UG Underground.
Mine Life The extraction period in years for scheduled Ore Reserves comprising Proved and Probable Reserves only.
Mamatwan tonnages stated as wet metric tonnes.
Wessels and GEMCO tonnages stated as dry metric tonnes.
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated or Measured Resource after continued exploration.
During 2013 Samancor withdrew from the Franceville project in Gabon following the completion of the feasibility study and is therefore not reported.
Divestment of Beniomi and Bordeaux was completed in April 2013.
1 GEMCO Ore Reserves: Manganese grades are given as per washed ore samples and should be read together with their respective yields.
Production depletion is partially offset by increased density values based on reconciliations supported by grade control diamond drilling results.
2 Mamatwan Ore Reserves: The change is due to depletion from mining and re-running of the model using the FY13 LOA optimised Mine Plan.
3 Wessels Ore Reserves: The change is due to depletion from mining which is offset by the use of the new 2012 geological block model being used for the 2013 declaration.
4 GEMCO Mineral Resources: The adjustment of density values on the basis of grade control diamond drilling and additional drillhole information incorporated into the resource model in both the mining and exploration areas resulted in increased tonnages and resource confidence.
The areas of key change are the exploration leases which are now predominantly Indicated Resource previously Inferred.
The Premium Sands PC-02 Project Mineral Resource estimates above a zero cut-off grade Indicated: 12.8 Mt at 20.8 %Mn, Inferred: 2.3 Mt at 20.0 %Mn are excluded from the table.
5 Mamatwan Mineral Resources: A cut-off grade of 35.0 %Mn is used to declare Mineral Resources within the M, C and N Zones as well as within the XZone.
The Top Cut Resources are declared above a cut-off of 28.0 %Mn.
The change, after depletion from mining, is due to re-running the 2010 geological model using Micromine software.
6 Wessels Mineral Resources: A cut-off grade of 45.0 %Mn is used to declare Mineral Resources within the Lower Body-HG ore type and 37.5 %Mn in the Lower Body-LG and Upper Body ore types.
The increase, after depletion from mining, is mainly due to the new 2012 geological block model being used for the 2013 declaration.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 223
