O Or re R e Re es se er rv five es a s an nd M d Miin ne er ra al R l Re es so ou ur rc ce es s O OR RE R E RE ES SE ER RV five ES A S AN ND M D MI IN NE ER RA AL R L RE ES SO OU UR RC CE ES S INTRODUCTION The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates presented in this The estimates of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources are stated as Annual Report are prepared in accordance with the Anglo American plc at 31December 2013.
Unless otherwise stated, Mineral Resources are AA plc Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore additional to exclusive of those resources converted to Ore Reserves Reserves standard.
This standard requires that the Australasian Code for and are reported on a dry tonnes basis.
The figures in the tables have Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves been rounded and, if used to derive totals and averages, minor differences 2012 edition the JORC Code be used as a minimum standard.
Some with stated results could occur.
Ore Reserves in the context of this Annual Anglo American plc subsidiaries have a primary listing in South Africa Report have the same meaning as Mineral Reserves as defined by the where public reporting is carried out in accordance with the South African SAMREC Code and the CIM Canadian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral Definition Standards on Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves.
The SAMREC Code is similar to the JORC This section of the Annual Report presenting the Ore Reserve and Code and the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource terminology appearing Mineral Resource estimates, should be considered the only valid source in this section follows the definitions inboth the JORC 2012 and SAMREC of Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource information for the Anglo American 2007 Edition as amended July 2009 Codes.
group exclusive of Kumba Iron Ore and Anglo American Platinum which The information on Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources was prepared publish their own independent annual reports.
byor under the supervision of Competent Persons as defined in the It is accepted that mine design and planning may include some Inferred JORC or SAMREC Codes.
All Competent Persons have sufficient Mineral Resources.
Inferred Mineral Resources in the Life of Mine Plan experience relevant to the style of mineralisation and type of deposit LOM Plan are described as Inferred in LOM Plan separately from the under consideration and to the activity which they are undertaking.
All remaining Inferred Mineral Resources described as Inferred ex.
LOM the Competent Persons consent to the inclusion in this report of the Plan, as required.
These resources are declared without application of information in the form and context in which it appears.
The names of the any modifying factors.
Competent Persons are lodged with the Anglo American plc Company The direct legal ownership that Anglo American holds in each operation Secretary and are available on request.
and project is presented as the Attributable Percentage beside the name Anglo American Group companies are subject to a comprehensive of each entity.
Operations and projects which fall below the internal programme of reviews aimed at providing assurance in respect of Ore threshold for reporting 25% attributable interest are excluded from the Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates.
The reviews are conducted by Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources estimates.
Operations and projects suitably qualified Competent Persons from within the Anglo American which were disposed of or for which mining concessions expired during Group, or by independent consultants.
The frequency and depth of the 2013 and hence not reported are: Amap and Pebble.
reviews is a function of the perceived risks and or uncertainties associated In South Africa, the Minerals and Petroleum Resources Development Act, with a particular Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource, the overall value Number 28 of 2002 MPRDA was implemented on 1 May 2004, and thereof and time that has lapsed since an independent third party review effectively transferred custodianship of the previously privately held has been conducted.
Those operations projects subject to independent mineral rights to the State.
third party reviews during the year are indicated in footnotes to the tables.
A Prospecting Right is a new order right issued in terms of the MPRDA The JORC and SAMREC Codes require the use of reasonable economic that is valid for up to five years, with the possibility of a further extension assumptions.
These include long-range commodity price forecasts which of three years, that can be obtained either by the conversion of existing are prepared by in-house specialists largely using estimates of future Old Order Prospecting Rights or through new applications.
An Exploration supply and demand and long term economic outlooks.
Ore Reserves are Right is identical to a Prospecting Right, but is commodity specific in dynamic and are more likely to be affected by fluctuations in the prices respect of petroleum and gas and is valid for up to three years which can of commodities, uncertainties in production costs, processing costs and berenewed for a maximum of three periods not exceeding two years each.
other mining, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors which may impact the financial condition and prospects of the Group.
Mineral A Mining Right is a new order right issued in terms of the MPRDA valid for Resource estimates also change and tend to be influenced mostly by new up to 30 years obtained either by the conversion of an existing Old Order information pertaining to the understanding of the deposit and secondly Mining Right, or as anew order right pursuant to the exercise of the bythe conversion to Ore Reserves.
exclusive right of the holder of a new order Prospecting Right, or pursuant to an application for a new Mining Right.
AProduction Right is identical to The appropriate Mineral Resource classification is determined by the aMining Right, but is commodity specific in respect of petroleum and gas.
appointed Competent or Qualified Persons.
The choice of appropriate category of Mineral Resource depends upon the quantity, distribution and In preparing the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource statement for quality of geoscientific information available and the level of confidence in South African assets, Anglo American plc has adopted the following these data.
reporting principles in respect of Prospecting Rights and Mining Rights: To accommodate the various factors that are important in the development Where applications for new order Mining Rights and Prospecting Rights of a classified Mineral Resource estimate, a scorecard approach can be have been submitted and these are still being processed by the relevant used.
Mineral Resource classification defines the confidence associated regulatory authorities, the relevant Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources with different parts of the Mineral Resource.
The confidence that is have been included in the statement.
assigned refers collectively to the reliability of the Grade and Tonnage Where applications for new order Prospecting Rights have been estimates.
This reliability includes consideration for the fidelity of the base initially refused by the regulatory authorities, but are the subject of data, the geological continuity predicated by the level of understanding ongoing legal process and discussions with the relevant authorities of the geology, the likely precision of the estimated grades and and where Anglo American plc has reasonable expectations that the understanding of grade variability, as well as various other factors that Prospecting Rights will be granted in due course, therelevant Mineral may influence the confidence that can be placed on the Mineral Resource.
Resources have been included in the statement any associated Most business units have developed commodity-specific scorecard-based comments appear in the footnotes.
approaches to the classification of their Mineral Resources.
The summary of Estimated Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources, Reserve and Resource Reconciliation Overview, Definitions and Glossary are contained in the separate Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource Report 2013 which is available in the Reporting Centre on the Anglo American website.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 219
