Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Overview Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 07 How our business operates Over the last 129 years M&S has grown from a single market stall to become an engagement quarterly.
All our training and international multi-channel retailer.
We now operate in over 50 territories support activities are closely linked to our worldwide and employ almost 82,000 people.
Remaining true to our founding business plans: from improving employee values of Quality, Value, Service, Innovation and Trust, we work hard to ensure skills and product knowledge to the our offer continues to be relevant to our customers.
Through diversifying our development of future leaders for M&S.
store locations, channels and product ranges we are reducing our dependence Innovative ways of working on the UK and broadening our international focus.
Ongoing improvements to our operations are making us more efficient.
Our In touch Reaching our customers restructured supply chain has improved Customers are at the heart of our Our products are sold through 766 UK and our stock management and availability business and through our Customer 418 international stores in diverse and our e-commerce distribution centre Insight Unit, we ensure their needs locations across high streets and out of and new IT platform will strengthen our inform every aspect of our decisiontown retail parks.
Our Simply Food ability to deliver growth.
Through a combination of franchise partnerships ensure we are in the long-term sustainable business model customer feedback, focus groups and most convenient locations from railway for M&S through Plan A lies at the heart consumer research we are in touch with stations to motorway services.
over 17,000 customers every month, shopping habits change, were combining helping us anticipate their needs.
the best of web and store to extend our Managing risk reach and drive more spend from What we offer Effective risk management is essential customers.
In-store technologies help Our heritage of innovation helps us lead to the achievement of our strategic customers shop more of our catalogue the way with first-to-market products objectives and a key consideration in and our newly-created app enables across food, fashion and homeware.
In evaluating browsing and buying for shoppers on the are the UKs leading clothing retailer and risk, we consider external competitor and move making M&S available 24 7. offer high-quality food, with a focus on economic factors, our core day-to-day freshness, convenience and speciality.
Investing in our people operations, business change activity and Our own-brand model sets us apart and We communicate with our people potential future risks.
Mitigating activities we further differentiate our offer through throughout the year via a range of to address these are detailed in the exclusive collaborations.
channels and measure employee Accountability section of this report.
M&S business model Our channels Our people Stores Food Online Mobile site In store ordering Our culture Telephone Home catalogue Supplier relationships Clothing Innovative ways Our locations of working Major shopping centres High streets Financial Retail parks & strategic Railway stations Home planning Airports Petrol and service stations Supply chain & 24 7 online logistics Our values Quality Value Service Innovation Trust Plan A How we do business Customers insight Our products Where we sell How we sell Customer engagement and sales
