Governance Diversity Policy Control environment The way we manage our pubs, breweries and brands reflects the The key features of the internal control system are: preferences of many different consumer and customer types: it is A clearly defined management structure operating within a therefore vital that our management of the business has framework of policies and procedures covering authority appropriate regard for diversity when making decisions.
A detailed formal budgeting process for all Group activities, At Marstons, we consider that diversity includes but is not limited with the annual Group budget and projections for future years to personal attributes and characteristics, gender, ethnicity, age, being formally approved by the Board.
Our aim is to promote equality, Established procedures for planning, approving and monitoring respect and understanding, and to avoid discrimination.
capital expenditure and major projects.
Board approval is needed for all major investment, divestment On the Board, succession planning is informed by guidance and strategic plans and programmes.
provided by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and the At each meeting the Board reviews financial and non-financial Department for Business, Innovation & Skills BIS on both Board progress towards the Companys goals.
Effectiveness and Gender Diversity, and recruitment to the Board An internal audit function that scrutinises internal controls and recognises the benefits of diversity.
When recruiting, we require conducts audits on controls associated with key risks of the that executive search firms used have signed up to their industrys business, and which recommends improvements.
Voluntary Code of Conduct prepared in response to the Davies Review of Women on Boards.
We do not have a specific target Risk management system for numbers of female Directors, and make appointments on the There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and basis of merit.
managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The Board reviews the risks annually and the senior management team The Board, through the CEO, takes overall responsibility for identify and regularly review the top risks with their management diversity and equality below Board level.
We have a code of teams and the Corporate Risk Director.
These reviews cover behaviour which is communicated throughout Marstons: to strategic, financial, operational and compliance risks.
behave Fairly, with Integrity, and Transparency.
We have a Whistleblowing Policy intended to ensure that concerns can be Managers are required to identify key internal controls for each of raised without adverse effect on the reportees career and the risks they are responsible for.
The identified risks are classified development at Marstons.
Further details of Marstons approach and recorded in the Groups risk register.
to diversity can be found on the website www.
co. uk responsibility  The internal audit strategy takes into account the key business risks of the Group and provides assurance to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of the internal control C. ACCOUNTABILITY environment in mitigating the risks to an acceptable level.
The risk Fair, balanced and understandable assessment management programme provides vital information to ensure that In relation to compliance with the Code, the Board has given the internal strategy provides sufficient coverage of the critical consideration to whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken areas of internal control.
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
The preparation of this document is coordinated by the Finance and Company Compliance Secretariat teams with Group-wide support and input from other In 2013 Marstons set up a Compliance Committee chaired by the areas of the business.
Comprehensive reviews are undertaken at Corporate Risk Director, in order to monitor all areas of legal regular intervals throughout the process by senior management compliance across the Company.
The Committee is responsible and other contributing personnel within the Group.
for maintaining a register of legislation appertaining to Marstons activities, and seeking confirmation of compliance from Internal controls management on a regular basis.
Breaches in compliance will be The Board is responsible for the Companys systems of internal reported by the Committee to the Board: in addition the control and risk management.
The Executive Directors are Committee will report its operations biannually to the Board.
The responsible for the implementation of internal control and risk Committee meets quarterly, and includes representatives from management systems, which are designed to manage rather than across the business, in order to consider any emerging areas of eliminate risk.
By their nature, such systems provide only a legislation or challenges to existing compliance.
reasonable and not absolute defence against material errors, losses, fraud or breaches of the law.
Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED AUDIT COMMITTEE MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Dear Shareholder Each member of the Committee, all independent Non-executive Directors, contributes their own financial experience to effectively assess the external and internal audits of the Company and the internal control and risk management systems.
As indicated last year, the Committee has conducted a formal review of the external Audit, inviting a number of audit firms to tender for this work including one of the mid-tier firms outside of the Big 4.
In assessing the tender proposals and presentations received, the Committee considered the ability of each firm to deliver a timely and efficient audit, relevant sector experience and knowledge of key audit issues, the wider services provided to the Company and the price.
The Committee concluded that PwC continue to provide an effective audit service and that no other firm offered anything sufficiently different to justify a change of external Auditor.
As a consequence, the Committee recommends their re-appointment.
Neil Goulden Chairman of the Audit Committee Membership Responsibilities Neil Goulden Reviewing the integrity of the Companys financial statements Nick Backhouse including the Interim Results and the Annual Report and Rosalind Cuschieri Accounts.
Lord Hodgson Reviewing the effectiveness of the internal controls and risk management system.
Reviewing the Companys systems for detecting fraud, preventing bribery and allowing employees to raise concerns in a safe and confidential manner.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
Overseeing the relationship with the external Auditors, specifically reviewing and approving their fees, the terms of engagement and their objectivity and independence on an annual basis.
Attendees: Terms of reference: The Corporate Risk Director and external Auditors attend each Full terms of reference of the Committee can be found in the meeting.
Other individuals, such as the CEO, Chief Financial Investors section of the Companys website.
Officer CFO, are usually invited to attend all or part of the Committees meetings.
At least once a year, the external Auditors meet the Committee without any Executive Director present.
36 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
