CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Non-executive Directors Lord Hodgson has confirmed he will retire from the Board The Chairman, who was independent on appointment, will meet following the 2014 AGM.
Neil Goulden will assume the role of with the Non-executive Directors at least annually without the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Executive Directors being present.
Neils extensive experience across a wide range of roles and his membership of the Low Pay The Non-executive Directors are encouraged to constructively Commission will provide a unique sense of perspective to the challenge proposals on strategy, contributing to the development Remuneration Committee.
of the strategy in the long-term.
The Chairman is responsible for setting the correct environment and atmosphere to allow this to Nick Backhouse will be appointed as Chairman of the Audit take place, particularly through his experienced chairmanship of Committee in place of Neil.
Nick is a Chartered Accountant and meetings and control of agendas.
his extensive financial experience means he is ideally placed to chair the Audit Committee.
Board and Committee meeting attendance We have established Committees of the Board to deal with specific We consider all of our Non-executive Directors to be independent issues under the Code, each with its own terms of reference which and the following chart portrays the balance of the Board as at are regularly reviewed and updated.
Further information on each of the date of this report: these Committees can be found on pages 34 to 53.
The table below Balance of Executive and Non-executive Directors shows each Directors attendance throughout the year: Name Board Nomination Audit Remuneration 11% Andrew Andrea 10 10 Nick Backhouse 8 10 3 4 3 4 Rosalind Cuschieri 10 10 4 4 4 4 4 4 33% Peter Dalzell 10 10 56% 1 Roger Devlin 1 1 1 1 Chairman Ralph Findlay 10 10 4 4 Executive Directors Neil Goulden 10 10 4 4 4 4 4 4 Non-executive Directors Robin Hodgson 10 10 4 4 4 4 4 4 Robin Rowland 10 10 4 4 4 4 2 David Thompson 9 9 3 3 Commitment Significant commitments of the Directors held outside of Marstons are disclosed prior to appointment and on an ongoing 1 Roger Devlin was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2013.
2 David Thompson stepped down from the Board on 31 August 2013. basis where there are any changes.
Actual and potential conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed.
The Articles of Association allow B.
EFFECTIVENESS the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest and to impose any limits or conditions it sees fit.
All of our Directors are required Board composition to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their As at the date of this report, our Board consists of nine Directors.
responsibilities effectively and this is reviewed as part of the In addition to the Chairman, Roger Devlin, there are five Nonannual evaluation process.
executive Directors and three Executive Directors.
Following David Thompsons indication that he intended to step down from the The former Chairman, David Thompson, is a Director of Ragleth Board a sub-committee of the Board, led by Lord Hodgson, Limited, the controlling shareholder of Anglia Maltings Holdings appointed the external agency KORN FERRY Whitehead Mann Limited and a supplier to the Company.
All contracts are who identified a suitable shortlist of candidates for the Nomination concluded on ordinary commercial terms without David Committees consideration.
Roger Devlin was appointed as Thompson being present in contract negotiations or in the event Chairman of the Board on 1 September 2013.
Rogers extensive of any consideration of these by the Board.
The former Chairman board experience and knowledge of the hospitality and leisure has no controlling interest in Ragleth Limited and consequently industries compliments the skills, experience and knowledge of the transactions between the Company and Ragleth Limited are the Board.
not related party transactions as defined by International Financial Reporting Standards.
Peter Dalzell was appointed to the Board on 3 October 2012 as an Executive Director.
32 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Evaluation During the year the Board held three meetings at sites other than The Code recommends that an evaluation of the effectiveness of at Head Office in Wolverhampton, visited a number of its the Board and its Committees is conducted annually and that this managed pubs and met with local management to further its process is externally facilitated at least every third year.
This year understanding of operational matters.
Individually, the Nonthe evaluation process was externally facilitated, having last been executive Directors spent time with senior managers visiting carried out this way in 2010 11. managed and tenanted pubs and our regional breweries.
There are regular opportunities for the Directors to meet with senior The evaluation, conducted by Equity Communications Limited, management in the pubs and breweries to maintain and deepen involved a questionnaire designed to assess current Board their understanding of our business.
processes and procedures, its composition, allocation of priorities and management of risk with the aim of assisting the new Information and support Chairman in framing the future focus of the Board.
The review of The Chairman agrees the agenda for each meeting in conjunction the Committees focused on their performance throughout the with the CEO and Company Secretary.
Board and Committee year, whether the agendas covered their remits and the members are supplied with briefings on substantive issues in effectiveness of their communications with the full Board.
advance of meetings and there is a regular timetable of matters for consideration during the year.
Board papers are circulated at least A report was prepared for the Board on its effectiveness and that seven days prior to each Board or Committee meeting to ensure that of its Committees.
The report concluded Marstons Board is Directors have sufficient time to review them before the meeting.
sound, well-rounded and highly functional and that the Board and Regular reports cover the Companys financial position, risk its Committees continued to operate effectively.
The atmosphere management and regulatory compliance.
Updates on activities is collegiate but appropriately challenging and there are no across each operating division and performance against targets are significant areas of concern.
Whilst the report highlighted the reported to the Board through the senior operating managers in a quality of information provided to the Board, we have adopted the monthly summary of key business operations.
recommendation to review the format in which papers are delivered.
The review also identified a number of areas for the The Company Secretary advises the Board, through the Board to integrate into its annual forward agenda to enhance the Chairman, on all governance matters.
All Directors have access following: to her advice and services.
If necessary, Directors may seek balance between monitoring past performance and independent professional advice at the Companys expense in considering the future of the business: the performance of their duties.
focus on the execution of strategy: and consideration of succession planning, recruitment and culture.
Election and re-election Shareholders will consider the election of Roger Devlin at the AGM The Board is of the opinion, supported by the Nomination and he will be subject to annual re-election thereafter.
All other Committee, that each Director continues to make an effective Directors offer themselves for re-election at each AGM.
Details of and valuable contribution and demonstrates commitment to his each Director serving on the Board at the date of this Report are set or her role.
out on pages 26 to 27 and, with the exception of Lord Hodgson, shall be set out to shareholders in the papers accompanying the Training and development election and re-election resolutions for the AGM.
The Chairman will take on the responsibility for ensuring that Directors continually update their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the Company.
The Chairman will conduct development reviews with each Director and, where necessary, the Company will provide resources to meet development requirements for individual Directors.
All Directors receive a tailored induction programme on joining the Board.
Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED NOMINATION COMMITTEE MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Dear Shareholder Following my appointment as Chairman of the Company and Nomination Committee in September 2013, the initial focus of the Committee will be the further development of the long-term succession plans for the Board.
The assessments and outputs from the recent externally facilitated Board evaluation will also inform a review of the composition and structure of the Board and its Committees to ensure that they best service the needs of the Company and its shareholders.
Roger Devlin Chairman of the Nomination Committee Membership Responsibilities Roger Devlin from 1September 2013 Ensure the Board and its Committees have the right balance David Thompson until 31August 2013 of skills, knowledge and experience.
Nick Backhouse To plan for the orderly succession of Directors to the Board Rosalind Cuschieri and other senior executives.
Ralph Findlay To identify and nominate suitable candidates for Executive Neil Goulden and Non-executive Director vacancies having regard to, Lord Hodgson amongst other factors, the benefits of diversity, including Robin Rowland gender diversity.
Attendees: Terms of reference: Other Executive Directors, senior management and external Full terms of reference of the Committee can be found in the advisers may be invited to attend meetings.
Investors section of the Companys website.
Activities The Nomination Committee met four times during the year, specifically to consider the recruitment and appointment of a new Chairman and to consider and appoint Richard Westwood as the new Managing Director of Marstons Beer Company.
The Committee also considered the membership of the Board and each of its Committees and, using the output from the Board evaluation, is actively reviewing the long-term succession planning process for Non-executive Directors to ensure the structure, size and composition of the Board and its Committees continues to be effective, thus ensuring appropriate levels of corporate governance and best practice.
The effectiveness of the Committee was considered as part of the wider Board evaluation process.
The Board concluded that it is satisfied that the Committee continues to perform its duties in accordance with its terms of reference.
Finally, the Committee considered the effectiveness and commitment of each Director standing for election or re-election at the 2014 AGM and, having concluded that their performance continues to be effective, recommends the election or re-election of each Director to its shareholders.
34 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
