sTraTegy in acTiOn ContinuEd Marstons Pub career Path With the continued rise in food sales across our business this year we have concentrated on enhancing the training and engagement levels of our kitchen teams and chefs, and launched the third and final level of our Chef Development Programme CDP which forms a key part of the Marstons Pub Career Path.
All employees who join Marstons to work within our kitchens will start by completing a job specific induction programme and five e-learning courses.
Training and development thereafter takes place through our bespoke CDP.
For employees who join Marstons as a Kitchen Porter or Kitchen Assistant, CDP Level 1 trains them to become a Line Chef.
This level teaches them how to cook every dish on the menu and how to use every piece of equipment in the kitchen.
In addition CDP Level 1 gives employees an understanding of basic profit and loss within the kitchen, and softer skills relating to working as a team and communication skills.
Since the launch of the first level of CDP in 2011, over 2,000 employees have completed this training programme.
For Line Chefs with their eyes on a step towards kitchen management, they can continue to progress through our career path and complete Development through the career path is not the only way that we have CDP Level 2, which will train them to be a Second Chef.
This level been able to engage with our valued kitchen teams this year.
2013 saw provides them with the skills and knowledge to manage the kitchen in a series of Head Chef Conferences take place within our Two for One the Head Chefs absence and includes training in areas such as placing format.
Our Two for One Head Chefs were invited to regional food orders, completing stock takes and keeping the kitchen team conferences to hear all about Two for One performance, future strategy motivated.
Since launching CDP Level 2 in 2012 over 800 chefs have and their new menu.
We also launched our new Head Chef Bonus completed this level helping them obtain their CDP Level 2 Second Chef Scheme in October 2013 recognising the outstanding contribution of a job title and the recognition that comes with this.
number of Head Chefs through prizes awarded for excellent SMILE survey scores on food quality.
Launched at the start of the 2012 13 financial year CDP Level 3 is the level that develops our Second Chefs to Head Chefs.
As part of this level Our plans to develop our kitchen team do not end here.
In the coming we focus on developing the management skills of our Head Chefs year we have plans to continue kitchen team and chef skill development through blended learning which includes completion of a workbook, and engagement by introducing new training programmes for our demonstrating practical skills in their own kitchen and three classroom Milestone Carvery and Milestone Rotisserie sites.
We are also looking to based workshops delivered by the kitchen training team.
We are build development bridges between our Head Chef Programme and our delighted that over 130 employees have completed their Head Chef Deputy Manager Programme for those Head Chefs with aspirations to training so far.
move front-of-house and towards pub management.
Value and service Over the last decade our organic development has been lower calorie alternatives.
The introduction of full table service and underpinned by the F-Plan: a focus on Food, Families, Females new retail technology such as hand-held tills exemplifies our and Forty Fifty somethings.
The plan was introduced in commitment to service improvement initiatives like this assist anticipation of consumer trends including the development of the with customer communication, contributing to double digit growth UK eating-out market: social and demographic changes including in starters, desserts and coffee sales in 2013. higher female employment and a maturing UK population: and the potential for pubs to offer a better experience to families.
We are We measure our success through our online customer feedback confident that this focus remains appropriate today.
process which we call the SMILE report for obvious reasons.
SMILE provides quick feedback enabling us to respond faster In our managed pubs we served over 30 million meals last year in improving customer service.
and in our Destination pubs food is the primary driver for around 80% of customer visits.
We consistently outperformed the Peach Our people are critical to the success of our service ethos.
Market Tracker an accepted index of pub and restaurant We have comprehensive recruitment and training programmes performance in 2013 and have increased our share of the designed to ensure that we recruit the best staff available in a eating-out market.
The appeal of our pubs to families is strong highly skilled area, with clear development, training and career and increasing, demonstrated by a 19% increase in kids meals paths for all of our pub staff.
There is a perception in the UK that served in the year.
careers in the pub sector are low paid and low skilled.
As the growing number of great managers and chefs attracted to our Consumer expectations are increasing and the pace of change is pubs demonstrates, this is a highly skilled business, and there is a rapid.
We aim to continue to increase market share within the clear pathway for talented young people with front-of-house and informal pub-dining sector through offering excellent choice, catering skills.
Marstons opens 20-30 new pub-restaurants a outstanding value and high service standards key priorities for year, each one creating around 50 new jobs, many of which are customers today.
Our menus are refreshed frequently and offer accessible to young people and in places where jobs are choice from traditional pub favourites to international meals and considered scarce.
12 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
