sTraTegy in acTiOn Our strategy, as described below, focuses on the organic development of the business.
The potential for developing through acquisition is reviewed regularly and measured against the consistently strong returns achieved through our organic investments.
in 2014 we intend to accelerate our new-build development plans and to initiate a more aggressive disposal programme for smaller wet-led pubs.
There are five key components to our plans: 1.
Operating high quality pubs for current and future consumers New-build pub-restaurants Investment in new-build pub-restaurants continues to be the primary growth driver for Marstons.
In 2013 we opened 22 new-build pub-restaurants across the UK, including our first pubs in Scotland.
Over the past seven years we have built more than 100 new pub-restaurants throughout England, Wales and Scotland.
Our pub-restaurants are well located and designed to combine traditional pub ambience with convenience and provide attractive, relaxed dining options.
We focus particularly on value for money with high standards of service and building pub-restaurants which are ideal for day to day convenience, special treats or celebrations.
The new-build programme a national From an investment perspective, the organic new-build rollout with industry leading momentum programme has generated consistently higher returns on capital Marstons pub development initiative is a truly national programme and invested than historical acquisitions across the industry, reflecting 2013 saw us open pubs across the UK, including in the Isle of Wight, careful selection of hand-picked sites, attractive pub design and Dunbar, Hunstanton and Holyhead.
build, and a strong consumer offer.
The performance of our We employ a leading team of development surveyors to acquire land and new-build programme since 2010 has been good, consistently have concluded development deals with Premier Inn, Tesco, Morrisons, beating our target return on capital of 16.5% representing an KFC and Costa Coffee.
This high return on capital has Our achievements were recognised by the Property Industry in 2011, generated significant value for investors, demonstrated by the where we won Property Company of the Year Leisure at the Estates 2012 estate valuation of the new-build pubs which yielded an Gazette awards and we have been shortlisted, as finalists, again in 2013. uplift of over 50% against build cost.
We were selected ahead of many established property companies and are regarded as a successful property developer in our own right.
Site selection is critical to the success of our new-build pubWe expect to open 25-30 freehold sites per annum and have a good restaurants.
Our experienced acquisitions team have established pipeline of openings for many years to come.
good relationships with site developers, helping to maintain a Our 2013 2014 planned openings by region are shown below: preferred partner status based on knowledge and experience.
As a consequence we have a strong, visible site pipeline for the foreseeable future.
5 South East 9 Our success in finding good sites and the strong financial results Scotland 3 achieved through building new pub-restaurants have enabled us East to increase our expansion target from 20-25 per year to 25-30 Midlands per year.
North 5 3 2 South West Accelerated disposal of smaller wet-led pubs Consumer expectations are changing and demand for betterquality pub and dining experiences is increasing, stimulated by New-builds enable us to expand into new geography, with a building greater choice and new, exciting brands and formats.
This trend designed to maximise the consumer experience and operational provides opportunity, but it also exposes an increasing number of efficiency.
Our recent estate revaluation showed that each new pubs and licensees to a developing market which is pub-restaurant opened is worth over 1 million more than the demanding higher standards.
development cost meaning that our expansion programme is delivering significant shareholder value.
The pubs most exposed to this trend tend to be smaller, wet-led In reality quality pub-restaurants rarely become available in the open pubs where food sales are modest or incidental, and which lack market and, when they do, they attract significant premium bids from the the position or scale to compete effectively with either wellsector.
A controlled development programme means we do not have to implemented managed formats or very high quality independent rely on opportunistic purchases or compromise our return on capital ROC hurdle rates when such pubs present themselves.
These pubs have also suffered most from the governments taxation and legislative changes in recent years.
We are one of the few pub companies to achieve BREEAM Excellent As a result we now aim for a higher number of disposals, accreditation on new developments and incorporate many energy saving initiatives within our standard specification.
principally from the Taverns estate, with a target of 60-70 million proceeds per annum for financial years 2014 and 2015.
Our focus and track record of completing deals has resulted in a significant pipeline of sites under negotiation over 100 meaning that the new-build programme will be a cornerstone of Marstons expansion strategy for many years to come.
10 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report These more aggressive disposal plans are intended to improve food development returns over time: assist the funding of the new-build programme: and improve further the quality of our estate.
During 2013 we sold, Informality in dining out is becoming more popular, and customers or exchanged contracts, on 130 pubs and other assets needs are for a more casual and less structured eating experience.
At the same time, there is an increasing trend in three other key themes generating net proceeds of around 50 million.
In addition, since a demand for freshness, customisation and more retailtainment.
the year end we have unconditionally exchanged contracts on the Our pubs and offers are well suited to benefit from these trends: below disposal of a package of 202 pubs for a consideration of 90 are three examples from last year.
million at a sale multiple of just under 7.6x EBITDA.
As a Milestone Rotisserie consequence, the quality of our remaining estate will improve.
As part of the continued rollout of the Milestone Rotisserie format, there has been further focus on the front-of-house rotisserie oven and Development of a range of pub brands and formats accompanying theatre and merchandising, providing a unique appropriate to local markets environment for customers.
Our range of pub brands and formats is one of the strengths of our Larger ovens have been installed in some pubs, creating a greater focus business model, enabling us to meet different customer expectations on the rotisserie cooking method as well as enabling a greater range of for different occasions and in different markets: in each format, our meats to be cooked in them.
The deli layout provides a more allencompassing and sensory experience than standard pub dining and in objective is to be the best place around here for celebrating, addition to our beer and glassware, the deli now stocks the same sauces socialising and convenience.
Our formats are in one of three principal that are used on the rotisserie dishes adding to the more immersive groups, each of which achieved like-for-like sales growth in 2013. nature of the whole experience and customer relationship.
More than just a carvery Destination food: our 314 pubs in this category are principally Customers have always liked the ability to see the food in front of them in two brands Marstons Two for One 138 pubs, and Milestone and choose for themselves.
In our Milestone Carvery pubs they can now 82 pubs.
Both brands offer excellent value for money to customers, also enjoy a cooked breakfast selection from the deck every Saturday with a focus on offering high quality food and drink in a relaxing pub and Sunday.
Service standards are high, Taking eat with your eyes one step further, every pub has had a cake including full table service in all sites.
Our focus on service and pub display cabinet installed showcasing some really jaw-dropping giant ambience together with interesting and varied menus supports a desserts.
Available either to eat in or take away, this has significantly increased sales of desserts.
high food sales mix of around 56%.
Our new-build pub-restaurants are operated under these two brands.
With the main carvery offer, freshness and provenance have also become more evident, with virtually all vegetables served now fresh, not frozen, seasonal items introduced, and extra communication in pubs Premium pubs and bars: our 35 outlets are Pitcher & Piano bars to explain provenance.
Pitcher & Piano performed well in 2013 with good Wood-fired pizzas in Revere pubs growth in like-for-like sales and profit.
Pitcher & Piano is popular with Our premium pubs already serve amazing quality steaks, cooked in our young, more affluent adults attracted to lively bars in premium Josper charcoal ovens, giving an intense smoky flavour.
Food sales are increasingly important and now account for feature has been added to the menu and dining experience in the form 25% of sales.
We opened a new Pitcher & Piano in Hitchin during the of rustic wood-fired pizza ovens.
summer which has traded strongly, and we will selectively seek to Dedicated pizza chefs hand stretch and cook pizzas in front of expand the estate as appropriate locations become available.
Revere customers using these traditional wood-fired ovens.
The offer is pubs are high quality pubs in very strong locations which benefit enhanced with the addition of great-tasting local specials.
The Curious from a premium offer with an independent trading style.
The first six Pig pizza, for example, which features roasted bacon, pulled pork shoulder and caramelised apple, has proved to be a massive hit Revere pubs opened in 2013 with six more identified for conversion with customers.
The addition of this quality pizza offer has opened up other trading parts of the week outside of traditional weekend and evening peaks.
Pizzas Taverns: Taverns is our community pubs business, including 135 now account for around 20% of food sales in Revere pubs.
managed pubs, 603 franchise pubs and 578 tenancies.
We aim to offer traditional pub entertainment and everyday value food and drink in a traditional community local pub environment.
Typically, these are wet-led pubs, although food sales are increasing and represent around 25% of sales mix.
We will continue to invest, where necessary, in these pubs.
Over the next two to three years we expect that most of our Taverns pubs will be operated under our successful franchise model which is described in further detail below.
In Marstons Inns we offer high quality pub accommodation in around 50 pubs.
In addition, we are co-located with national lodge operators on 12 sites that have already been developed, and in 2013 we opened three Marstons lodges Aberystwyth, Chepstow and Redditch adjacent to pub-restaurants.
Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 11
