Governance Auditors Customs may seek repayment of the amount originally paid In assessing the work of the external Auditors, the Committee plus interest.
The Committee agreed that this item should found itself satisfied with the scope of their work, their be classified as exceptional.
effectiveness, tender proposal and presentation and fee proposal The Committee also assessed the quality of earnings in and recommended their re-appointment to the Board.
The assessing the completeness of exceptional items and external Auditors conduct an annual review of their independence considered the requirements for further disclosure.
identifying all services provided to the Group and assessing Valuation of financial instruments: the Committee whether the content and scale of such work is a threat to their acknowledged that there continues to be volatility in the independence.
The audit partner is changed at least once every relative fair values of the financial instruments and concluded five years and a new partner was appointed during this period.
that the valuation in the accounts, which is based on the The new partner observed the 2011 12 audit to ensure continuity counterparty calculations, represents an appropriate and following the changeover.
Following this years review the Auditors consistent approach with prior years.
concluded that there are no factors which would impair their Other matters: the Committee considered and agreed the key objectivity and independence.
The Committee is satisfied with the judgements made in relation to corporate and indirect tax safeguards in place to protect the independence and objectivity matters and the valuation of pension assets and liabilities.
of the service provided by the external Auditors.
D. REMUNERATION The Committee accepts that some non-audit work is most Information on the Remuneration Committee, its membership and appropriately undertaken by the Auditors.
Where such work is activities is given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages expected to be in excess of a specified amount, the Chairman of the 38 to 53.
A resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Audit Committee must approve the work.
Below that amount, the Policy will be proposed at the AGM and, if approved, will be CFO has authority to approve such work once he is satisfied that the effective from 5 October 2014.
The Report also comprises the Auditors are the most appropriate providers.
The Group has used Annual Report on Remuneration and this is subject to an advisory other accounting firms for some non-audit work.
In each case, vote at the AGM.
consideration was given to the need for value for money, experience and objectivity required in the particular circumstances.
E. SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS Engagement with our shareholders is essential to ensure a Activities greater understanding of and confidence in the medium and During the year the Committee met four times to consider and longer-term strategy of the Company and in the Boards ability review the risks to the Group, the internal control and risk to oversee its implementation.
management systems, to assess the annual internal audit plan and to review the audit tender proposals and presentations An investor relations programme is in place between the Executive received.
The Corporate Risk Director presented to each of the Directors and institutional shareholders, fund managers and meetings.
The Committee also considered the Annual Report and analysts.
The CEO and CFO meet with Private Client Fund Managers Accounts and Interim Results.
In order to provide the Committee in a number of locations on a quarterly basis.
Matters such as with the opportunity to review and challenge the integrity of the strategy, performance, management and governance are discussed Companys financial reports, the external Auditors attended each within the constraints of information already made publicly available.
The external Auditors also presented their audit strategy, findings and conclusions in respect of the Annual Report and The Board considers it important to understand the views of Accounts or Interim Results.
shareholders and issues which concern them.
At least twice each year, it receives written feedback from analysts and institutional In addition the Committee reviewed a number of standing items shareholders on their meetings with Executive Directors.
During the including the Groups Whistleblowing Policy and arrangements year the Chairman and Senior Independent Director were available to thereunder, matters arising from internal audits and compliance meet with the Companys major institutional investors who are also and legal developments.
offered the opportunity to meet with newly appointed Directors.
Significant financial judgements The Company Secretary oversees communication with private In recommending the Interim Results and Annual Report and individual shareholders on behalf of the Board.
The Annual Report Accounts to the Board for approval, the Committee reviewed and Accounts is the principal means of communication and the the accounting for and disclosure of the following matters: Companys website is an important method of communication for The annual valuation of properties: the Committee concluded the majority of its shareholders providing comprehensive share that the carrying value of properties was appropriate and price information, results presentations, financial calendars and endorsed managements proposal to increase the frequency announcements.
of full external valuations from every five to three years, supplemented by the internal valuation process.
The AGM is an opportunity for the Board to communicate with The classification of exceptional items including: all of its shareholders.
Recent trading performance and Reorganisation costs: the Committee was comfortable with developments in the business are presented prior to the formal managements assessment that the costs identified as a business of the meeting.
Shareholders are invited to ask result of the pub estate restructuring should be recognised questions during the meeting, which is followed by an opportunity as exceptional.
to meet with the Directors on an informal basis.
All of our Following the Court of Appeals unanimous judgement in Directors attend and have dialogue with our shareholders at our October 2013, against The Rank Group Plc, in relation to AGM.
The Company will release the results of voting, including the VAT treatment of gaming machine income and proxy votes on each resolution, on its website on the next Marstons own claim in respect of this matter, a provision business day at www.
co. uk investors has been recognised in the accounts as HM Revenue & Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 37
