Differentiation in the beer market through a Tapping into craft beer localness and premium ale strategy Whilst the overall beer market continues to decline, more premium There are two consumer trends which have influenced our brewing formats of beer including cask ales, world lagers and craft beers strategy in recent years.
continue to grow and deliver opportunities for value and margin growth.
This is fuelled by consumers moving away from mass market and First, the ale market has fragmented as a consequence of increasing commodity beers and looking for products that deliver more of a consumer interest in provenance, choice and taste particularly in premium experience on their beer drinking occasions for which they are prepared to pay a premium.
This trend broadly mirrors the growth of craft beers in the US, and is evident in the UK by the growth in micro-breweries Our annual drinker survey revealed that these consumers define craft beers as being in limited distribution, produced from smaller regional and there are now around 1,000 breweries across the country.
There is less well known international brewers, with a dedication to ingredients less interest in conventional big brand behaviour amongst and craftsmanship, delivering more taste and flavour.
These findings have led to the development of a portfolio offering of premium draught and bottled craft beers to complement our core range Second is the demand for more premium beers.
This is linked to of premium cask and bottled ales.
interest in taste, but also reflects the increasing importance of eating We have launched our own craft beer brand platform with the Revisionist out in pubs: the choice of beer is more likely to be premium when it beer series.
This gives the brewing teams at each of our regional accompanies a meal.
breweries the opportunity to raise their profile through the production of their own interpretations of classic and contemporary In determining our brewing strategy some years ago, we anticipated beer styles and provides the consumer with different beer drinking these trends.
We have a competitive advantage in not only being experiences.
able to brew beers from five breweries in England, but also being We have also established a strategic alliance with the Shipyard Brewing able to sell them across the UK.
Co. to produce collaboration beers that allow us to brew and distribute their beers in the UK.
This strategy has produced demonstrable success: in 2013 we In the latter part of 2013 we also agreed a partnership contract with increased ale volumes by 6% in a market which declined by 3% Heineken International headquartered in Amsterdam to be their building on the volume growth and market share gains achieved in exclusive UK distributor for the Premium Czech beer brand Krusovice.
Over the past five years we have increased our Craft beer is delivering a premium margin opportunity: premium ale volumes by around 25% in total and around 42% in the 1 Craft beers are growing at 77% volume and 83% value year on year off-trade against a declining market.
We are leaders in premium cask ale, with a market share of 18%, and in bottled ale with a share Select drinkers are prepared to pay an average premium of 33 pence 2 per pint of 24%.
Our wide brand portfolio is supported by high standards of service 2 Marstons Drinker Survey RBD research Sept 2012. to our customers in the independent free trade and pub sector generally, and through category knowledge and leadership including publication of The Cask Ale Report and The Premium Bottled Ale Report, which can be accessed on our website.
Innovation is critical to our future plans.
Examples of brewing TM innovation include the ground-breaking fastcask system which has enabled us to expand the market for cask ale: and the launch of our Single Hop programme, which is now in its second year and involves the creation of different flavoured beers using hops from around the world.
In 2013 we introduced our own craft beer range including Revisionist lager: Marstons Oyster Stout: and Shipyard IPA the product of an alliance with one of the largest craft brewers in the US, the Shipyard Brewing Co. from Portland, Maine.
Our marketing activity reflects the character of our brands: Marstons Pedigree is The Official Beer of England Cricket: by contrast, Hobgoblin is the Unofficial Beer of Halloween.
Regionally, we support local brands through sponsorship of events including the New Forest Show, the Henley Regatta and the Keswick Jazz Festival.
Future growth is targeted through continued developments in the off-trade: the export market: and the provision of brewing, packaging and distribution services to third parties.
14 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
