Evolution of our franchise model 4.
Focus on pub quality and support in leased pubs Our franchise model was introduced in 2009 with the principal Over the last five years, the market-wide performance of tenanted objectives of improving the consumer offer in tenanted community and leased estates has been weak.
We have separated our pubs, and improving profitability in those pubs for both Marstons leased estate from the tenanted estate and, as described above, and licensees.
Our franchise agreement, with some variations, we have clear plans to convert our tenanted pubs to the franchise now operates in around 600 pubs and has three principal benefits model or to accelerate disposals depending upon our for licensees: assessment of sustainability.
Simplicity: licensees typically earn around 20% of turnover, The performance of Marstons leased estate has consistently with no payments for rent, food or drinks, which are all been more robust than the sector generally.
The reasons for supplied by Marstons.
Licensees are thus focused on revenue this include: maximisation.
Reduced funding requirement: licensees are only required A consistent approach to setting fair, sustainable rents over to provide a refundable deposit, typically 5,000, but do not many years.
have to buy fixtures and fittings.
Transparency in dealing with licensees.
Reduced licensee risk: other than payroll costs, Marstons Assistance for licensees from good Business Development has responsibility for the cost of goods sold, operating Managers, and wide-ranging support in terms of promotions, expenses, and stock.
We ensure that these costs are cost management, advice and online facilities.
managed efficiently through using our established retail systems and our Group purchasing power.
Essential to the long-term sustainability of this segment is a high quality estate of attractive, well-located pubs capable of meeting The benefits to Marstons are clear: the post-conversion increasing consumer demand for better quality experiences, and profitability of the franchised estate is strong with which are therefore capable of attracting good, entrepreneurial 1.5 million profit growth achieved in 2013.
These are likely to be food-led rather than wet-led, and is high, at over 90%, and we receive more applicants for pubs able to compete against value-managed formats through offers operating under a franchise model than for those operating under characterised by individuality, differentiated menus, service and traditional agreements: prospective licensees clearly value the quality.
We believe our high quality leased estate offers benefits described above.
Around 30% of applications are from these characteristics.
people new to the pub sector.
We recognise that the success and sustainability of these pubs is We first introduced franchise models into pubs which were down to good lessees: we contribute with a robust appointment formerly tenanted, but in 2013 extended the model into 20 process, fair dealing and support thereafter.
The fact that we have previously managed pubs achieving positive results.
We anticipate a relatively small leased estate of less than 400 high quality pubs extending this further into the Taverns managed estate and over contributes to our ability to foster good working relationships with time expect that all Taverns community pubs will operate under our lessees.
In our view, this combines the benefits of an incentivised, entrepreneurial licensee able to act local with the control and scale benefits offered by the managed model.
In summary, we anticipate that the franchised estate will continue to grow in 2014 and that over time, all of our Taverns estate will operate under either a managed or franchise model.
Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13
