Chairmans statement It has been my privilege to be the Chairman of a company that has proved to be one of the outstanding international success stories of the last decade.
Lord MacLaurin of Knebworth, DL My last year as Chairman of Vodafone has been a watershed five continents with over 170 million proportionate customers in the history of your Company.
We have been undergoing worldwide, as well as 32 partner networks, generating turnover significant change whilst operating in the most challenging this year from our ongoing businesses of over 29 billion.
Not market environment the telecommunications sector has seen.
only have we extended our geographic reach but we have also Nevertheless, our ability to deliver good growth in the face transformed our industry by becoming a leader in innovation, of increasing competition reflects the unique characteristics introducing groundbreaking services such as Vodafone live!
of our business, compared to many other mobile operators, with 3G, thereby setting standards for the mobile industry as particularly the benefits derived from our increasing exposure a whole.
It has been a remarkable achievement.
to faster-growing markets and the opportunity to generate further benefits from our scale.
However, the Group now faces many challenges, particularly of competition, regulation and new technology.
During the We maintained strong customer growth across many of our year, we conducted, in the face of these challenges, a review markets and grew our proportionate mobile customer base of the future growth prospects for the Group and our analysis to over 170 million, representing organic growth of 15% since indicated a lower view of growth, particularly in the medium last year.
Importantly, we achieved our 10 million 3G target, to long term, and led to an impairment of the Groups goodwill which included Japan, during March, which was ahead of plan.
by 23.5 billion, the majority of which is attributable to Vodafone Germany.
This charge does not impact this years Over the year, we have announced total returns to shareholders reported cash flows or distributable reserves, out of which of 19.2 billion.
We have purchased over 4.8 billion shares in the we are making returns to shareholders.
Company at a cost of 6.5 billion and are paying out 3.7 billion in dividends for the year, including the proposed final dividend However, in this challenging market the Chief Executive of 3.87 pence per share.
We are also returning 9.0 billion to has spent a great deal of time reviewing the management shareholders, including 6.0 billion following the sale of our structure and future planning required to take the Company Japanese business.
Full details are in the documentation forward.
In April he announced his new management team accompanying this Report.
and in May they produced a clear forward-looking strategy.
I believe that through this statement the Chief Executive sets When I became Chairman in July 1998 we had fewer out a clear vision for the future.
I congratulate him on these than 6 million customers in 12 countries producing some changes and wish him and his impressive team well.
In the summer of 1999, we acquired AirTouch of the US, followed in 2000 by the acquisition It has been my privilege to be the Chairman of a company that of Mannesmann in Germany.
This was a period of huge has proved to be one of the outstanding international success expansion which formed the basis of the transformation of stories of the last decade.
The development and expansion of Vodafone into the worlds leading mobile telecommunications the Group has been made possible by the excellence of the group that has equity interests in 26 countries across management team whose flair and vision has enabled us to 2 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Number of customers 1998-2006 millions 1998 5.8 2006 170.6 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 Revenue 1998-2006 Number of markets 1998-2006 bn 1998 2.5 1998 29.4 2006 2006 26 0 5 1015202530 0 5 1015202530 Number of Partner Networks at 31 March 2006: 32 identify international opportunities for profitable growth During the year, we welcomed two new non-executive while at the same time introducing technological advances directors to the Board.
In September, Philip Yea, Chief to enhance the mobile experience for our customers.
Executive Officer of 3i Group plc, was appointed and he was joined in November by Anne Lauvergeon, the Chairman of It was announced earlier this year that Sir Julian Horn-Smith had the Executive Board of AREVA, the leading French energy decided to retire from the Board following the Annual General company.
On 1 May, we welcomed Anthony Watson to the Meeting in July.
Julian has been with Vodafone for 22 years and Board.
Until his recent retirement, he was Chief Executive a Board member for 10 years.
He has had an outstanding career, of Hermes Pensions Management Limited.
I know that their being a major contributor to the creation of the UK network and collective experience in their different areas of business will subsequently leading the early development of our international be of great benefit to the Company.
More recently he was Group Chief Operating Officer and then Deputy Chief Executive, with responsibility for our Finally I come to my own retirement.
As I have said, it has affiliates and business development.
I am sure all shareholders been a great privilege for me to have been Chairman of a will join with me in wishing him well for the future.
I have, however, been particularly saddened this year by the nature of some of Peter Bamford, Chief Marketing Officer, who left the Company the media coverage and particularly by the suggestion of in early April, was instrumental in developing our brand both boardroom splits.
There are no factions within the Board and within the UK and internationally and developing a number any claim that your Board is not united is unfounded.
I leave of major initiatives, including the launch of Vodafone live!
with with the knowledge that Vodafone, which is now very different 3G.
I wish him well and thank him for his contribution to the to the company which I first chaired, is well placed to continue success of the Company.
to enjoy an exciting and profitable future.
I wish Sir John Bond, my successor, Arun Sarin, your Chief Executive, and everyone At the AGM, we say farewell to Paul Hazen, our Deputy at Vodafone the very best for the future and thank you all for Chairman, who has served with distinction as a non-executive your support during the last eight years as your Chairman.
We also say goodbye to Penny Hughes, a fine non-executive director for eight years and who was an exceptional Remuneration Committee Chair for five years.
Her contribution cannot be overstated.
Paul and Penny leave with our best wishes.
Taking Pauls place as Deputy Chairman and senior independent director will be John Buchanan, who has been a non-executive director since April 2003, shortly after his retirement from BP p. l. c. I am sure that John Lord MacLaurin of Knebworth, DL will discharge his new duties very effectively.
Chairman Vodafone Group Plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 3 12
