Dear Shareholder BPs performance in 006 can be best concluded that BP had fallen short in its approach to process described as mixed.
A great portfolio of assets and excellent safety at its five US refineries.
It made a number of people who are executing a consistent strategy remained as recommendations, all of which we have considered and our core strength.
However, results could and should have will implement.
One recommendation was that the board, been better.
The ability to benefit from higher oil prices was for at least five years, should engage an outside expert, impaired by some of our major assets not being available.
independent of the executive, to report to it on the progress For many years, BP has been a greatly admired group, of the implementation of the panels recommendations.
reflecting its strategic vision, determined execution and high Your board will keep you fully advised on the implementation aspirations in areas such as safety, the environment and the of those recommendations to which we, and the groups community and I believe it still is.
However, a number of executives and employees, are fully committed.
Indeed, we events in the US, starting with the tragic incident at the Texas have long had a tradition of emphasizing safety and, in nearly City refinery in March 005, have deeply shocked the group, 0 years of reporting, we have seen a significant improvement led to increased public scrutiny and had an effect on BPs in our safety performance.
We must ensure that the It is important to stress that we have a clear strategy and lessons we have learned will enable us to demonstrate rapidly an underlying business that remains robust.
BP has a set of that we are again in the forefront of our industry in all respects.
world-class assets that will ensure the continued success of Our aspirations remain unchanged and, in the vast majority the group into the medium term.
Our cash flow has remained of our activities, we continue to be justly proud of our safety strong during the year.
The board has therefore been able record, our environmental initiatives and our high ethical to continue its policy of returning value to our shareholders standards.
However, it is quite clear to your board that the through both increased dividends and buybacks.
I am pleased groups record in some areas has not met the standards to confirm a dividend, to be paid in March, of 10.3 5 cents per to which we aspire.
Above all, we must ensure that, at all share.
The annual dividend paid of 38.40 cents or 1.104 pence locations, those who work for us do so safely.
represents an increase of 10% in both dollar and sterling The boards governance system has long balanced support terms.
During 006, we repurchased some $15.5 billion for the executive team in the development of the groups of shares.
Of these, 7% were for cancellation and the strategy with the need to ensure effective monitoring of its remainder placed in treasury.
Your board will continue to implementation.
In this context, both the full board and its keep its distribution policy under review.
committees have considered the significant events of the I would like to pay tribute to John Browne, his executive year and their impact on BPs business and reputation.
team and all our employees for their contributions to the The work of each of the committees is described in more creation and maintenance of a robust, cash-generative detail in the governance: board performance report on pages business.
It has been a major task for the executive team 36-43 of Notice of BP Annual General Meeting 2007 and also to respond to the pressing issues of 006 while diligently on pages 76-8 of BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006. managing and guiding the business forward in a challenging The safety, ethics and environment assurance committee, market.
Although oil prices have remained high, we are in a chaired by Dr Walter Massey, has played a particularly softening market and prices are some way from their peak: important role during the year.
The audit committee, chaired costs of capital equipment and services, however, have risen by Sir Ian Prosser, has similarly had important work.
confident in the work of all the committees and our overall This year, the board, like many companies whose shares system of governance.
are traded on both sides of the Atlantic, has streamlined the There have been a number of inquiries into the events at companys reporting process by using a common document Texas City and other aspects of the groups operations.
In as the basis for both our Annual Report and Accounts and particular, on the recommendation of the US Chemical Safety our Annual Report on Form 0-F. As a result, the Annual and Hazard Investigation Board, which was investigating the Report and Accounts now contains information that, in the Texas City incident, an independent panel was commissioned past, would only have appeared in our US reporting.
The by BP to examine the safety culture of our US refineries.
The short-form Annual Review continues to give a summary panel was chaired by former US Secretary of State James A of the groups operations for the majority of our private Baker, III and reported to us in early January.
We will keep our reporting process under while the focus of the group had been on personal safety review, including a greater use of electronic communication performance, where significant improvement had been wherever we are able to do so.
achieved, there was insufficient emphasis on process safety.
In the summer of 006, John and I agreed that he would The panel further found that, by concentrating on improving stay as chief executive until the end of 008.
Early in 007, personal safety statistics, the group had developed a false we both decided that it would be in the groups interest to sense of confidence in its safety culture.
In essence, the panel name a successor in order to provide a short orderly transition Chairmans letter BP Annual Review 006 over a period of six months.
The chairmans committee was in John Bryan will stand down at the forthcoming AGM.
John a position to identify a succession candidate in Tony Hayward, also joined the BP board at the time of the Amoco merger then chief executive of the exploration and production and has made significant contributions to both the audit and segment.
Accordingly, John will retire on 31 July 007 and remuneration committees.
His experience as a former CEO Tony has been appointed by the board to succeed him.
in the US has been invaluable to the board over the years.
Tony has had an outstanding career at BP and the board We shall miss his contribution at the board and his believes he has the intellect, skills and personal qualities to take commitment to board and committee work.
your company through the coming challenges and changes.
I was pleased to welcome Sir William Castell as a new John Browne is one of the great businessmen of his non-executive director in July.
Bill is chairman of the board of generation and has led the transformation of BP into one of governors of the Wellcome Trust and is a non-executive director the biggest energy groups in the world.
His performance over of the General Electric Company, having been chief executive the past 1 years has been extraordinary.
He has consistently of Amersham plc and subsequently president and chief been identified by his fellow chief executives as the most executive officer of GE Healthcare.
Bill is a member of the impressive businessman in Britain.
chairmans, the audit and the safety, ethics and environment I would like to thank John on behalf of the board for his assurance committees.
great achievement in leading the transformation of BP from I believe that the board has the right mix of skills and a mid-ranking regional oil company to what it is today.
experience to address the issues that we face.
I will keep this Following Tony Haywards appointment as group chief under review as we refresh the board over time.
There remain executive designate, Tony has passed his responsibilities as significant challenges for the group in securing its business into chief executive of exploration and production to Andy Inglis, the medium and the longer term.
The board will be focusing on who was appointed to the board on 1 February 007.
Andy these in the coming year.
On behalf of the board, I would like was previously deputy chief executive of exploration and to thank you for your support.
production and has held a number of posts in that segment during his career with the group, which started in 1980.
Michael Wilson stood down as a director last year to take up the post of Canadas ambassador to Washington.
He had joined the BP board in 1998 at the time of the Amoco merger after a distinguished political and business career.
He had a keen interest in corporate governance matters, being the chairman of the Canadian Coalition of Good Governance.
He had brought Peter Sutherland all these strengths from his political and business background Chairman to our board and committee deliberations.
