CHAIRMANS STATEMENT DESPITE A CHALLENGING ENVIRONMENT, STRONG SALES GROWTH OF OUR MAJOR PRODUCTS, PARTICULARLY OUTSIDE EUROPE, COUPLED WITH OUR DETERMINED PURSUIT OF PRODUCTIVITY GAINS HAS DELIVERED ANOTHER OUTSTANDING FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE.
There were a number of changes to the Non-Executive composition of the Board during the year.
Professor Dame Nancy Rothwell was elected at the 2006 AGM.
Dame Nancy is currently Vice President for Research at the University of Manchester in the UK and as one of the leading scientists of her generation she brings a valuable perspective to our discussions.
John Varley, Group Chief Executive of Barclays Bank plc, In 2006, Group sales totalled $26.5 billion The Board conducted its annual formal was appointed to the Board in July, and his up 11% with an operating pro t of strategy review and reinforced our extensive commercial and financial expertise $8.2 billion up 28%.
Our R&D investment commitment to the delivery of sustained is already bringing considerable bene t to our increased this year in absolute terms and as revenue growth through an R&D model that work.
John has joined the Remuneration a percentage of sales from $3.4 billion to delivers new science and innovative products Committee and he will become Chairman of $3.9 billion, re ecting our rm commitment through in-house capabilities and external that Committee when Sir Peter Bon eld steps to building the platform for future growth.
down from the Board at the 2007 AGM.
At That investment is focused on life-cycle The strategy review gave full consideration that time it is also intended that Michele management of our key marketed products, to overall global trends of continued growth Hooper, who has been a Non-Executive developing new products with an emphasis in demand for improved healthcare: an Director of AstraZeneca PLC since 2003, will on ef ciency and effectiveness improvements, ageing population, undiagnosed and unmet become the Senior Independent Director in and intelligent acquisition and licensing of medical needs: economic development in succession to Sir Peter.
Dame Bridget Ogilvie, products and technologies that will emerging markets: sustained downward FRS retired at the 2006 AGM after over nine supplement our internal efforts.
Major pressure on prices for medicines and everyears service as a Non-Executive Director, investments were also announced during more demanding regulatory requirements.
and I would like to thank her warmly on behalf the year in new R&D facilities that will support of the Board for her sustained contribution to this strategy, notably in the UK and China.
David Brennan has completed his first year both AstraZeneca and, before that, Zeneca.
as our Chief Executive Of cer, and you will Whilst AstraZenecas share price uctuated see his review of AstraZenecas performance In 2007, we will strive to continue to meet the during the year, earnings per share grew by during that period, the strategic direction needs of patients, reward shareholders and 34% from $2.91 in 2005 to $3.86 in 2006. and his vision for the future in the following bene t wider society by strengthening our This re ects the strong growth from our section of this report.
With his distinctive pipeline, driving top-line sales growth and products and careful management of our leadership style and strong focus on making further productivity improvements, costs.
The Board has recommended a individual accountabilities at all levels within as well as understanding and in uencing the second interim dividend of $1.23 63.0 pence, the Company, he has been quick to make changing business environment in which we SEK 8.60 per Ordinary Share bringing the his mark.
I thank him, his colleagues on the and our stakeholders operate.
You can hear total dividend for the year to $1.72 89.6 Senior Executive Team and all our employees, more about the Companys strategy from pence, SEK 12.20, an increase of 32%.
including those who have recently joined David Brennan in the section that follows.
The buy-back programmes approved by our the AstraZeneca family through acquisition, David and his management team have my shareholders at our Annual General Meeting for their contribution this year.
and the Boards unquali ed support for the AGM, under which we return cash to steps they are taking to address the challenges shareholders in excess of our anticipated In addition to its review of strategy, the Board that AstraZeneca and our industry are facing.
requirements for future investment, amounted as part of its regular cycle of meetings also to $4,147 million in 2006.
We are targeting conducted financial and business reviews net share re-purchases for 2007 of $4 billion.
as well as functional reviews, which this year paid particular attention to risk assessment, On page 40 we report on our total compliance, human resources, and safety, shareholder return relative to the FTSE 100 health and environmental issues.
More about and to a group of our industry peers.
these issues is provided elsewhere in this LOUIS SCHWEITZER CHAIRMAN report and also in the Corporate Responsibility Summary Report 2006.
