21 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Corporate governance Chairmans Q&A All UK listed companies are required to make disclosures in relation to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Sir Roy Gardner discusses what steps he has taken to improve the Groups corporate governance since becoming Chairman.
Sir Roy Gardner Chairman Q In addition to strengthening the corporate Q The first principle of the Combined Code governance controls my priority this year has A key aspect of corporate governance is the concerns the need for an effective board.
been to ensure that we have a strategy that will means by which a board satisfies itself that How does the Compass Group Board apply deliver enhanced shareholder value.
My role in a companys financial controls and systems of this principle?
strategy development is to probe and challenge risk management are robust and defensible the executive team.
I do this by utilising the and that financial information is accurate and A experience and knowledge that different can be relied on.
How does Compass Group The Board is ultimately responsible for the good directors bring to the Board.
The directors accept that we are collectively responsible for Now that the strategy is in place the Board and I A its success.
will regularly review how it is being implemented The Board has overall responsibility for the by the Chief Executive and his team.
system of internal controls maintained by This is a large business operating across the the Group.
The Audit Committee, acting on globe.
It is vital that we have clear lines of sight Succession planning is also a key responsibility behalf of the Board, is responsible for regularly so that we can discharge our duties effectively.
It is vital that we have a reviewing their effectiveness.
The Chairman We have in place a framework to enable us to strong Board but also a pool of talented of the Audit Committee reports to the Board exercise control whilst delegating day-to-day managers that one day will be candidates for on the Committees activities on a regular basis.
decision making to those running the business.
positions at the highest levels in the Group.
Each year the Board has a separate session I have taken a number of decisive steps to Finally I also play a role in shareholder reviewing key risks and the actions being taken improve corporate governance.
Investor Relations is the to mitigate and manage them.
put in place more robust centralised controls.
responsibility of the Group Chief Executive This gives the Board better visibility as to and Finance Director.
However, as Chairman This year the Board has conducted a review of the performance of the Group.
But the I maintain contact with the Groups major the effectiveness of internal controls.
We have entrepreneurial flair that is essential to shareholders.
I need to know that they are made a number of changes to make them more improve profitability and shareholder value happy with the performance of the business.
robust and to improve the Boards visibility of has not been stifled.
I also need to be in a position to keep the the performance of the business.
More detailed Board informed of their views.
information on the Groups internal controls is In addition to the Nomination, Audit and contained in the corporate governance report Remuneration Committees, I have established a Q on page 24.
Its terms There have been a number of changes to the of reference are to look at all aspects of business membership of the Board this year.
What do I have established a Corporate Responsibility conduct, safety, health and environmental these changes mean to the effectiveness of the Committee.
As part of its remit it is responsible management and responsible business practice.
for ensuring compliance with our Code of Ethics and investigates all issues in relation The effectiveness of the Board comes from us A to business conduct.
We have introduced focusing on the things that really matter.
Having The overriding priority for the Nomination confidential Speak Up lines covering 86% of absolute clarity as to the distinct roles of the Committee was the appointment of a new the business to enable employees to raise any Board and the executive management is vital.
Our requirement concerns or alleged breaches of the Code.
was for an individual with a combination of Q business transformation skills, international The Combined Code principles also deal experience and a strong track record of creating with the role of the board chairman.
We have found this How do you see your role?
A The composition of the Board is also evolving.
My key responsibility is to lead the Board and It is vital that the independent non-executive make sure that it is doing its job effectively.
directors and executive directors have the skills and experience that reflect the needs of the business.
The appointment of Sir Ian Robinson and Gary Green has begun the process of reinvigoration.
