Annual Report and Accounts 2006 3 Hays plc Chief Executives Letter to Shareholders economy in the United Kingdom as GDP growth was at its lowest since 1992 at The proportion of business from our 1.7%.
As a consequence of our caution, International Division has increased from we decided not to invest last year in either additional net recruitment the 16% of net fees that it represented consultant headcount or significant new three years ago to the 30% of net fees ofce openings.
On the basis of the current market conditions in the United that we have achieved this year.
Kingdom we are now selectively adding recruitment consultant headcount within the business and new ofce and business unit openings.
In contrast, our businesses in Australia & New Zealand have benefited signicantly from a number of years of sustained strong economic growth.
In Continental Europe, the economic environment has a less obvious impact on our businesses as the specialist recruitment markets in which we operate are signicantly less developed.
The major specialist activities, Accountancy & Finance, Construction & Property and Information Technology in the United Kingdom and Ireland, Denis Waxman, Chief Executive produced a moderate performance and actions are being taken to improve the performances of these businesses.
The success of the smaller specialist activities such as Human Resources, Legal, Purchasing and Sales & Marketing, The Group has once again delivered has demonstrated the strong growth a strong set of results producing sustained fee and profit growth.
In Hays, as in all large businesses, there is always a mixture of performance within We have continued the operations.
This has been the case to expand our this year with the performance of the United Kingdom & Ireland, which has international footprint not produced the levels of growth that by opening 19 new we would have liked.
In contrast however, we have seen continued ofces and entering excellent net fee growth and profit Italy, the United Arab generation within our international businesses, to the extent that 30% of Emirates and China.
our total net fees are now derived from our expanding international operations.
Our strategy to increase the proportion prospects in these activities and we of business from our International will continue to expand these specialist Division has increased from the 16% of activities across our extensive network net fees that it represented three years in the United Kingdom & Ireland.
ago to the 30% of net fees that we During the year we entered the have achieved this year and we fully healthcare and social care specialist intend for this trend to continue.
recruitment markets with the acquisition The performance of our business of the Recruitment Solutions Group.
has always had a close relationship and The business is based in the United dependence on the underlying growth Kingdom and provides qualied skilled of the countries economies in which we professionals such as consultant grade operate.
Twelve months ago we were doctors, therapists and social workers in uncertain about the outlook for the temporary, contract and permanent roles Growth of our international business net fees 03 292.0m 84% 55.6m 16% 04 315.5m 78% 89.2m 22% 05 354.7m 75% 115.9m 25% 378.4m 70% 159.8m 30% 06 United Kingdom & Ireland International 4 Hays plc www.
com Chief Executives Letter to Shareholders continued in the healthcare and social care sectors.
driven to provide both clients and 4,062 Recruitment We are pleased that the highly candidates with a quality based consultants experienced management team have recruitment service.
We prefer to back remained with the business to develop our own staff to grow our business, market-leading positions and we now offer them a range of opportunities have the opportunity to extend our across the Group and develop a long 10% service offering to existing NHS and and successful career with Hays.
Our local authority clients and to expand international training programme both healthcare and social care services has continued to ensure that the 824 Business units across the extensive Hays ofce network.
successful culture of Hays is also Our Asia Pacic region now taken to each of the new countries includes our market-leading operations that we are now operating in.
in Australia & New Zealand, the newly We now have 824 business 14% opened Hays Hong Kong ofce and units operating from 352 ofces in now, the second acquisition completed 20 countries.
As we enter the new this year, St. Georges Harvey Nash.
The financial year we have continued our 352 Ofces business, which has a complementary investment in recruitment consultants, Hong Kong search business to our own, new ofces and the roll out of specialist also has ofces in Shanghai, Shenzhen activities across our network.
Our 8% and Guangzhou in mainland China.
This continuing investment both in the small acquisition gives Hays a quality United Kingdom and in our International platform to take advantage of the fast Division should give a strong indication growing specialist recruitment market of our confidence in the future.
The performance of our business in Australia & New Zealand has once again been excellent.
There were strong performances within each of our specialist activities and across all states.
Denis Waxman Chief Executive Our continuing investment both in the United Kingdom and in our International Division should give a strong indication of our confidence in the future.
Continental Europe & Canada is a good example of how we have used both acquisitions and organic start-ups to quickly grow the business.
After the success of our acquisition in Germany three years ago, the entire growth in that region has been achieved organically, by opening new ofces, expansion into new countries and the import of new specialist activities from the United Kingdom.
The strong growth this year in Continental Europe & Canada shows that we are reaping the rewards of both our focused strategy and sustained investment.
The markets that we operate in, are now evolving their use of specialist recruitment services and employers are starting to fully utilise exible labour resource facilitated by the pace of legislative change.
We see significant growth prospects and will continue our investment in order to fully develop these opportunities.
One of the unique characteristics of Hays is the team of individuals who make the business what it is today.
Our team are first-class individuals, who are committed, motivated, professional and
