ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Another strong year for the Group with record pro ts and laying the foundation for signi cant future growth.
2006 was another strong year for Anglo American.
The Group returned record pro ts and laid the foundations for further growth.
A number of major projects were initiated, adding to the strength of the pipeline and a $7.5 billion return of capital was announced in 2006, underlining the Groups strong balance sheet Progress was made in delivering Tony Trahar has made a on our strategy of becoming a pivotal contribution to Anglo more focused mining group.
Americans growth and A number of the steps required development at a crucial time to complete the restructuring in its history.
Over the last involve complex regulatory seven years he has presided issues but I am con dent that over a major streamlining of the these will be successfully Groups interests, including managed and substantive through a signi cant programme further progress made by the of acquisitions and disposals.
Moreover, through some shrewd acquisitions, organic growth An important development opportunities and improved will be the appointment of cost control, shareholder Cynthia Carroll, who will succeed returns have been signi cantly Tony Trahar as chief executive improved.
The Board Company in good health and was seeking a candidate with poised for a new phase in its experience in a capital intensive development.
The Board industry with long investment is grateful to him for his horizons.
It identi ed three contribution over many years that the intensive training drive signi cantly during 2006 critical factors: a track record of with the Group.
undertaken at all management amongst policy makers and operational excellence and of and supervisory levels during the public.
Business must growing a global business: an The first three quarters of 2006 the year to embed the Anglo play its part in driving more ability to give new momentum saw a signi cant improvement Safety Way will yield results ef cient energy use and in the to our work in transforming the in our safety performance in 2007.
Some 20 sites have adoption of new technologies.
culture of the Group, within South but the record once again undertaken safety peer reviews.
However, this involves Africa and beyond: and an ability deteriorated in the final quarter.
The lessons emerging from substantial long term investment to work well with governments Despite the strong focus on these will be acted upon across and greater certainty about the and other stakeholders.
Cynthia safety during the year only the Group.
post Kyoto policy framework is Carroll met these criteria a small improvement in the urgently needed.
She was the number of fatalities was Perceptions of the need for unanimous choice of the Board achieved and much remains a more energetic response In the interim, Anglo American after a very rigorous process.
The Board expects to climate change grew is continuing to improve its 02 | Anglo American plc Annual Review 2006 See also Meeting our wider responsibilities p22 Financial review p14 The business p34 At a glance The Group achieved record pro ts and laid the foundations for further growth Progress was made in delivering on our strategy of becoming a more focused mining group Cynthia Carroll appointed as successor to Tony Trahar Evolving strategies to combat climate change with major programmes in IN DETAIL South Africa and Chile and Our performance implementation of our SocioEconomic Assessment Toolbox SEAT process, which has taken place at over 50 sites in 15 countries.
Anglo Americans share price outperforms the FTSE 100 At an international level, we were during 2006 the first private sector investor in the Investment Climate Anglo American vs FTSE 100 Facility for Africa, have played a 2006 Indexed leading role in the mining sector Anglo American in the Extractive Industries FTSE 100 130 Transparency Initiative and 120 participated in programmes 110 on business and development 100 through the International 90 Council on Mining & Metals and 31 12 05 31 12 06 the World Business Council for Sustainable Development.
We see action to improve the Anglo Americans lost time and management of our impacts fatal injury frequency rates and to contribute to good governance as fundamental LTIFR and FIFR to our licence to operate and LTIFR FIFR access to resources.
2.5 0.04 2.0 0.03 Many commentators expect 1.5 to see some softening of 0.02 1.0 commodity prices, and 0.01 0.5 especially of base metals, in 0 0 2007 compared with the highs 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 achieved in 2006.
Nonetheless, prices are likely to continue to energy ef ciency with hundreds Australias diesel requirements be relatively high for the of site level initiatives.
We have as well as a major investment immediate future, underpinned established two methane in carbon capture and storage.
by demand from the BRIC capture and use projects in We are also participating in the economies and the anticipated Australia which between them FutureGen project to achieve strength of the world economy.
are achieving greenhouse gas near zero emissions power savings equivalent to removing generation from coal.
Also in Australia, we are We have continued to work on pursuing the Monash Energy projects designed to improve project through a new joint our ability to contribute to venture with Shell.
If it proves sustainable development.
At feasible, Monash would produce a local level this involves, for Sir Mark Moody-Stuart a signi cant amount of example, business development Chairman Anglo American plc Annual Review 2006 | 03
