Business Review The first phase in AstraZenecas strategy focused on strengthening and accelerating our pipeline.
In the second phase, it was on driving our Growth Platforms and launching new products.
Following our return to Product Sales growth, our focus is now on delivering sustainable growth through innovation.
In this Business Review, we report on 1.
Achieve Scientific Leadership how the elements of our business are 2.
Return to Growth delivering against our strategic priorities 3.
Be a Great Place to Work which are to: Our operating model includes our Research & areas.
We want AstraZeneca to be more agile, Development R&D, Commercial and Operations collaborative and focused on bringing innovative functions, together with our Enabling Units.
It is medicines to patients.
The functions will share many common areas, In January 2019, we announced organisational including basic biology and science platforms changes to support continued scientific innovation aswell as medicine supply, manufacturing and and commercial success as we enter the next phase in IT infrastructure to improve efficiency.
The changes are designed resources will continue to be allocated on a to further integrate R&D and accelerate decision Group-wide basis, according to the overall making and the launches of new medicines, therapy-area considerations and strategy.
consolidating what we believe is already one of the most exciting and productive pipelines in the industry.
Since 2007, we have made significant efforts to restructure and reshape our business to control We are also enhancing our commercial functions to costs and improve long-term competitiveness.
increase collaboration with our R&D organisation, F ull details are provided in the Financial Review from page 74. enabling greater commitment to our main therapy Research & Development Our R&D activities focus on three strategic R&D From January 2019, we are creating therapy centres: Gaithersburg, MD, US: Gothenburg, area-focused R&D units that are responsible for Sweden: and Cambridge, UK, which is also our discovery through to late-stage development one global HQ.
for BioPharmaceuticals CVRM and Respiratory and one for Oncology.
This is designed to enable In 2018, we managed our R&D activities with two us to follow the science by accelerating promising discovery and early-stage biotech units early-stage assets and life-cycle management Innovative Medicines and Early Development, programmes, as well as providing new and MedImmune and one late-stage development opportunities for combinations.
unit Global Medicines Development GMD.
Operations Our Operations function plays a key role in development, manufacturing, testing and delivery of our medicines to our customers.
Commercial In 2018, our sales and marketing functions were undertaken by our Global Product and Portfolio grouped into regions: North America USand Strategy group GPPS, and commercial delivery Canada : Europe: and International Emerging across CVRM and Respiratory in the US and Markets, including China, and Australia and Europe.
These responsibilities mirror the Oncology New Zealand.
Business Unit, formed in April 2017, and sharpen our focus on our main therapy areas aswe bring From January 2019, we are creating two commercial new medicines to patients.
The International units one for BioPharmaceuticals and one for commercial organisation remains unchanged Oncology.
The creation of the BioPharmaceuticals andJapan is categorised separately, being one commercial unit aligns product strategy, previously ofour Growth Platforms.
Enabling Units Finance, Human Resources, Legal, Sustainability, Information Technology.
24 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report 1.
Achieve Scientific Leadership Early science Institutet in Sweden and the CRUK Cancer During 2018, both IMED and MedImmune Institute in Cambridge.
In 2018, we extended We are using our distinctive scientific worked to strengthen our early-stage product our joint research facility at the Max Planck capabilities, as well as investing in portfolio by exploring novel biology across Institute to include the Chemical Genomics key programmes and focused ourdisease areas and developing the best Centre III, focused on novel basic research business development, to deliver a molecules to address unmet medical need.
inthe biosciences and chemical biology.
The diversity of technologies applied in our Withthe Swedish Innovation Bridge Company pipeline of life-changing medicines.
early pipeline is exemplified by the increased SWIBCo, we established a partnership number of new modalities entering clinical withProcella Therapeutics and Smartwise Overview development: 12 in 2018 compared to six in todevelop novel stem cell-based therapies During 2018, we had: 2012.
For example, our collaboration with forheart failure.
The Blue-Sky fund we 23 approvals of NMEs or major LCM Moderna is exploring the use of modified established with the MRC Laboratory of projects in major markets ribonucleic acid mRNA for cardiac Molecular Biology LMB is now in its fourth 13 Oncology approvals for Imfinzi, regeneration in patients undergoing coronary year of funding projects which involve 40% of Lumoxiti, Lynparza and Tagrisso artery bypass graft surgery AZD8601 as well LMBs Principal Investigators.
A recent project 6 CVRM approvals for Bydureon, as an additional programme where we are breakthrough uncovered the first protein Bydureon BCise, Lokelma and evaluating anti-cancer T cell responses with structures for human ataxia telangiectasia roxadustat mRNA therapies in patients with solid tumours.
mutated ATM, a key trigger protein in the 3 Respiratory approvals for Bevespi With Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. we are DNA damage response DDR and a prime and Fasenra investigating an antisense oligonucleotide in therapeutic target in cancer.
In 2018, we 1 Other approval for Nexium immuno-oncology danvatersin, in combination announced a collaboration to develop and 28 NME or major LCM regulatory with Imfinzi.
With Pieris Pharmaceuticals, commercialise a gene therapeutic for patients submissions in major markets AZD1402 entered clinical development in 2018 with chronic lung disease, utilising 4D 19 Phase III NME investment decisions as a novel inhaled drug for asthma based Molecular Therapeutics novel discovery 9 Phase II starts on its proprietary bicyclic peptide platform.
platform to generate optimised adenoAccelerated reviews included In addition, we continue evaluation of our associated virus AAV vectors.
We also 1 Breakthrough Therapy designation DNA-based cancer vaccine targeting HPV-16 continue to advance our strategic research 3 Orphan Drug designations and HPV-18 MEDI0457 in collaboration with collaboration with Ethris GmbH where we 3 Priority Review designations Inovio Pharmaceuticals, Inc. areevaluating mRNA-based therapies in 18 projects discontinued pulmonary diseases.
Since 2014, we have had 26 diagnostic tests approved in the US, EU and Japan.
They Innovating in drug discovery Scientific leadership and collaboration support four precision medicines for patients We are also exploring emerging technologies AstraZenecas Purpose is to push the with some of the most challenging diseases of to accelerate the design and testing of boundaries of science to deliver life-changing our time, including three for lung and ovarian tomorrows medicines.
It underpins everything we do.
cancers: therapies that target the epidermal intelligence AI is being used increasingly in However, as we seek to achieve scientific growth factor receptor EGFR, including the the pharmaceutical sector building on the leadership, we know that we cannot do T790M resistance mutation: the poly ADP emergence of novel computing technologies, soalone.
We want the way we work to be ribose polymerase PARP pathway: and the the exponential increase in data and deep inclusive, open and collaborative.
We believe programmed death-ligand PD-L1 pathway.
Our teams are looking our operating model gives us access to the Approximately 90% of our pipeline now has across the discovery and development best science, both internal and external, and aprecision medicine approach and reflects process, from target identification to clinical we are open to exploring new and different the broad range of cutting-edge technologies, trials, to understand where we can harness kinds of collaborations.
tissue diagnostics, next-generation new technologies and further automate sequencing and point of care diagnostics processes, freeing up more time for One of the measures of our success wehave introduced.
discovering and delivering as many new inachieving scientific leadership and medicine programmes as we can from our demonstrating the quality of research F or more information, see Therapy Area Review from pipeline.
In Drug Discovery, our teams are conducted in our laboratories is the number of page 50. facilitating rapid, unbiased drug design and publications in high-quality and high-impact speeding up compound synthesis through journals.
It is also critical for recruiting and improvements in AI algorithmic processes.
Transforming medical science retaining the best scientists from around the Inthe previous two years, our scientists We are determined to advance our world.
Scientists from IMED, MedImmune and havepublished more than 20 scientific understanding of disease biology to uncover GMD have published 102 manuscripts up by publications showing improvements in novel drivers for the diseases we aim to treat, 20 compared with 2017, a record number in algorithmic processes in drug design.
We aim to foster an high-impact peer-reviewed journals, each arealso collaborating with the University of environment where our scientists can freely with an impact factor exceeding 15 Thomson Bern and University of Bonn in ExCAPE, an share their ideas and collaborate with the best Reuters 5yr IF score and a score exceeding EC-funded project that harvests the power of external partners.
Our approach to science is 955 in total.
This represents a fourteen-fold supercomputers to speed up drug discovery exemplified by the number of joint research improvement since 2012. using machine learning.
Through the facilities we have established with leading acquisition of Definiens in 2014, we are scientific centres, such as the Karolinska AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Business Review 25 Business Review Achieve Scientific Leadership continued developing new AI approaches to evaluate Life-cycle management Accelerating the pipeline complex morphology, such as in the tumour We also drive an extensive life-cycle GMD is prioritising its investment in specific microenvironment.
In Early Development, we management programme for alreadyprogrammes to accelerate them so that new are starting to connect high-density datasets, approved medicines to pursue further treatments get to patients more quickly but from imaging, biosensors, multiomics and indications and label updates to expand still safely.
As a result, we had numerous quality-of-life information, to inform earlier thepotential for our products to help more study read-outs in 2018, including Lynparza decision making in clinical trials.
For example, this year we made in1st line BRCA-mutated advanced ovarian publication in Lancet Respiratory Medicine, regulatory submissions for Lynparza in the cancer SOLO-1, Imfinzi OS results in we describe a novel modelling tool that has EUto extend treatment into breast cancer: unresectable stage 3 NSCLC, the Farxiga thepotential to reduce the time of Phase II Farxiga for type-1 diabetes in the US, EU cardiovascular outcomes trial in adults with trialsin respiratory by half.
andJapan: and saxagliptin dapagliflozin type-2 diabetes DECLARE and the Fasenra metformin for type-2 diabetes in the US and Phase III extension trial evaluating long-term Late-stage development EU.
We also secured approvals for important safety and efficacy BORA.
Our teams have During 2018, GMD delivered clinical trial data life-cycle programmes such as Imfinzi in the also been quick to turn positive clinical trial and submissions that resulted in 23 approvals US, EU and Japan for 1st line treatment of data into regulatory submissions.
In 2018, we for new medicines in the US, EU, China and stage 3 NSCLC: Lynparza for BRCA-mutated made submissions in the US, EU, Japan and Japan.
As shown in the table opposite, our metastatic breast cancer in the US and Japan: China for Lynparza for 1st line maintenance pipeline includes 149 projects, of which 131 Lynparza for platinum-sensitive relapsed treatment for advanced BRCA-mutated are in the clinical phase of development, ovarian cancer in the EU, China and Japan: ovarian cancer, and Bevespi for Chronic andwe are making significant progress in Tagrisso for 1st line treatment of EGFR Obstructive Pulmonary Diseases COPD in advancing our late-stage programmes through mutated NSCLC: and Bydureon BCise, a the EU, Japan and China.
We also received regulatory approval with 28 NME or major newformulation of once-weekly Bydureon approval in the US and EU for Lokelma for the LCMregulatory submissions during 2018. inasingle-dose, pen-filled device.
treatment of adults with hyperkalaemia, Lumoxiti in the US for the treatment of adults At the end of the year, we had eight NME R&D resources with relapsed or refractory hairy cell projects in pivotal studies or under regulatory We have approximately 8,900 employees in leukaemia HCL, roxadustat for the treatment review covering 15 indications, compared ourR&D organisation, working in various sites of anaemia in Chronic Kidney Disease CKD with 11 at the end of 2017. around the world.
We have three strategic R&D in China, Fasenra for severe asthma in the EU centres: Cambridge, UK: Gaithersburg, MD, and Japan, and US approval for Lynparza for Also in 2018, 20 NMEs progressed to their US: and Gothenburg, Sweden.
Other R&D 1st line maintenance treatment for advanced next phase of development and 18 projects centres are located in the UK Alderley Park BRCA-mutated ovarian cancer.
were discontinued: 15 for poorer than andMacclesfield, the US Waltham, MA and anticipated safety and efficacy results: California, Japan Osaka and China Shanghai.
In 2018, we presented scientific rationale that andthree as a result of a strategic shift in We also have a site in Poland Warsaw that resulted in four regulatory designations for theenvironment or portfolio prioritisation.
Breakthrough Therapy or Priority Review for new medicines which offer the potential As is to be expected when we are In 2018, R&D expenditure was $5,932 million to address unmet medical need in certain investigating treatments for diseases that 2017: $5,757 million: 2016: $5,890 million, diseases, including tezepelumab in patients arehard to treat, we also had some setbacks including Core R&D costs of $5,266 million with severe asthma, Lynparza for ovarian during the year.
These included disappointing 2017: $5,412 million: 2016: $5,631 million.
cancer SOLO-1, Tagrisso in 1st line EGFR Phase III data results.
For example, the results Inaddition, we spent $476 million on acquiring mutated NSCLC FLAURA and Lumoxiti of the MYSTIC trial showed that Imfinzi in product rights such as in-licensing 2017: in3rd line HCL PLAIT.
We also secured combination with tremelimumab for 1st line $404 million: 2016: $821 million.
We also Orphan Drug designation for the development non-small cell lung cancer NSCLC did not invested $94 million on the implementation of three medicines to treat veryrare diseases meet the primary endpoint of overall survival ofour R&D restructuring strategy 2017: $201 including Lynparza fortreatment of pancreatic OS, and the Phase III EAGLE trial of Imfinzi million: 2016: $178 million.
The allocations cancer POLO, selumetinib for the treatment and tremelimumab did not meet the primary ofspend by early-stage and late-stage of neurofibromatosis type 1 SPRINT and endpoints of improving OS in advanced head development are presented in the R&D Fasenra for the treatment of eosinophilic and neck cancer relative to standard of care spendanalysis table below.
Along with Lilly, we also discontinued development of lanabecestat R&D spend analysis We also collaborate to advance our forAlzheimers disease after an independent clinical research from strategic alliances 2018 2017 2016 data monitoring committee concluded that with contract research organisations Discovery and thetrials were unlikely to meet their primary CROs for the delivery of clinical trials, early-stage endpoints and recommended the trials to .
Late-stage development 63% 64% 64% 26 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Development pipeline overview as at 31 December 2018 Life-cycle Late-stage Phase I Phase II management 38 43 development 22 46 projects 22 projects in late-stage 38 projects in Phase I, including: 43 projects in Phase II, including: 46 LCM projects development, either in Phase III 26 NMEs 25 NMEs pivotal Phase II studies or under 12 oncology combination projects 6 significant additional regulatory review: indications for projects that have 8 NMEs not yet approved in reached Phase III any market 12 oncology combination 7 projects exploring additional projects indications for these NMEs 7 NMEs already approved or launched in the EU, China, Japan and or the US Only includes material projects NMEs and significant where first indication is launched additional indications.
Cambridge Costs for the project have risen since our Cambridge, UK, is a world-leading academic original cost projection due to the complexity and life sciences hub, and is where we are of the build, construction cost inflation, building our new strategic R&D centre and including the impact of a weakening pound 8,900 global corporate headquarters.
With around sterling, and increased investment in new We have approximately 2,500 AstraZeneca and MedImmune staff now technologies and equipment for example 8,900employees in our located in the city, we are already seeing the genomics, screening lab as part of our R&Dorganisation impact of significant scientific and strategic ongoing investment in R&D in the UK.
The collaborations within the Cambridge cluster.
new construction manager is reviewing cost estimates but our current cost projection Construction began in April 2015 and during forthe project is in the region of 750 million.
$5.9bn 2018, the focus of our activities at the site on The project is being funded out of the Cambridge Biomedical Campus CBC operationalcash flows.
$5,932 million invested in shifted from the base building infrastructure ourscience and exterior towards the fit-out of laboratory Our longer-term vision is to have our nonand scientific support spaces, interior design laboratory-based Cambridge colleagues of the office areas and landscaping.
Reflecting co-located on the CBC and near our key this shift of focus, we changed construction scientific, research and clinical partners.
manager with effect from November 2018.
Weare now updating the overall master planfor the site and the next stage will We remain committed to the design principles bethedevelopment of an office building of the site and making it a great place to work.
oppositeour R&D centre that can The complexity of the building project is accommodate an additional 1,000 people.
reflected in the updated schedule, in which we are expected to start occupation of the building from 2020 rather than have it fully operational in that year as reported in our previous Annual Report.
We believe that with our staff in Cambridge already delivering the strategic goals around our decision to locate ourselves in the city, we do not need to pressfor earlier occupation by adjusting thebuilding programme.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Business Review 27 AstraZeneca is partnering with world-leading diagnostic developers to deliver complete disease profiling with a single ctDNA test continuing to improve outcomes for patients.
can Science improve the diagnosis 30% Some 30% of biopsies andtreatment of cancer can fail Circulating tumour DNA also has an important role to play if we are to realise our ambition of eliminating cancer as a cause of death.
We believe AstraZeneca has pioneered the use of it has the potential to improve drug circulating tumour DNA ctDNA for development by identifying patients the detection of biomarkers in cancer.
who are at risk of relapse and enabling Pieces of DNA are shed from a tumour rapid changes in therapy to address and circulate in the bloodstream this.
For example, in early-stage lung where they can be analysed to give cancer, the majority of patients are genetic information about a patients cured by surgery and chemoradiation tumour.
The worlds first ctDNA therapy.
The key to improving overall diagnostic test was associated with survival in these stages is to identify Iressa for specific mutations in the those patients at high risk of early epidermal growth factor receptor relapse and an emerging potential EGFR, namely Exon 19 deletions way to do this is by detecting the and L858R in patients with non-small failure to clear ctDNA from the blood cell lung cancer.
It is an approach once curative intent treatment has that allows healthcare professionals been completed.
Investigating the to determine the right treatment for clinical utility and validity of ctDNA a patient using a minimally invasive in this setting is an active area of blood test in place of a biopsy, amore research.
For example, for these invasive method that can fail in high risk patients, we can test in a some 30% of cases.
AstraZeneca minimally invasive manner whether is partnering with world-leading three months intervention with diagnostic developers to deliver investigational compounds removes complete disease profiling with a residual disease as evidenced by the single ctDNA test continuing to clearance of ctDNA, and whether this Circulating tumour DNA see improve outcomes for patients.
caption on inside front cover.
28 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Business Review Return to Growth 2.
Return to Growth Our plans for growth Our Commercial teams, which comprised Our return to Product Sales growth around 36,100 employees at the end of 2018, was underpinned by our focus on our are active in more than 100 countries.
In most Growth Platforms and leveraging our countries, we sell our medicines through strong global commercial presence, wholly-owned local marketing companies.
We also sell through distributors and local particularly in Emerging Markets, representative offices.
We market our toensure the right medicines are products largely to primary care and available and that patients have specialtycare physicians.
Our return to Product Sales growth was underpinned by our Growth Platforms.
As Overview shown on page 21and above, these comprise Product Sales of $21,049 million up 4% our three main therapy areas, together with atactual rate of exchange: 4% at CER and Emerging Markets and Japan.
In 2018 they Externalisation Revenue of $1,041 million grew by 13% 12% at CER and represent 84% down 55%: 55% at CER, resulting in of Total Revenue.
Total Revenue of $22,090 million down 2%: 2% at CER 1 Sales of our New Medicines generated Growth Platforms revenue of $18,464 incremental sales of $2.8 billion at CER and million, up 13% 12% at CER represented 30% of Total Revenue.
These New Emerging Markets: Sales growth of Medicines are important platforms for future 12% 13% at CER to $6,891 million.
In Emerging Markets, they represented China sales in the year grew by 28% 15% of sales, up from 10% in 2017 and, in the 25% at CER, supported by the US, they represented 48% of Product Sales, launches of new medicines up from 26%.
US performance reflected, in Respiratory: Sales grew by 4% 3% particular, the success of the new Oncology at CER.
Symbicort sales declined medicines plus the strong performance of by9% 10% at CER, Pulmicort sales Fasenra.
In Europe, the decline in Product rose by 9% 8% at CER and Fasenra Sales reflected the impact of generic Crestor performed well in the countries where medicines in various markets in 2017 and it had been launched continued competitive and price pressures.
New CVRM: Sales growth of 12% 12% New Medicines represented 28% of Product at CER.
Strong performances from Sales, up from 18% in 2017.
In Established Farxiga and Brilinta, with sales of Rest of World, New Medicines represented eachexceeding $1.3 billion in 2018 24% of sales in the year, up from 13% in 2017.
Japan: Sales decline of 9% 11% at CER.
The impact of generic Crestor However, the pharmaceutical market is highly was felt faster than expected and competitive.
For example, our Diabetes the biennial price reduction also franchise continues to see pricing pressure.
impacted sales In immuno-oncology, the large number of Oncology: Sales growth of 50% 49% clinical trials that are being carried out at CER.
Sales of Tagrisso reached highlight the competitive nature of this $1,860 million to become AstraZenecas areaand renders speed to market critical.
largest-selling Oncology medicine US revenue was up by 11% to $6,876 million: Europe was down by 6% 10% at CER to $4,459 million: and Established ROW was down by 8% 9% at CER to $2,823 million 1 81% increase in New Medicines revenue 81% at CER, contributing 30% of Total Revenue 1 Tagrisso, Imfinzi, Lynparza, Calquence, Lumoxiti, Brilinta, Farxiga, Lokelma, Bevespi and Fasenra.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Business Review 29 Business Review Return to Growth continued Regional Product Sales 1.
Established Rest of World 11% 11% growth in the year 8 % 11% at CER to 8% decline in the year $6,876m 9% at CER to $2,823m 4 All numbers as at 31 December 2018.
Pricing and delivering value We pursue a flexible pricing approach that US Our medicines help treat unmet medical need, reflects the wide variation in global As the sixteenth largest prescription-based improve health and create economic benefits.
We have developed pharmaceutical company in the US, we have a Effective treatments can lower healthcare patient access programmes that are aligned 2.5% market share of US pharmaceuticals by costs by reducing the need for more with the ability to pay of patients and sales value.
In 2018, Product Sales in the US expensive care, preventing more serious and healthcare systems.
We are committed to increased by 11% to $6,876 million costly diseases and increasing productivity.
the appropriate use of managed entry 2017:$6,169 million.
We are committed to a pricing policy for our schemes and the development of real-world medicines based on four principles: evidence and we are investigating innovative The US healthcare system is complex with approaches to the pricing of medicines, multiple payers and intermediaries exerting We determine the price of our medicines such as payment for outcomes received by pressure on patient access to branded while considering their full value for the patient and healthcare system.
medicines through regulatory and voluntary patients, payers and society.
Regulatory rebates are statutorily agreement on price involves many national, By way of example of our approach, we apply mandated chargebacks and discounts paid on regional and local stakeholders, reflecting Tiered Pricing Principles globally.
This defines government-funded programmes such as factors such as clinical benefit, cost price levels commensurate with affordability Medicaid, Department of Defense including effectiveness, improvement to life based on a countrys ability to pay.
We TRICARE and Department of Veterans Affairs.
expectancy and quality of life.
believe that this approach to pricing is Voluntary rebates are paid to managed care We aim to ensure the sustainability of sustainable and fair, and that it will increase organisations and pharmacy benefit managers both the healthcare system and our access and improve patient outcomes in for commercially insured patients, including research-led business model.
In the Medicare we share a collective responsibility with PartD programme, in addition to voluntary healthcare providers and other More generally, we remain committed to negotiated rebates, branded pharmaceutical stakeholders to work together to enable exploring innovative solutions to improve manufacturers are statutorily required to pay a an efficient healthcare system for patients patient access and affordability, focusing on percentage of the patients out-of-pocket costs today and support a pipeline of new the value our medicines bring to patients and during the coverage gap portion of their medicines for patients tomorrow.
We are collaborating benefit design.
From the beginning of 2019, the We seek to ensure appropriate patient with payers to conclude value-based pricing mandatory coverage gap discount increased to access to our medicines.
We work closely solutions that improve patient outcomes and 70% from its former amount of 50%, as a result with payers and providers to understand have entered into 37 such agreements across of the passage of legislation in 2018.
As part of their priorities and requirements, and play a our therapy areas.
For more information, see the Affordable Care Act ACA, we also pay a leading role in projects to align better the the case study on page 17. portion of an overall industry Patient Protection requirements of regulatory and health and Affordable Care Act Branded Prescription technology assessment HTA agencies or Drug Fee.
other organisations that provide value assessment of medicines.
For example, we In 2018, the overall measurable reduction in our have a leading role in the European IMI profit before tax for the year due to discounts ADAPT-SMART programme for exploring on branded pharmaceuticals in the Medicare adaptive licensing.
Part D Coverage Gap and an industry-wide HealthCare Reform Fee was $432 million 2017: $119 million: 2016: $471 million.
30 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report In the US, there is significant pricing pressure We understand that our medicines will not Established Rest of World ROW driven by payer consolidation, restrictive benefit patients if they are unable to afford In 2018, Product Sales in Japan decreased by reimbursement policies and cost control tools, them and that is why we offer a number of 9% at actual rate of exchange 11% at CER to such as exclusionary formularies and price resources and programmes that can help $2,004 million 2017: $2,208 million, as a result protection clauses.
Many formularies, which increase patients access to medication and of the biennial government price cuts and specify particular medicines that are approved reduce their out-of-pocket costs.
We focus increased intervention from the government to be prescribed in a healthcare system, or our formulary access on affordability for to rapidly increase the volume share of generic under a health insurance policy, employ generic patients through rebate payments as well products.
In September 2017, a Crestor first strategies and or require physicians to assavings cards for eligible patients when authorised generic entered the market and obtain prior approval for the use of a branded theout-of-pocket costs are not affordable.
in December 2017 we saw more than 20 medicine where a generic alternative exists.
AstraZeneca has one of the longest-standing generic companies enter the Japanese statin These mechanisms can be used by patient assistance programmes in the market with generic rosuvastatin which has intermediaries to limit the use of branded industry, AZ&Me, which provides eligible strongly impacted Crestor Product Sales products and put pressure on manufacturers patients with AstraZeneca medicines at no with a decrease of 60%.
Leaving aside these toreduce net prices.
AstraZeneca has provided prescription generic restraints, Japan is presenting strong prescriptions dispensed in the US were generic, savings to four million patients across the US growth from the brands in our Growth compared with 84.9% in 2017.
In addition, and Puerto Rico over the past 10 years.
In addition, there patients are seeing changes in the design of wereparticularly strong performances from F or more information, see Community investment their health plan benefits and may experience Tagrisso, Fasenra, Imfinzi, Lynparza and the on page 48. variation, including increases, in both premiums Diabetes franchise.
We now hold twelfth and out-of-pocket payments for their branded position in the ranking of pharmaceutical Europe medications.
The patient out-of-pocket spend companies by sales of medicines in Japan.
The total European pharmaceutical market was isgenerally in the form of a co-payment or Japan remains an attractive market for worth $196 billion in 2018.
We are the fifteenth co-insurance, but there is a growing trend innovative pharmaceuticals.
largest prescription-based pharmaceutical towards high-deductible health plans which company in Europe see Market definitions require patients to pay the full list price until they Canada has a mixed public private payer onpage 239 with a 2.0% market share of meet certain out-of-pocket thresholds.
system for medicines that is funded by the pharmaceutical sales by value.
provinces, insurers and individual patients.
Ongoing scrutiny of the US pharmaceutical Ithas also now become common for public In 2018, our Product Sales in Europe industry, focused largely on pricing, has been payers to negotiate lower non-transparent decreased by 6% at actual rate of exchange the basis of multiple policy proposals in the prices after they have gone through a review 10% at CER to $4,459 million 2017: $4,753 US.
In May 2018, the Trump Administration by the Canadian Agency for Drugs and million.
Key drivers of the decline, leaving issued its Blueprint to Lower Drug Prices and Technology in Health, a health technology aside the impact of divestments such as Reduce Out-of-Pocket Costs, which included assessment body.
Most private insurers pay Seloken, Atacand, Nexium and Zomig, a wide range of policy proposals that would full price, although there is increasing pressure werecontinued competition from Symbicort impact the US pharmaceutical industry if to achieve lower pricing.
Overall, the split for analogues, loss of exclusivity for Crestor, implemented.
Proposed changes under AstraZenecas portfolio is 62% funded by andthe continued impact of early generic consideration include, but are not limited to, private payers and 38% by public plans.
entry in certain markets for Faslodex, fundamentally changing the role of rebates in whichwe expect to continue in 2019.
The the pharmaceutical supply chain, reforms to Our sales in Australia and New Zealand continued macroeconomic environment, the 340B Drug Pricing Program, and policies declined by 16% at actual rate of exchange pricing pressure from payers and parallel to increase competition in the Medicare 14% at CER in 2018.
This was primarily trade across markets also affected sales.
programme and encourage generic drug use.
dueto the continued erosion of Nexium and The Trump Administration has already taken Seroquel by generic medicines, further price Despite these conditions, we continued to action on several of the policies discussed reductions on established brands and entry launch innovative medicines across Europe inthe Blueprint, and more policy actions are ofan analogue for Symbicort in Australia, and saw encouraging performance for certain pending.
In addition, lawmakers at both the which had an impact on both price and products across our Growth Platforms, in federal and state level have sought increased volume.
Consequently, sales in 2018 declined particular with Forxiga, Brilinta, Fasenra, drug pricing transparency and have proposed at a greater rate compared to that seen in Lynparza and Tagrisso.
Oncology sales in and implemented policies that include 2017.
However, the pace of generic erosion Europe grew by 19% 14% at CER, partly measures relating to the submission of has moderated notably with Crestor and driven by the approval of Tagrisso for the proprietary manufacturer data, establishment Atacand, while the sales growth from new treatment of patients in the 1st line EGFRm of price parameters that are indexed to products such as Brilinta, Lynparza and the setting in June 2018.
Lynparza sales grew by certainfederal programmes, and reporting of Diabetes portfolio has continued.
Brilinta, 46% 41% at CER, partly benefiting from the changes in pricing beyond certain thresholds.
Lynparza and the Diabetes portfolio grew approval in May 2018 for its use as a tabletby4% at actual rate of exchange 6% at CER, based treatment for platinum-sensitive ovarian Though widespread adoption of a broad 41% at actual rate of exchange 43% at CER cancer, regardless of BRCA status.
Brilique national price control scheme in the near and 4% at actual rate of exchange 6% at sales growth of 18% 13% at CER was futureis unlikely, we continue to comply with CER, respectively.
accompanied by Forxiga sales growth of new state-level regulations in this area and we E stablished ROW comprises Australia and New Zealand, 30% 24% at CER.
Fasenra was successfully recognise the sustained potential for substantial Canada and Japan.
launched in several European countries, changes to laws and regulations regarding drug witha strong initial uptake.
pricing that could have a significant impact on the pharmaceutical industry.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Business Review 31 Business Review Return to Growth continued Emerging Markets for both brands in 2019.
This evaluation is Emerging Markets, as defined in Market being applied retrospectively, so several definitions on page 239, comprise various existing generic products may fail and countries with dynamic, growing economies.
bewithdrawn which could lead to a 11% As outlined in Marketplace from page 11, consolidation in the sector.
This would leave 11% increase in Product Sales in these countries represent a major growth fewer, higher-quality generics in the market the US in 2018 11% at CER to opportunity for the pharmaceutical industry thereby putting pressure on any originator $6,876 million due to high unmet medical need and sound brand price premiums and driving a economic fundamentals.
Emerging Markets reductionin overall medical costs.
are not immune, however, to economic downturn.
Market volatility is higher than in The industry-wide growth rate is expected 28% Established Markets, and various political tobe a moderate single digit percentage, 28% increase in Product Sales in and economic challenges exist.
These include following the updates of the NRDL and China in 2018 25% at CER to regulatory and government interventions.
$3,795 million In selected markets, governments are Nevertheless, the healthcare environment encouraging local manufacturing by offering inChina remains dynamic.
Opportunities more favourable pricing legislation and pricing arearising from incremental healthcare is increasingly controlled by governments investment, strong underlying demand for with price referencing regulations.
ourmore established medicines and the AstraZeneca was emergence of innovative medicines such Growth drivers for Emerging Markets include asTagrisso and Lynparza.
thefastest-growing new medicines across our Oncology, CVRM top10 multinational and Respiratory portfolios.
To educate F or more information on our work in China, see page 37. physicians about our broad portfolio, we pharmaceutical are selectively investing in sales capabilities Emerging market healthcare company in Emerging where opportunities from unmet medical We continue to make our medicines Markets in 2018. need exist.
We are also expanding our affordable to more people on a commercially reach through multi-channel marketing and socially sustainable basis.
As, on average, and external partnerships.
almost half of medicine funding in emerging countries is paid for by the patient or their With revenues of $6,891 million, AstraZeneca families, we base our approach in these was the fourth largest multinational markets on an understanding of their pharmaceutical company, as measured by economic circumstances and the burden prescription sales, and the fastest-growing placed on them by health costs.
We are top 10 multinational pharmaceutical company aiming to enable our Emerging Markets to in Emerging Markets in 2018. deliver better and broader patient access through innovative and targeted equitable China pricing strategies and practices.
In China, AstraZeneca is the second largest pharmaceutical company by value in the We have a variety of access programmes hospital sector, as measured by sales.
Sales around the world, each tailored to meet the in China in 2018 increased by 28% at actual needs of the local community, which include rate of exchange 25% at CER to $3,795 apatients ability to pay.
These include patient million 2017: $2,955 million.
We delivered assistance programmes, such as Terapia sales growth above the growth rate of the Plusin Ukraine, Karta Zdorovia in Russia hospital market sector through strategic andFazBem in Brazil.
Through these brand investment, systematic organisational programmes, we help qualifying patients capability improvements and long-term withdiscounts anddonations.
We provide channel expansion programmes in our main these programmesin markets with limited or therapy areas.
In addition, Tagrisso was listed no public reimbursement system, no coverage in the National Reimbursed Drug List NRDL beyondthe most basic therapies, or where and we launched Lynparza during 2018. itis unlikely or only after an extended Pricing practices remain a priority for periodthat public reimbursement is a regulators, and new national regulations, in .
addition to provincial and hospital tenders, continue to put increasing pricing pressures AstraZeneca also aims to partner with countries on pharmaceutical companies in China.
In healthcare systems to optimise access to addition, the planned roll-out of the Generics healthcare.
For example, in South Africa, Quality Consistency Evaluation GQCE will Phakamisa supports the healthcare system have an impact on pharmaceuticals budgets bybringing together different organisations to and pricing through setting new standards for strengthen healthcare capabilities and improve bioequivalence that generic products must access to treatment and support networks.
The outcome of the latest round aims to reduce the burden of breast and oftenders involving Crestor and Iressa prostate cancer through the promotion of wereannounced in December 2018 with primary prevention and early detection.
This is expected to result in a level of sales decline 32 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report In 2017, we launched the Healthy Lung Asia Operations our late-stage development group to our programme, focusing on improving care for commercial manufacturing sites and external Our manufacturing and supply asthma, COPD and lung cancer across nine partners.
PT&D now has a physical presence function supports our Return to Asian countries India, Indonesia, Malaysia, atour major manufacturing facilities supporting Growth, and our Operations Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, successful product launches, including Thailand and Vietnam.
The Healthy Lung 2020plan provides a focus for our Lokelma, Bydureon BCise and Lynparza tablets initiative aims to support: increased and providing technical leadership for our investments.
They will help ensure awareness: earlier diagnosis: improved commercial portfolio throughout the product we are able to respond to patient and treatment: better disease management: and life-cycle.
PT&D is also accountable for the market needs for our medicines.
establishing standards of care and initiatives development and introduction of new in line with international best practice.
manufacturing, packaging and analytical Operations 2020 was launched in 2015 to technologies across the AstraZeneca small So far, we have initiated 28 formal enhance supply capabilities in order to molecule network.
partnerships and signed 13 memoranda of respond better to patient and market needs.
understanding with national and regional Itfocuses on supporting the delivery of our In collaboration with our R&D groups, PT&D governments, professional organisations new product launches, strengthening our isaccountable for the development of andNGOs to drive care improvement, science and technology capabilities across commercial pharmaceutical products across whichhas enabled Healthy Lung to: the globe, creating a more agile and flexible our pipeline of innovative, small molecule supply chain, and embedding Lean principles projects.
PT&Ds core capabilities in chemical Support the training of more than 25,000 throughout our network.
Our goal is to be development, and oral, inhaled and sterile healthcare professionals.
recognised as a leader in the pharmaceutical product development, and digital therapeutics Enable diagnosis of more than 500,000 supply chain by 2020. are focused on the development of cases of asthma.
sustainable processes for medicines Activate more than 900 Respiratory Centres.
Quality, regulation and compliance designed to meet patients needs.
The clinical Align 10 national care guidelines and care We are committed to high product quality, operations capability in PT&D works closely pathways to international best practice GINA.
which underpins the safety and efficacy of with our partners in R&D to design and supply ourmedicines.
We maintain a comprehensive earlyand late-stage clinical material and is In 2018, the programme was extended with quality management system to assure accountable for the worldwide supply of 260 launches in Latin America, the Middle East compliance and quality.
Similarly, we set strict AstraZeneca sponsored studies.
standards for safety, health and environment at each of our sites.
Manufacturing facilities Supply chain management Healthy Heart Africa was launched in Kenya in and processes are subject to rigorous and We need an uninterrupted supply of high- 2014, Ethiopia in 2016 and Tanzania in 2018, continuously evolving regulatory standards.
quality raw materials and active supporting the countries to address the They are subject to inspections by regulatory pharmaceutical ingredients APIs and, with burden of NCDs.
Since launching, the authorities, who are authorised to mandate most of our API manufacturing outsourced, programme has: improvements to facilities and processes, we place great importance on our global haltproduction and impose conditions for external sourcing and procurement Conducted 9.97 million blood pressure production to resume.
organisations and policies, as well as our screenings in the community and in integrated risk management processes.
To ensure compliance with global Good Wepurchase materials from a wide range of Trained over 5,800 healthcare workers, Manufacturing Practice regulations, the suppliers and work to mitigate supply risks, including doctors, nurses, community Operations Quality team continuously reviews such as natural or man-made disasters that health volunteers and pharmacists, to and strengthens the Quality Systems at our disrupt supply chains or the unavailability provide education and awareness, manufacturing sites through internal audit ofraw materials.
Contingency plans include screening and treatment services for programmes, external intelligence and sharing using dual or multiple suppliers where hypertension.
In 2018, these appropriate, maintaining adequate stock Activated over 700 healthcare facilities in measures helped us successfully achieve zero levels and working to mitigate the effect Africa to provide hypertension services, critical observations from 48 independent ofpricing fluctuations in raw materials.
including the establishment of a secure inspections.
Wereviewed observations from supply chain for low-cost, high-quality these inspections together with the outcomes As a consequence of the UKs decision to antihypertensive medicines.
of internal audits and, where necessary, leavethe EU, which is anticipated to become Identified over 1.86 million people living implemented improvement actions.
effective from 29 March 2019, we have also withhigh blood pressure.
been working closely with our suppliers We are committed to maintaining the highest ontheir readiness for the impact this will In 2018, AstraZeneca began a pilot of clean ethical standards and compliance with internal have, with a view to mitigating the effect biogas cooking in Western Kenya.
This is policies, laws and regulations.
We review on our business.
enabling the local community to process andcomment upon evolving national and waste into clean energy, while improving international compliance regulations through Since late 2017, we have completed a detailed respiratory health of nearby communities by our membership of industry associations, assessment of approximately 400 suppliers replacing wood-burning fires with alternative including IFPMA, EFPIA and PhRMA.
across all areas of our supply chain, including fuel sources.
The pilot is in partnership with our major and critical suppliers.
During 2018, the Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Pharmaceutical Technology & Development we saw a decline in the overall level of Leadership who will study the environmental The integration of our Pharmaceutical supplier-related risk due to various mitigations, impact of this intervention.
Technology & Development PT&D group including revised logistics channels, additional intoour Operations organisation has been warehousing, the potential to move clinical trial F or more information on Broadening access to healthcare completed, ensuring a seamless transfer of related activities, stock building of product and as one of our sustainability priorities, see page 43. manufacturing technology and processes from manufacturing related goods, movement of AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Business Review 33 Business Review Return to Growth continued stock locations, and assessment of the Manufacturing capabilities opportunity for supplier substitution.
We Our principal tablet and capsule formulation continue to consider further mitigation activities sites are in the UK, Sweden, China, Puerto with a focus on clinical trials and manufacturing Rico and the US, with local regional supply 29 given the risk arising from the mix of goods and sites in Russia, Japan, Indonesia, Egypt, services, and the associated cross-border UK India, Germany, Mexico and Brazil.
We We have 29 Operations sites in EU and EU UK movements.
While we continue alsohave major formulation sites for 17countries to make progress, it is possible that adverse theglobal supply of parenteral and or events will impact supplier activities.
Issue inhalation products in the US, Sweden, management may therefore play a key element France, Australia and the UK.
Most of the in our ability to maintain safe supply of our manufacture of APIs is delivered through 260 medicines and ongoing business operations the efficient use of external sourcing more generally.
that is complemented by internal Completed more than 260 major capabilityinSweden.
orstrategically important business In addition, as part of our planning to manage transactions in the last three years, the impact of the UK leaving the EU, we have For biologics, our principal commercial including 80 in 2018 engaged with regulators and government to manufacturing facilities are in the US ensure they have a clear view on the potential Frederick, MD: Greater Philadelphia, impact on pharmaceutical supply chains.
We PA, theUK Speke, and the Netherlands have made significant efforts to duplicate our Nijmegen, with capabilities in process 630 UK testing capability within the EU and to development, manufacturing and distribution We have more than 630 implement system changes necessary to of biologics, including global supply of mAbs collaborations worldwide facilitate compliance with EU law once the and influenza vaccines.
In Sweden, our new UKbecomes a third country.
Furthermore, biologics drug product manufacturing facility wehave revised our logistics plans including became available at the end of 2018. shipping routes and built additional inventory in anticipation of some level of border As part of our ongoing review of As part of our planning congestion to reduce the risk of disruption manufacturing capabilities and capacity, to manage the impact ofsupply to patients.
inJanuary 2019, we made the decision to of the UK leaving the discontinue operations at the Boulder and Supply chain financing Longmont, CO manufacturing facilities to EU, we have engaged AstraZeneca has a supply chain finance increase efficiencies in our global biologics with regulators and programme to support the cash flow of its supply chain.
This step will consolidate our supply base.
This programme, in partnership biologic drug substance manufacturing government to ensure with Taulia Inc. and Greensill Capital, provides network to one large-scale drug substance they have a clear view suppliers with visibility of invoices and facility, the Frederick Manufacturing Center, on the potential impact payment dates.
The closure of the sites is expected to thisplatform free of charge and have full becompleted by the end of 2019 and will not on pharmaceutical optionality and flexibility on an invoice by impact the supply or global availability of any supply chains.
invoice basis to request early payment of of our biologic medicines.
We will be working invoices.
On election of an early payment, with the impacted employees to provide acharge is incurred by the supplier based outplacement and transition support.
onthe period of acceleration, central bank interest rate, and the rate agreed between For small molecules we have constructed Taulia Inc. and each supplier.
All early anew small-scale development and launch payments are paid by Greensill Capital, and facility alongside our existing manufacturing AstraZeneca settles the original invoice facility in Wuxi, China.
This investment amount with Greensill Capital at maturity supports the acceleration of delivery of new ofthe original invoice due date.
innovative medicines to patients in China and completes our ability to execute across the We believe this programme offers a benefit whole life-cycle of medicines from discovery toour suppliers, as it provides visibility and to commercialisation.
flexibility to manage their cash flow, and the rates offered can be preferential to their cost At the end of 2018, approximately 13,000 of funding.
The programme is currently live in people were employed at 29 Operations the US, UK, Sweden and Germany.
December 2018, the programme had 2,548 suppliers enrolled, and a potential early payment balance of $166 million.
F or more information on supply chain financing, seeNote19 on page 177.
F or more information on Ethical supply chain management, see from page 45.
34 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Partnering In addition, we entered into an agreement Intellectual Property under which AstraZeneca will gain the Business development, specifically Our industrys principal economic exclusive rights from Zambon to import, partnering, is an important element safeguard is a well-functioning distribute and promote Fluimucil ampoules, ofour business.
It supplements system of patent and related amedicine which treats respiratory disease, andstrengthens our pipeline and for inhalation in China excluding Hong Kong, protection that recognises our Macau and Taiwan.
ourefforts to achieve scientific effortsand rewards innovation leadership.
We partner with others withappropriate protection and Externalisation is a core component of our around the world, including academia, allows time to generate the revenue strategy and has an important role to play in governments, industry, scientific the delivery of our ambition as we continue to we need to reinvest in pharmaceutical sharpen our focus on developing key assets organisations and patient groups, innovation.
Patent rights are limited within our main therapy areas.
This activity aswell as other pharmaceutical by territory and duration.
creates additional value from our existing companies, to access the best science medicines as well as recurring Externalisation A significant portion of a patents term can to stimulate innovation and accelerate Revenue and falls broadly into two categories: bespent during R&D, before it is possible to the delivery of new medicines to target launch the protected product.
Therefore, we collaborations that help us access therapy unmet medical need.
We currently commit significant resources to establishing area expertise and defending our patent and related IP have more than 630 collaborations collaborations that help us increase the protections for inventions.
number of patients and the reach of medicines in which we maintain an ongoing Patent process More generally, our business development interest, but which typically sit outside our We file patent protection applications activity takes many forms and can be broadly main therapy areas.
forourinventions to safeguard the large grouped into: investment required to obtain marketing Details of significant business development approvals for potential new drugs.
As we alliances, collaborations and acquisitions transactions which give rise to Externalisation further develop aproduct and its uses, these toenhance our portfolio and pipeline in Revenue are included in the Financial Review new developments may necessitate new ourmain therapy areas from page 74.
The Externalisation Revenue patent filings.
We apply for patents through externalisation activity to maximise the generated in 2018 is provided in Note 1 government patent offices around the world.
value of our assets from page 160.
There were no significant These assess whether our inventions meet divestments of non-priority medicines.
transactions during 2018. thestrict legal requirements for a patent to begranted.
Our competitors can challenge We continue to assess opportunities to make We also divest medicines that typically sit our patents in patent offices and or courts.
strategic, value-enhancing additions to our outside our main therapy areas and that can We may face challenges early in the patent portfolio and pipeline in our main therapy be deployed better by a partner, in order to application process and throughout a patents areas, including through in-licensing and redirect investment and resource in our main life.
The grounds for these challenges could acquisitions.
No acquisitions were areas of focus, while ensuring continued be the validity of a patent and or its effective completedin 2018. orexpanded patient access.
For example, scope and are based on ever-evolving legal in2018, we divested European rights for precedents.
We are experiencing increased Over the past three years, we have completed Atacand to Cheplapharm: European rights for challenges in the US and elsewhere in the more than 260 major or strategically important Nexium to Grnenthal: rights for Seroquel in world such as in Australia, Brazil, Canada, business development transactions, including all except the US and European markets to China, Europe and Japan, and there can some 80 in 2018.
Of these transactions, Luye Pharma: rights for Vimovo, excluding the beno guarantee of success for either party eightwere related to pre-clinical assets or US and Japan, to Grnenthal: and rights to inpatent proceedings.
programmes and 38 to precision medicine and Alvesco, Omnaris and Zetonna in all markets biomarkers associated with small molecule and except the US to Covis.
We also entered F or information about third-party challenges to patents biologics programmes.
Thirteen transactions intoan agreement with Sobi to divest the protecting our products, see Note 29 to the Financial Statements from page 194. helped expand our biologics capabilities.
USrights for Synagis, the agreement was signed in November 2018 and the transaction F or more information on the risks relating to patent Of particular note, we announced a new completed in January 2019.
In addition, we litigation and early loss and expiry of patents, see Risk from page 220. agreement with Innate Pharma under spun out six molecules from our early-stage whichwe will exercise our existing option to inflammation and autoimmunity programmes obtain full oncology rights to monalizumab, into an independent biotech company, Viela The basic term of a patent is typically 20 years afirst-in-class humanised anti-NKG2A Bio see Other Disease Areas therapy area from the filing of the patent application with antibody which has demonstrated positive review, from page 67 for further details.
These the relevant patent office.
However, a product Phase II results in head and neck cancer agreements will enable us to concentrate our protected by a pharmaceutical patent may not and presents opportunities in colorectal resources on bringing multiple new medicines be marketed for several years after filing, due cancer and haematological malignancies to patients.
to the duration of clinical trials and regulatory as well see Oncology therapy area review, approval processes.
Patent Term Extensions from page 50 for further details.
The agreement The resulting revenue from these activities PTEs are available in certain major markets, also provides us with access to Innate Pharmas supports our R&D investments in our main including the EU and the US, to compensate anti-CD39 mAb, IPH5201, plus four additional therapy areas.
A total of 15 transactions that for these delays.
The term of the PTE can vary immuno-oncology molecules, increasing the contribute to Externalisation Revenue or from zero to five years, depending on the time breadth and depth of our immuno-oncology generate income through divestment or taken to obtain any marketing approval.
As part of this transaction, we also out-licensing were completed in 2018. maximum patent term, when including PTE, licensed US commercial rights for Lumoxiti to cannot exceed 15 years EU or 14 years US M ore information on our partnering activity in 2018 can Innate Pharma.
from the first marketing authorisation.
be found in the Financial Review from page 74 and Notes 1 and 2 to the Financial Statements from page 160.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Business Review 35 Business Review Return to Growth continued Patent expiries Compulsory licensing Our Defense in depth strategy has focused The table on pages 217 to 219 sets out Compulsory licensing where a Patent on enhancing multiple levels of protection certainpatent expiry dates and sales for Authority imposes a licence on the Patentee anddetection as well as introducing additional ourkey marketed products.
is on the increase in certain markets in third-party cybersecurity intelligence with an whichwe operate.
We recognise the right of appropriate response from our 24x7 Security Other exclusivities developing countries to use the flexibilities in Operations Centre.
Cybersecurity testing via Regulatory data protection RDP or data the World Trade Organizations Agreement on both internal and external cybersecurity teams exclusivity is an important additional form Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property will continue to validate our cyber maturity ofexclusivity which is separate from, but runs Rights including the Doha amendment in and risk.
We continue to develop our in parallel to, patent exclusivity.
RDP arises certain circumstances, such as a public health relationships with government agencies, inrespect of data which is required to be emergency.
We believe this should apply only third-party cybersecurity professionals, submitted to regulatory authorities to obtain when all other ways of meeting the emergency andmany  peer marketing approvals for our medicines.
needs have been considered and where groups.
Cybersecurity within our third-party Significant investment is required to generate healthcare frameworks and safeguards vendors and supply chains is a focus area for such data for example, through conducting existto ensure the medicines reach AstraZeneca.
As an ongoing process, we are global clinical trials and this proprietary data thosewhoneed them.
evaluating reasonable levels of security and is protected from use by third parties such as associated controls, requiring contractors, generic manufacturers for a number of years vendors and critical supply chain partners to Information technology and in a limited number of countries.
The period meet or exceed our cybersecurity standards.
information services resources ofsuch protection, and the extent to which In 2018, we continued to sharpen our F or more details, including the risks relating itis respected, differs significantly among toinformation technology and cyber threats, countries and varies depending on whether focus on running IT with high quality seeRiskfrompage 220. anapproved drug is a small or large molecule performance improving IT cost compound.
RDP is an important protection efficiency, systems performance and forour products, and we strive to enforce delivering higher levels of support ourrights to it, particularly as patent rights areincreasingly being challenged.
The RDP period starts from the date of the With the IT foundation now firmly in place first marketing approval from the relevant andoperating at high levels of efficiency, regulatory authority and runs parallel to any wehave started to shift our focus to drive patent protection.
For small molecule drugs, moretransformative and digital capabilities RDP generally expires prior to patent expiry tosupport the evolving needs of the business.
We have a growing programme portfolio whichwill see us take advantage of data and If a product takes an unusually long time analytics, artificial intelligence, digital and the tosecure marketing approval, or if patent Internet of Things all of which are key to protection has not been secured, has expired support our overall business transformation.
or has been lost, then RDP may be the sole Inorder to deliver on these commitments, IT right protecting a product from copying.
has actively been strengthening its capabilities Generic manufacturers, we believe, should through recruiting key external talent into the notbe allowed to rely on AstraZenecas data organisation, as the expertise to succeed in to support the generic products approval some of these technologies was not internally ormarketing until the RDP right has expired.
present at the levels needed.
In addition to Inthe EU, the RDP period is eight years recruiting leaders in new technologies, the followed by two years market exclusivity.
ITorganisation continues to harness internal capabilities, enabling us to accelerate drug In the US, new chemical entities NCEs are development, revenue growth and profitability.
entitled to a period of five years of RDP under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.
Cybersecurity This period of RDP runs parallel to any The cybersecurity threat landscape pending or granted patent protection and continuesto grow in both volume and starts at the approval of the new application.
complexity, withthe healthcare industry There are circumstances where RDP could increasingly becoming a target of cyber bethe sole layer of exclusivity protecting a criminals.
Protecting our IT systems, IP product from being copied.
Further, under andconfidential information against cyber theBiologics License Application process, crimes continues tobe a critical area of focus theFDA will grant 12 years data RDP for a and investment.
Our implementation of the new biologic to an innovator manufacturer.
National Institute of Standards & Technology NIST risk framework allows us to understand Under Orphan Drug laws in the EU and US, cyber resilience and risk positioning, market exclusivity is granted to an innovator improving ourability to prevent attacks and who gains approval for a pharmaceutical minimise damage and data loss should a product developed to treat a rare disease.
We have seen success with What qualifies as a rare disease differs ourmandatory employee cybersecurity between the EU and US.
Qualifying Orphan awareness training programme, which helps Drugs are granted 10 years market exclusivity employees recognise and defend against in the EU and seven years market exclusivity common andhigh-risk cyber threats.
36 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report can Science deliver complete disease management in China Opened in 2017, and jointly developed We currently have eight models for with partners from government, disease management which continue 593 industry and academia, as well to be rolled out, not only across Wuxi, as with research and medical Pulmonary and critical but across the whole of China: institutions, our China Commercial care medicine centres Innovation Centre in Wuxi in Jiangsu Chronic disease management Province is designed as a showcase 42 centres for innovative ideas in healthcare.
It China chest pain 783 centres uses the Internet of Things IoT, big Metabolic management data, artificial intelligence and other 200 centres digital technologies to meet the needs Gastrointestinal cancer of patients in disease prevention, 66 centres screening, diagnosis, treatment and Integrated centre for lung rehabilitation.
cancer treatment 20 centres Integrated centre for prostate We collaborate with companies cancer diagnosis and who use advanced technologies treatment 200 centres to make diagnosis more precise, Paediatric nebulisation effectively combine drugs with 15,000 centres, including medical devices for better treatment, 4,200 smart centres and integrate online and offline Pulmonary and critical care healthcare resources to make medicine 593 centres information more accessible.
In this way, we can develop complete disease management solutions that deliver better outcomes for patients, make healthcare more accessible, and improve the understanding andmanagement of diseases.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Business Review 37 37 Business Review Be a Great Place to Work We have implemented a talent scout model to Employees enhance our ability to attract key talent into To achieve our strategic priorities, we senior roles.
Be a Great Place to Work continue to attract, retain and develop demonstrating our ability to hire best-in-class Great people are central to our a talented and diverse workforce critical capability at a reduced cost.
This has success and being a great place been supported by an enhanced employee united in the pursuit of our Purpose to work is at the heart of our efforts referral scheme, which has become an and living our Values.
increasingly important source of hire.
This to foster the talents of our people.
scheme won a significant external award.
We promote a culture, both for We value the talents and skills of our employees and our people strategy supports our strategic employees and those third parties We are working to attract emerging talent, priority of being a Great Place to Work.
with whom we work, that delivers aswell as investing in internships and recruitment opportunities globally.
For sustainable good performance Build and develop organisations example, we conduct a global programme and long-term business success.
and capabilities tohire recent graduates for pharmaceutical We are developing strategic workforce technology and development, procurement, plansto ensure we can attract the critical Overview quality, engineering, IT, supply chain, and capabilities required to deliver our long-term Encouraging improvements in scores biometrics and information sciences strategic priorities.
These plans are inour employee survey Pulse functions.
We also ran a graduate programme underpinned by predictive analytics, meaning Continued development of women and for IMED, which complements our established workforce decisions are data-driven.
We also increase in the representation of women IMED Post Doctorate Programme for use workforce analytics to ensure that we insenior roles researcher recruitment.
Additionally, we offer manage our global workforce optimally.
In Published new Global Standards on a 12-week internship opportunity for business addition, we have implemented a significant inclusion and diversity, sexual harassment school students to contribute to key initiatives number of automation initiatives to allow our and bullying, reinforced by training in our Oncology therapy area.
workforce to spend a higher proportion of Continued focus on workforce planning their time on higher-value activity.
toattract critical capabilities and manage retention risks Maintained listing in Pharmaceuticals, Biotechnology and Life Sciences industry group of Dow Jones Sustainability Index Gender diversity Materiality assessment reaffirmed focus and used to refine our sustainability priorities Board of Directors of the Company Directors of the Companys subsidiaries Sustainability Advisory Board met twice in 2018 to guide, recommend opportunities and provide external feedback Men 58% Men 62.1% Continued progress towards our target to Women 42% Women 37.9% source 100% renewable power by 2025 Senior Executive Team AstraZeneca employees Men 64% Men 49.9% Women 36% Women 50.1% For the purposes of section 414C 8 c ii of the Companies Act 2006, Senior Managers are the Senior Executive Team SET, the directors of all of the subsidiaries of the Company and other individuals holding named positions within those subsidiaries.
All numbers as at 31 December 2018.
38 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report During 2018, we hired 13,000 permanent The uncertainty faced by individuals and their some of which are described in the Directors employees.
Hiring over recent years means families following the UKs decision to leave Remuneration Report from page 120, and also that employees with less than two years the EU could have an impact on hiring and in Note 28 to the Financial Statements from service now represent 33% of our global retaining staff in some business-critical areas.
Additionally, in the UK, we are making workforce up from 20% in 2012.
This Consequently, we are providing extensive changes to the way we reward, provide benefits provides a greater balance in terms of support and information to employees and support our people.
These changes are refreshing talent and retaining organisational who might be impacted, monitoring trends designed to rebalance the reward mix, improve experience.
The majority of this hiring has in recruitment and resignation closely, and understanding of benefits and simplify our been focused in our Emerging Markets, in also guiding new hires through our processes.
particular China, as we continue to reshape recruitment process.
our workforce footprint to support our Our salary and bonus budgets are distributed strategic objectives and to position us well for Drive a vibrant, high-performing culture in line with our principles, allowing us the future.
Our data indicates that these Continuing our emphasis on high performance, to clearly differentiate reward according recent hires are performing strongly, although in 2018, our high performers were promoted at to performance.
in some areas of the business retention of this twice the rate of the wider employee population.
We require every employee to have high-quality We are committed to hiring and promoting objectives, aligned to our strategy, which we talent ethically and in compliance with Voluntary employee turnover increased monitor closely.
Managers are accountable for applicable laws.
Our Code of Ethics and its slightly to 10.2% 2017: 9.7%.
The voluntary working with their employees to develop supporting Standards are designed to help employee turnover rate among our high individual and team performance targets, and protect against discrimination on any grounds performers decreased in 2018 to 6.6% for ensuring employees understand how they including disability and cover recruitment 2017: 7.1%, while the voluntary employee contribute to our overall business objectives.
and selection, performance management, turnover of recent hires increased to 14.5% Through increased investment in technology, career development and promotion, transfer, 2017: 12.2%.
We seek to reduce regretted we have also extended our global annual salary training, retraining including retraining, if turnover through more effective hiring and and incentive review process to cover 90% of needed, for people who have become induction, exit interviews, risk assessments employees 2017: 87%.
We encourage disabled, and reward.
Our Global Standard and retention plans.
participation in various employee share plans, for Inclusion and Diversity sets out how we A global business Employees by reporting region By geographical area Emerging Markets 43.7% Europe 29.0% US 19.8% 3 8 Established Rest of World 7.5% 2 4 7 11 1 10 6 9 5 64,600 employees 12 Co-locating around three strategic R&D centres 1.
Middle East Pacific New Zealand 9.8% and Africa 6,900 1,000 1,700 10.6% 1.6% All numbers as at 31 December 2018.
2.6% AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Business Review 39 Business Review Be a Great Place to Work continued foster an inclusive and diverse workforce scorecard target of 44.4% for this measure Sales and Marketing workforce composition where everyone feels valued and respected and compares favourably to external because of their individual ability and benchmarks.
Women are also currently Emerging Markets 59% perspective.
It describes the principles of promoted at a higher rate than men across all Established Markets 41% our commitment and provides a framework levels of seniority, positively impacting the for developing and implementing the people gender balance.
In 2018, AstraZeneca was plans needed to ensure we deliver these ranked 12th in the FTSE 100 for Women on principles consistently worldwide.
More Boards and seventh for Women on Executive information on our Global Policy framework Committees and Direct Reports.
can be found on page 43, our Code of Ethics on page 105, and our Global Policies and Our Women as Leaders programme aims to Standards can be found on our website, encourage more women into senior roles www.
approximately 600 women had completed important, not just for those who feel they have the programme by the end of 2018.
Of those seen or experienced unwelcome attention or Employee opinion surveys help us measure who provided feedback, 55% have either behaviour, but also to ensure that colleagues employee satisfaction and engagement, been promoted, or had their remit expanded, recognise the value they bring when they share and progress in our aim of being a great or been identified for future promotions.
In their different perspectives and ideas.
Comparing our most recent addition, we have developed womens integral to making the most of our diversity of survey December 2018 to the previous year networks in most countries, continued to hold thought, because it is the foundation of our December 2017, of the 17 items common womens summits in various locations around ability to innovate.
The Standards are being to both surveys, we improved in 11 items, the world and continued to support mentoring reinforced by specific training and education remained stable for four and saw minor relationships, for example introducing across the organisation on the importance of reductions -1% in the score for two mentoring by senior women for emerging speaking up which includes challenging items.
Importantly, we scored highly for talent in Operations.
behaviours that are inconsistent with our understanding of the future direction and Values and Code of Ethics, demonstrating strategy, and we saw good progress in In 2018, 80% of vacancies across the inclusive leadership and responding to opportunities for personal development top three levels of our organisation were allegations of misconduct.
We have multiple and growth and items around inclusion filled internally, reflecting our long-term channels available for reporting.
Allegations are and diversity where we are above the global commitment to develop high-quality leaders taken very seriously and handled in a manner high-performing norm.
We also exceeded and the rigour of our leadership succession that is sensitive to the confidentiality and our scorecard target for I would recommend planning.
To ensure our senior leadership security of those making a report and will be AstraZeneca as a great place to work.
Despite reflects our diverse geographic footprint, we subject to global oversight.
progress in the latest survey, there remains track the country of origin of senior leaders further opportunity for improvement around and reflect this in our diversity targets.
In Generate a passion for leadership communication and prioritisation.
2018, 19.4% of employees who are either people development members of the SET, or their direct reports, We encourage employees to take ownership Develop a strong and diverse have a country of origin that is an Emerging of their own development and expect leaders pipeline of leaders Market or Japan an increase from 5% in 2012 to spend time supporting their employees To foster innovation, we seek to harness and ahead of our 2018 target of 15%.
To support this, we have different perspectives, talents and ideas implemented a global platform to increase the as well as ensuring that our employees Diversity is integrated into our Code of Ethics visibility and accessibility of job opportunities reflect the diversity of the communities and associated workforce policy.
In addition to and received over 22,000 applications from in which we operate.
the two diversity metrics tracked in the internal candidates through this platform AstraZeneca scorecard representation of in2018.
As part of our commitment to inclusion women in senior roles and senior leadership and diversity, we have implemented country of origin that is an Emerging Market or In 2017, we implemented a best-practice numerous initiatives across the globe, Japan, on a bi-annual basis, the SET and cloud-based global learning management such as unconscious bias training, the Board are provided with a comprehensive system to ensure that opportunities to learn formation of various employee resource overview of the AstraZeneca workforce, are available to all employees.
In 2018, we groups such as an LGBT network and covering a wide range of metrics and measures continued to leverage this technology as part updated recruitment standards to ensure including trends around gender diversity, of our ambition to continuously transform the diverse candidate lists.
leadership ethnic diversity and age profile.
The learning culture in AstraZeneca.
SET is also provided with a quarterly summary Our commitments include a goal to increase of key workforce metrics, including gender Following the successful launch of Leading the number of women on our leadership diversity and leadership ethnic diversity.
Within People in 2017 a social online learning teams.
As shown in the gender diversity figure the US, we track overall ethnic minority platform aimed at managers, Leading Self on page 38, women comprise 50.1% of our representation, ethnic minority representation was rolled out across the organisation aimed at global workforce.
There were five women on in senior roles, and ethnic minority employees below manager level.
Over 5,400 our Board 42% of the total at the end of 2018 representation in succession plans.
employees have accessed this innovative, Shriti Vadera retired with effect from social online learning experience.
Below Board level, the In addition to the Global Standard on Inclusion piloted our Leading Business programme, representation of women in senior roles and Diversity, in 2018 we published new Global connecting 100 managers from all areas and ieroles at Career Level F or above which Standards on sexual harassment and bullying.
regions of AstraZeneca to develop their constitute the six highest bands of our Drawing on our commitment to respect and leadership capability.
We continue to see a employee population increased to 44.6% in equal opportunity, we aim to build a culture positive impact of these experiences in 2018 2017: 44.4%, which exceeded our where everyone feels safe to speak up.
This is engagement and retention measures.
40 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Human rights As outlined in the Manufacturing capabilities Safety Our Code of Ethics and Human Rights section on page 34, in January 2019 we made Statement commit us to respecting and the difficult decision to discontinue operations promoting international human rights not at our biologics manufacturing facilities at Vehicle collisions only in our own operations, but also in our Boulder and Longmont CO, US.
Collisions wider spheres of influence, such as our Year per million km Target third-party providers.
To that end, we In January 2019, we announced plans to 2018 3.74 3.58 integrate human rights considerations into realign R&D and parts of our Commercial 2017 4.05 3.76 ourprocesses and practices.
We are also business to ensure we can execute on our 2016 4.66 4.00 committed to ensuring that there is no priorities and strategy.
We have established 2015 baseline 4.13 modernslavery or human trafficking in our dedicated teams who, guided by a clear set of supply chains or any part of our business.
People Principles, will ensure the transition is Ourfull statement required under section 54 executed as quickly as possible, keep our of the UK Modern Slavery Act is available on employees regularly informed and treat them Work-related injuries our website, www.
fairly, and comply with local legislative and HR policies and practices, including consulting Reportable injury rate We support the principles set out in the with employee representatives as required.
Year per million hours worked Target UnitedNations Universal Declaration of 2018 1.31 1.50 Human Rights and the International Labour F or more information on our restructuring programme, 2017 1.48 1.60 see the Financial Review from page 74.
Organizations ILO standards on child labour 2016 1.57 1.69 and minimum wages.
We have been members 2015 baseline 1.78 of the United Nations Global Compact on Employee relations Data re-stated.
We seek to follow a global approach to employee relations guided by global We measure human rights by means of a labour As shown above, we made further progress employment principles and standards, local review survey every two years in all countries against our strategic targets in 2018, achieving laws and good practice.
We work to develop where we have a presence.
The review focuses a 26% reduction in the work-related injury rate and maintain good relations with local on ILO core themes, including freedom of and a 9% reduction in vehicle collision rate workforces and work closely with our association and collective bargaining, child from the 2015 baseline.
In addition, there were recognised national trade unions.
We also labour, discrimination, working hours and no work-related fatalities during 2018.
Building regularly consult with employee wages, including questions on the Living Wage.
on our previous success in establishing a representatives or, where applicable, trade Where local gaps to ILO minimum standards culture of health and wellbeing, we continue to unions, who share our aim of retaining key are identified, such as maternity leave or focus on active health promotion.
We have skills and mitigating job losses.
According to grievance procedures, we put in place local programmes to address all four essential our internal Human Rights survey carried out plans to close those gaps where allowed by health activities healthy eating and drinking, in 2016, 58% 106 countries surveyed of relevant national legislation.
Our reporting in physical activity, tobacco cessation and countries in which AstraZeneca operates this area is assured by Bureau Veritas.
mental wellbeing at 65% of our sites.
recognise and have a relationship with trade unions.
Where trade unions do not exist in an F or more information about the assurance provided In 2018, we carried out several activities area of operation, 99% of countries have by Bureau Veritas, see page 231. and initiatives focused on continuous established arrangements to engage similarly improvements in key risk areas, including with their workforce.
Our most recent survey In 2017, we signed up to the Fair Wage driver safety our highest risk for significant commenced in October 2018, with database.
These data are being used in our injury and fatalities, behavioural safety, conclusions due at the end of February 2019. end of 2018 survey to measure performance ergonomics, office safety, fall prevention, more independently and to inform future workplace pressure management and Safety, health and wellbeing direction in the fair living wage space.
We work to promote a safe, healthy and energising work environment for employees Managing change and partners.
Our standards apply globally We continue to implement plans to invest in and are stated in our Code of Ethics available our three strategic R&D centres in the US, UK on www.
We encourage and support diligence includes establishing and monitoring employees to relocate and have made good a set of safety, health and wellbeing targets progress.
For example, of the more than 2,500 aimed at supporting our people and keeping employees working in Cambridge, 569 have AstraZeneca among the sector leaders in relocated from other sites in the UK.
Our reporting in this area is in addition to the 1,100 employees hired the Sustainability Data Summary available on between 2015 and 2017, we hired a further www.
com sustainability and is 452 permanent employees in Cambridge in assured by Bureau Veritas.
We are using interim infrastructure in and around Cambridge to house these F or more information about the assurance provided by Bureau Veritas, see page 231. employees until our new site on the Cambridge Biomedical Campus is ready.
For employees who do not accept offers to relocate to Cambridge, we provide career support, outplacement support and competitive severance packages.
F or more information on this move, see Cambridge on page 27.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Business Review 41 Business Review Be a Great Place to Work continued Sustainability 1.
Broadening access to healthcare We aim to improve lives by increasing access to health We want to be valued and trusted by our stakeholders as a source of Priority areas Information in this Annual Report great medicines over the long term.
Disease prevention and treatment Emerging market healthcare, from page 32 That is why we are committed to Affordability Broadening access to healthcare, on page 43 operating in a way that recognises Investments in health systems Responsible R&D the interconnection between business The environments impact onhealth growth, the needs of society and the limitations of our planet.
Furthering ethics and transparency We commit to furthering ethics and transparency in everything we do delivering our business strategy in a way that broadens access Priority areas Information in this Annual Report to our medicines, minimises the Ethical business culture Code of Ethics and policy framework, on page 43 environmental footprint of our Inclusion & diversity Bioethics and responsible research, from page 44 products and processes, and Talent & workforce evolution Develop a strong and diverse pipeline of leaders, on page 40 Workforce wellbeing and safety Managing change and Employee relations, on page 41 ensures that ethics and transparency Responsible supply chain Safety, health and wellbeing, on page 41 Human rights Ethical supply chain management, from page45 underpin everything we do.
Human rights, on page 41 Community investment, on page 48 Sustainability strategy Our sustainability strategy is aligned with our 3.
Protecting the environment Purpose and business strategy, allowing us We strive to reduce environmental impacts on human health tomaximise the benefit for our patients, our and the natural world business, broader society and the planet.
Inlate 2018, a structured sustainability Priority areas Information in this Annual Report materiality assessment that engaged external Greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas, on page 46 and internal stakeholders reaffirmed our Waste Waste, on page 47 direction and refined the priority areas.
We Water Water, on page 47 measure our progress through annual and Product environmental stewardship Product environmental stewardship, on page 47 long-term targets.
We show performance in Pharmaceuticals in theenvironment Pharmaceuticals in theenvironment, on page 47 our Sustainability Data Summary located on www.
Benchmarking and assurance Recognition of our work in sustainability Learn more in our 2018 Sustainability Report available on our website, www.
DJSI Named in the Dow Jones Sustainability World and Europe Indices Attained industry-best scores for: Environmental Reporting, Labour Practice Indicators and Health Outcome Contribution ATMI Ranked ninth overall in the 2018 Access to Medicine Index Recognised for a Best Practice in Pricing and one of nine companies recognised for an Innovative Practice CDP Water A List among the top 1.5% of companies participating in CDPs water security programme for our commitment to transparency around environmental risks and demonstration of sustainable water management Climate change B List in recognition of our strategy and actions to reduce emissions and mitigate climate change Supplier Engagement leader board among the top 3% of companies assessed by CDP to be awarded a position on the leader board in recognition of our actions to reduce emissions and lower climate-related risks in the supply chain ISAE3000 Assured Bureau Veritas has provided independent external assurance to a limited level in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 ISAE3000, and in accordance with ISAE3410 Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements for the sustainability information contained within this Annual Report and Form 20-F For more information, see Sustainability: supplementary information on page 231 and the letter of assurance available on www.
42 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Sustainability governance 2.
Ethics and transparency These professionals also support our line Sustainability governance frames the way we We want to be valued not only for our managers locally in ensuring that their staff operate.
Genevive Berger, a Non-Executive medicines but also for the way we work.
A network of nominated Director, oversees the implementation of our seek to operate in a transparent and ethical signatories reviews our promotional materials sustainability matters on behalf of the Board way and expect the same high standards from and activities against applicable requirements.
Our ambition is to be a leader in our suppliers and partners.
Whether it is Our Internal Audit Services, in partnership sustainability by delivering the strategy from investing in technological alternatives to with external audit experts, also conduct the materiality assessment.
Every member of animals in science for our research or refusing compliance audits on selected marketing the SET is accountable for a specific to tolerate bribery or any other form of companies.
Our reporting in relation to ethical sustainability initiative and Katarina Ageborg corruption, we aim to go beyond what is sales and marketing is assured by Bureau is responsible for the global strategy.
required of us to be an example of how good Veritas.
Our Sustainability Advisory Board SAB For more information about the assurance provided by Bureau Veritas, see page 231. comprises five SET members and four Code of Ethics and policy framework external sustainability experts.
It met twice in We are committed to employing high ethical Approximately 36,100 employees are engaged 2018 to provide guidance on strategic standards when carrying out all aspects of our in our commercial activities and, in 2018, we direction, recommendations for opportunities, business globally.
Our Code of Ethics the identified four confirmed breaches of external and insights and feedback.
Throughout the Code is based on our Values, expected sales and marketing regulations or codes year, we engaged with employees and behaviours and key policy principles.
There were 2,042 instances, most external stakeholders, including investors, empowers employees to make decisions in of them minor, of non-compliance with the Ministries of Health, healthcare providers, the best interests of the Group and the people Code or supporting requirements in our NGOs, patients and suppliers.
we serve, now and in the long term, by Commercial Regions, including instances by outlining our commitments in simple terms employees and third parties 2017: 1,431.
Broadening access to healthcare and focusing on why these commitments removed a total of 169 employees and third Marketplace from page 11 demonstrates the matter.
The Code also guides employees on parties from their roles as a result of these burden of NCDs, with 41 million deaths annually how to make the best day-to-day choices and breaches a single breach may involve more which disproportionately affects lowand how to act in a consistent, responsible way, than one person.
We also formally warned middle-income countries where nearly three worldwide.
There are two mandatory training 534 others and provided further guidance or quarters of these deaths occur.
In Return to courses dedicated to the Code: one is for new coaching on our policies to 1,865 more.
The Growth from page 29, we review how, as a starters: the second is the annual training for Audit Committee are provided with the breach business focused on medicines for NCDs, we all employees, reminding them of the key statistics on a quarterly basis.
Further aim to meet the challenges posed in each of our commitments.
In 2018, 100% of all active commentary on the most serious breaches Regions, particularly for those patients in employees completed the annual training on isalso provided to the Audit Committee.
Emerging Markets who may need help to the Code of Ethics.
access our medicines and where barriers to Anti-bribery anti-corruption healthcare are not always pricing related.
The Code includes four high-level Global Anti-bribery anti-corruption is a key element Policies covering Science, Interactions, of our policy framework, with principles and Our activities demonstrate how we are Workplace and Sustainability.
These Global requirements underpinning the Code working to improve access to healthcare Policies will continue to be complemented by commitment that we do not tolerate bribery by making our medicines available and more underlying Global Standards and will, over orany other form of corruption.
We conveyed affordable to people on a commercially time, replace the current suite of Global our commitment to ethical behaviour in the and socially sustainable basis.
Through Policies which are published on our website, 2018 annual Code training, reinforced through partnerships with government and NGOs, www.
Our policy framework anti-bribery anti-corruption training materials we develop health systems infrastructure also includes additional requirements at the delivered and made available to relevant by building capacity to help improve access global, local and business unit level to support employees and third parties.
to medical treatment and care.
employees in their daily work.
Bribery and corruption remains a business risk Disease prevention is the focus of the Young Ethical sales and marketing as we launch new medicines in markets across Health Programme YHP, our award-winning We are committed to employing high ethical the globe and enter into partnerships and global disease prevention programme.
standards of sales and marketing practice collaborations.
When working with third worldwide, in line with our policy framework.
parties, we are committed to working only with For more information on YHP, see page 48.
We maintain a robust compliance programme those who embrace high standards of ethical in our efforts to ensure compliance with all behaviour consistent with our own.
Bribery and To address local needs, our programmes are applicable laws, regulations and adopted corruption risk is a focus of our third-party risk typically governed by their respective industry codes.
As outlined in Global management process, as well as our Business commercial markets.
The process includes Compliance and Internal Audit Services Development due diligence procedures.
It is setting and measuring performance towards onpage 105, our compliance programme also a focus of our monitoring and audit targets.
We have internal targets and our isdelivered by dedicated compliance programmes.
Global Compliance monitors a annual Sustainability Report lists our external professionals who advise on and monitor range of commercial activities associated with targets and progress.
We undergo third-party adherence to our policy framework.
bribery and corruption risk, and the majority of assurance for these external targets and our marketing company audits include anti-bribery reporting in this Annual Report is assured by anti-corruption work programmes.
Bureau Veritas for more information see page 231.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Business Review 43 Business Review Be a Great Place to Work continued Transparency reporting Clinical trials AstraZeneca is committed to the highest We believe that transparencyenhances standards of conduct in all our operations, the understanding of how our medicines including the disclosure of payments to work and benefit patients.
At 100% healthcare practitioners HCPs, healthcare www.
com, 100% of all active employees organisations HCOs and patient groups, wepublish information about our clinical completed training on our withfull transparency where recipients have research, as well as the registration and Code of Ethics provided consent and in accordance with all results of our clinical trials regardless of current obligations covering the 43 markets whether they are favourable for all products with reporting requirements.
In the US, Europe, and all phases, including marketed medicines, Australia and Japan our external transparency drugs in development and drugs where Our commitment reporting meets the requirements of the development has been discontinued.
Physician Payments Sunshine Act Open to working in a Payments, European Federation of In 2018, we conducted a range of clinical trials transparent and Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations across regions as shown in the charts on the EFPIA Disclosure Code, Medicines Australia right.
This broad span helps ensure that study ethical manner is MA Code of Practice, and the Japanese participants reflect the diversity of patients essential to achieving Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association forwhom our medicines are intended and scientific leadership JPMA Disclosure Code, as well as applicable identifies the patients for whom the medicine local and state transparency requirements.
Our global governance and delivering lifeFurther, we have progressive plans to expand process provides the framework for ensuring changing medicines.
our disclosure activities in another six markets aconsistent, high-quality approach worldwide.
across Canada, Latin America, Asia Pacific, Protecting participants throughout the trial North Africa and the Middle East regions over process is a priority and we have strict the next two years.
We are progressively procedures to help ensure participants heading towards increased disclosure in arenotexposed to unnecessary risks.
additional markets globally and, in all locations, we are committed to ensuring payments are All our clinical studies are designed and finally justified and reasonable.
Some are conducted by contract research organisations CROs on our Bioethics and responsible research behalf and we require these organisations to Our commitment to working in a transparent comply with our global standards.
and ethical manner is essential to achieving scientific leadership and delivering lifeAs of 31 December 2018, we shared changing medicines.
Bioethics refers to the anonymised individual patient-level data range of ethical issues that arise from the from 136 studies with 37 research teams study and practice of biological and medical and responded to 111 requests from science, and our Bioethics Policy sets out our external researchers using our portal, principles in key subject matter areas.
com principles apply to all our research activity, to request our clinical data and reports to whether conducted by us or by third parties support additional research.
In 2018, we acting on our behalf.
The following sections continued to participate in the industry-wide summarise our activities in the main areas, portal www.
com where we and our Bioethics Policy is available on our publish Trial Result Summaries in easy-towebsite, www.
understand language and translate these to the local language for all sites where a Our Bioethics Advisory Group BAG is study is conducted.
As of 31 December 2018, sponsored by the Chief Medical Officer and we published Trial Result Summaries for 66 exists to oversee the operation of the Bioethics AstraZeneca studies.
It acts as a source of bioethical advice For more information, see our website, to the business, bringing together the subject www.
com, or our clinical trials website, matter leads for each of the key bioethical www.
areas, supported by other experts and specialists.
BAG receives reports on governance and practice from subject matter leads, responds to requests for advice and support from the business, and carries out horizon-scanning activities to identify emerging scientific, technological and regulatory issues.
Ethical discussions in 2018 included the potential therapeutic use of human stem cells in patients, the implications of continuing advances in precise genome editing technologies, and issues around consent and withdrawal of consent for use of patient samples and data.
44 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Research use of human biological samples 3Rs, achievements in openness about the use Clinical trials by region The use of human biological samples, such as of animals and the best examples of a caring solid tissue, biofluids and their derivatives, plays research culture.
Each year, one of the 3Rs Small molecule studies a vital role in developing a deeper understanding award winners is further selected to receive a of human diseases and their underlying CEO Award for the 3Rs.
In 2018, this went to a Europe 16% mechanisms, which helps us develop effective, group who achieved a six-fold reduction in the US Canada 22% new and personalised medicines.
numbers of mice needed for particular studies Asia Pacific 20% by the application of novel experimental Central Eastern Europe 26% When we conduct this important research, design.
C-SAW also promotes global learning Japan 3% wemaintain policies and processes to ensure and continuing professional development Latin America 10% that we comply with the law, meet regulatory opportunities for employees working with Middle East concerns and maintain ethical standards.
We animals and provides general information and Africa 3% place an emphasis on informed consent that andeducation opportunities both within protects the rights and expectations of donors andoutside AstraZeneca.
and families throughout the process of our Biologics studies acquisition, use, storage and disposal of the Animal research use varies depending on many samples.
Protecting the confidentiality of a interrelated factors, including our amount of Europe 24% donors identity is of the utmost importance, pre-clinical research, the nature and complexity US Canada 21% and a key part of our process includes the of the diseases under investigation and Asia Pacific 22% coding of biological samples and associated regulatory requirements.
We believe that Central Eastern Europe 17% data including genetic data.
without our active commitment to the 3Rs, our Japan 5% animal use would be much greater.
In 2018, Latin America 9% In rare circumstances, we may use human animals were used for in-house studies Middle East 1 fetal tissue hFT or human embryonic stem 121,823 times 2017: 131,615.
In addition, and Africa 2% cells hESC.
In these circumstances, an animals were used on our behalf for CRO internal review of the scientific validity of the studies 29,853 times 2017: 28,545.
In total, research proposal will be conducted and over 97% were rodents or fish.
Patient safety permission to use the tissue will be granted One of our core Values is to put patients first only when no other scientifically reasonable Technology has not yet advanced to the stage and, by detecting, assessing, understanding alternative is available.
We also insist our where animal use can be eliminated, and and preventing adverse effects or any other third-party vendors adopt the highest ethical animal studies therefore remain a small, but drug-related problems not identified during the standards and we rigorously assess the ability necessary, part of the process of developing development process, our pharmacovigilance of tissue suppliers to meet our quality and new drugs.
We are alert to the issues around processes and systems seek to minimise the ethical expectations.
We are committed to the use of animals and are working constantly risks and maximise the benefits of our minimising the use of fetal tissue by exploring to ensure our animal studies are properly medicines for patients.
1 2018 figure includes some animals used only for breeding.
For all our medicines, under development as In 2018, an additional research proposal that well as on the market, we have systems in place includes use of cells derived from hFT was For more information, see our 2018 Sustainability Report for identifying and evaluating possible adverse approved, resulting in three projects using available on our website, www.
Information concerning the safety hFT having progressed as at 31 December.
profile of our medicines is provided to An additional three projects using hESC were regulators, healthcare professionals and, where approved in 2018, resulting in nine projects Ethical supply chain management appropriate, patients.
Each medicine has a using 13 different hESC lines or derived cells Every employee and contractor who sources dedicated safety team, which includes a having been approved to date.
goods and services on behalf of AstraZeneca responsible global safety physician and one or is expected to follow responsible business more pharmacovigilance scientists.
Marketing Animal research processes, which are embedded into our companies have assigned patient safety We are committed to helping the public newly updated Global Standard for the managers in place.
understand the continuing need for animals Procurement of Goods and Services.
All our in research, and our approach to replacing, procurement professionals receive detailed Our Chief Medical Officer is accountable for the reducing and refining our use of animals training on responsible procurement.
benefit and risk profiles of our products, the 3Rs.
providing medical oversight and enforcing risk Our ethical standards are integral to our assessment processes that help us make We share our 3Rs advances externally procurement and partnering activities and we efficient and informed decisions about patient through presentations at international monitor compliance through assessments and safety.
As part of our commitment to patient conferences and workshops, and contribute improvement programmes.
We work only with safety, in 2017, we developed an upgraded to the work of organisations and societies those suppliers whose standards of ethical safety signal management platform to provide supporting the 3Rs around the world.
Our behaviour are consistent with our own.
We will risk oversight for all our products.
Following an Chief Veterinary Officer leads the Council for not use suppliers who are unable to meet our extensive pilot test phase during 2018, we Science and Animal Welfare C-SAW, which standards.
Our Global Standard Expectation launched the platform across all marketed is the governance and oversight body for the of Third Parties is published on our website, products and continue to seek refinements to use of animals in research and development, www.
make it an industry leader in pharmacovigilance.
providing assurance to senior leaders on our We also began exploring the use of emerging responsible use of animals.
C-SAW drives To achieve this, we have an established technologies, such as automation support, initiatives on the 3Rs, openness about our use process for third party risk management.
This machine learning and digital communication of animals, and promotes a culture of care in process assesses risk based upon defined interfaces.
These tools will have the potential to the way we conduct our research.
These include risks related to bribery enhance our product safety evaluation, example, C-SAW runs an annual global and corruption, data privacy, the environment communication and risk mitigation capabilities.
awards scheme recognising excellence in the AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Business Review 45 Business Review Be a Great Place to Work continued and wages.
Each step of the process provides for previous years.
To support the achievement an additional level of assessment, and we of our targets, a resource efficiency capital conduct more detailed assessments on those fundhas been in place since 2015 to invest relationships identified as higher risk.
In 2018, $19 million 12,967 this risk-mitigation process, we seek to better 2017:$19 million was committed to resource 12,967 assessments of suppliers understand the partners risk approach and efficiency projects at our manufacturing and in 2018 to ensure they meet our seek to ensure the partner understands and R&D sites, and a further $15 million has been ethical standards can meet our standards.
We conducted a total of 12,967 assessments Greenhouse gas in 2018, taking our total number of We are working to reduce our GHG emissions $19m assessments to 27,257 since we established by, among other things, investment in $19 million committed to this process in May 2014.
Of the assessments improving energy and fuel efficiency and resource efficiency projects at undertaken in 2018, 3,390 were in the Asia pursuing lower-carbon alternatives to fossil our manufacturing and R&D Pacific region, 4,035 in Europe and 3,965 in fuels, utilising a hierarchy approach of sites in 2018 the Americas.
The remaining 1,577 avoiding emissions where possible, reducing assessments relate to global suppliers and emissions from necessary activities, and those based in the Middle East and Africa.
substituting our energy sources for lower carbon alternatives.
During 2018, we made In 2018, we conducted 45 audits on high-risk progress towards our verified science-based We follow the science suppliers external manufacturing partners, targets for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions seeking to ensure that they employ through increased fuel efficiency of our to protect the planet appropriate practices and controls.
Eighty commercial sales fleet and procurement of by managing our six percent of these suppliers met our electricity from certified renewable sources expectations, with a further 14% implementing increasing to represent 69% of total electricity impact on the improvement plans to address minor imports.
Our total Scope 1 and Scope 2 environment across instances of non-compliance.
Through our emissions have been reduced by 31% from all our operations.
due diligence process, we rejected seven our 2015 baseline.
We have continued to make suppliers because of reputational concerns progress on our science-based targets for due to high anti-bribery anti-corruption risk.
Scope 3 emission sources through continued achievement in switching freighting of goods 3.
Protecting the environment from air to sea and improved accounting of We follow the science to protect the planet by our Scope 3 footprint that will lead to future managing our impact on the environment across efficiency improvements.
Including emissions all our operations.
Our Code of Ethics is the from patient use of our inhaler therapies, our overarching document for our environmental operational GHG footprint totalled 1,769,110 management system.
It applies to all functions metric tonnes in 2018, a reduction of 0.4% and locations and is supported by global from our 2015 baseline.
standards and procedures that establish F or more information on our pressurised metered dose mandatory requirements in key risk areas.
inhaler pMDI therapies, see the Product environmental Wemonitor and manage performance through stewardship section opposite.
comprehensive assurance programmes that include performance reporting and internal Energy use auditing.
We are on track to deliver our 2016 To reduce GHG emissions, we recognise to2025 natural resources targets.
theneed to reduce our demand for energy inthe first instance, maximise the efficiency Our 2018 targets against a 2015 baseline ofthe energy we do use and, where feasible, included: substitute our energy use with renewable sources.
Due to anticipated net increase reducing our operational greenhouse gas inactivity across our site network in 2018, GHG footprint in line with our approved weaimed to limit increases in total energy Science Based Target consumption to 2% above our 2015 baseline.
limiting the increase in our energy Over the same period, we completed seven consumption to no more than 2% to in-depth energy audits to identify new 1,841GWh opportunities for energy efficiency that will limiting the increase in our waste generation beimplemented over the next three years.
to less than 7% to 32,811 tonnes 3 In2018, our energy use was 1,854 GWh, reducing water use by 7% to 4.03millionm.
We have made further progress on our target to use 100% renewable The table opposite provides data on our global power by 2025.
In 2018, we used certified zero GHG emissions, energy use, waste production emission power equivalent to 61% of total and water consumption for 2018.
The data power consumption, including 3,358 MWh coverage includes 100% of our owned and ofrenewable power generated on our sites.
Regular review of the data is carried out to ensure accuracy and F or more information on GHG emissions reporting, see consistency.
This has led to changes in the data Sustainability: supplementary information on page 231.
46 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Waste chlorofluorocarbons they replaced, they are Operational greenhouse gas Waste management is another key aspect of still potent greenhouse gases.
During 2018, we footprint emissions tonnes COe our commitment to minimise environmental initiated a project spanning all key functions in 2018 1,769,110 impact.
Due to anticipated growing activity the business to investigate options available 2017 1,705,047 across our site network in 2018, we aimed to from an environmental, technical, regulatory, 2016 1,683,959 limit increases in our waste volumes to a 7% medical and commercial viewpoint.
In 2018, our environmental review includes life-cycle total waste was 31,500 metric tonnes, a 3% assessment LCA of current products and increase on 2015.
As waste generation is potential options, ecotoxicity and fate studies 1,769,110 tonnes COe linked to production volumes, our waste of alternative propellants and an initial pilot reduction ambitions are going to be study for pMDI take-back and recycling challenged as our business grows.
It is imperative that decisions to Energy consumption MWh we are focusing on processes to boost our address the product use phase GHG footprint 2018 1,853,813 operational efficiency and investing in waste do not substitute the climate impact for another 2017 1,745,547 reduction projects to help us reach our target environmental impact.
2015 1,805,236 While waste prevention is an essential goal, Pharmaceuticals in the environment we seek to maximise treatment by material We aim to lead our industry in understanding recycling and avoiding landfill disposal when and mitigating the effects of pharmaceuticals 1,853,813 MWh prevention is impractical.
An estimated 98% of % total energy from renewables 2018 29% pharmaceuticals get into the environment as a 2017 27% Water result of patient use excretion or improper 2016 25% We recognise the need to use water disposal.
While API discharge from 2015 6% responsibly and, where possible, to minimise production is only a small proportion of the Waste production tonnes water use in our facilities.
In 2018, we targeted environmental burden, it is the part we as an a 7% reduction from our 2015 water use.
In industry can deal with directly.
We manage 2018 31,500 3 2018, our water footprint was 4.01 million m, the manufacturing discharge of our APIs in a 2017 31,063 an 8% reduction.
Water reduction and reuse responsible manner to ensure that we do not 2016 31,791 projects throughout our site network have exceed the safe discharge standards set for 2015 30,665 improved the efficiency of water use across our own manufacturing sites and those of key our operations.
Our major sites and those in suppliers.
We review compliance with these 31,500 tonnes water-stressed areas work to Water safe discharge standards annually.
Using a Conservation Plans to ensure we are concept called ecopharmacovigilance, we managing our water risks and to facilitate review emerging science and literature for Water use million m sharing of best practice in water stewardship new information that might change the way we around our site network.
assess and manage any environmental risks 2018 4.01 associated with our products through patient 2017 3.89 Product environmental stewardship use and API production.
A thorough 2016 4.02 We are committed to ensuring effective assessment of the environmental risks 2015 4.34 environmental management of our products resulting from the patient use of all our APIs from pre-launch through to product end-ofhas indicated that all our medicines currently 4.01 million m life.
We work at all stages of a medicines pose low or insignificant environmental risk.
life-cycle from the design of API production and formulation processes, devices and We also conduct collaborative research to 1 packaging through distribution, patient use understand the fate, behaviour and impact of Regular review of the data is carried out to ensure accuracy and consistency.
This has led to changes in the data from and final disposal.
The majority of adjustments made are not we co-authored 21 peer-reviewed material individually, except for business air travel new As part of our progress towards our 2025 publications to enhance our knowledge of data supplier, leading to restated baseline and product usephase recalculated using improved life-cycle environmental targets, our 2018 targets the risks associated with this emerging issue.
The data quoted in this Annual included: Reportaregenerated from the revised data.
As part of our progress towards our 2025 Safe API discharges for AstraZeneca sites environmental targets, our 2018 targets 100% and globally managed first tier included: suppliers 90%.
Target met safe API discharges confirmed.
management of PIE through our ecopharmacovigilance programme.
Our pMDI therapies rely on hydrofluoroalkane Targetmet programme delivered.
HFA propellants, which are emitted during use Further information on our efforts in this area, including and disposal, and contribute to our Scope 3 environmental risk assessment data for our medicines, GHG footprint.
While HFAs have no ozone is available on our website, www.
com depletion potential and a third or less of the sustainability .
global warming potential than the AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Business Review 47 Business Review Be a Great Place to Work continued Community investment Making a positive impact on our communities Donation programmes Wherever we work in the world, we aim to is also about volunteering.
We encourage our In some countries, such as the US, where make a positive impact on our communities.
employees to volunteer and support their many individuals remain without insurance Our Global Standard on Contributions efforts with one days leave for community and cannot afford our medications, we offer encompasses community investment and service.
In 2018, our employees volunteered a free drug patient assistance programme provides guidance to ensure a consistent, more than 39,000 hours on community AZ&Me for qualifying patients.
In other transparent and ethical approach around the projects in countries around the world.
countries with evolving health systems, we world, based on local need.
Our activities are partner to address challenges in access with For more information on the Step Up!
Young focused on healthcare in the community and a combination of donated products and Health Global Grants Programme, visit supporting science education.
They include financial support to build capacity and www.
In Cambodia, since For more information on the AstraZeneca HealthCare In 2018, we gave more than $57 million 2010, our partnership with Americares and the SM Foundations Connections for Cardiovascular Health 2017: $25 million through our community Sihanouk Hospital Centre of Hope SHCH has programme, visit www.
investment activities to more than 1,000 supported the Cambodia Breast Cancer F or more information on the AstraZeneca HealthCare non-profit organisations in 70 countries.
The partnership aims to strengthen Foundation, see the Glossary on page 240.
The increase reflects a change in practice existing treatment services while expanding with more large multi-year agreements with in scale to reach additional patients.
In 2018, Young Health Programme payments being made in the first year of the the programme screened 963 new patients: Non-communicable disease NCD prevention agreement.
The amount includes more than provided information on early detection and among young people continued to be an $17.5 million 2017: $4 million for product screening to more than 14,700 individuals: area of focus as we mark the ninth year of donations that were given in support of public diagnosed 93 cases of breast cancer and our award-winning Young Health Programme health needs and disaster relief.
The increase continued to treat 661 patients who were YHP.
Despite the fact that more than two reflects changes in the volume and mix of previously diagnosed: and administered thirds of premature deaths from NCDs can product donated.
In addition to these more than 24,000 units of free AstraZeneca be linked to behaviours that first began in community investments, we also donated medicines to post-menopausal breast cancer adolescence, young people and their health more than $686 million 2017: $401 million patients in the SHCHs treatment cohort.
continues to be an under-recognised, of medicines in connection with patient For more information about AZ&Me, see page 31. under-served and under-researched assistance programmes around the world, component of the global health agenda.
the largest of which is our AZ&Me programme In 2018, we reached nearly 335,000 young in the US.
Non-Financial Information Statement people with health information on NCDs Under sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006, as introduced by the For more information about AZ&Me, see page 31. and risk behaviours and trained more than Companies, Partnerships and Groups 5,500 peer educators and healthcare workers.
Accounts and Non-Financial Reporting In partnership with local governmental and Regulations 2016, AstraZeneca is required to Our global disaster relief partner is the non-governmental groups, we launched include, in its Strategic Report, a British Red Cross.
In 2018, we entered into non-financial statement containing certain new programmes in Indonesia, Serbia, Turkey a two-year partnership that will support information.
As required by the Regulations, and Australia and approved the development humanitarian aid to people affected by the Strategic Report contains information on of new programmes in Vietnam, Myanmar, the following matters: armed conflict in Northern Nigeria.
Our global Mexico and Panama.
This brings the total product donation partners are Americares, Environmental matters on pages 46-47 number of developing and active YHP Direct Relief International and Health Partners and page 231 initiatives to 20. International of Canada.
Employees from page 38 Social matters from page 42 We supported our partners, NCD Child and Respect for human rights on page 41 In 2018, we launched the Step Up!
Young Anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters Plan International, as they advocated for Health Global Grants Programme.
Designed to from page 43 the inclusion of adolescent health and NCD complement our work in the field of adolescent prevention in the Political Declaration on References to our policies, due diligence health and NCD prevention, this programme NCDs and at the United Nations Third High processes and information on how we are offered grants of up to $10,000 to non-profit performing against various measures in Level Meeting on NCDs.
We invested in organisations that are innovating to improve these areas, are contained throughout the new research on adolescent risk behaviours, the health and wellbeing of young people.
Information on the Groups policy recommendations and health economic Principal Risks are included in Risk total of $160,375 of funding was committed analyses to support the argument for additional Overview from page 70 and information on through this programme in 2018 for 17 projects the non-financial key performance indicators investment in and attention to NCD prevention in 14 countries.
relevant to our business is included in Key among young people.
We continued to mentor Performance Indicators from page 20. and support the development of young global A description of our business model is We continue to support Connections for health leaders by sending a delegation of contained in Business model and life-cycle SM Cardiovascular Health, a programme of of a medicine from page 8.
20 young people to the One Young World the AstraZeneca HealthCare Foundation Summit in The Hague, Netherlands.
that was launched in 2010 to address heart health in the US.
In 2018, the AstraZeneca YHP was named Community Investment HealthCare Foundation provided $1.16 million Program of the Year by Ethical Corporations in grants to 11 non-profit organisations for 2018 Responsible Business Awards.
programmes that aim to help prevent, better manage and reduce cardiovascular disease.
Further information on YHP can be found on its website, www.
Learn more in our 2018 Sustainability Report on www.
48 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report There is a critical unmet need in Since the initial approval of Lynparza the treatment of advanced ovarian four years ago, the ovarian cancer and cancer: only 20% of women will be overall PARP inhibitor environment cured and more than 70% will relapse has become increasingly competitive within three years following their but, with SOLO-1, AstraZeneca and initial therapy.
The best opportunity MSD have the potential to transform to achieve sustained remission, with the standard of care for women potential for a cure, is to treat patients with advanced BRCA-mutated when they are newly diagnosed.
ovarian cancer, while reinforcing However, current treatment options the importance of testing for BRCA only provide a modest improvement mutations at the time of diagnosis.
Once a patient relapses their disease is considered incurable and, for the majority of women, they go on to receive multiple lines of treatment.
By using Lynparza maintenance therapy earlier in the treatment pathway, the SOLO-1 trial results show that 60% of newly-diagnosed patients with a BRCA mutation remain progression-free at three years compared to 27% of patients receiving placebo.
At 41 months, the median progression-free survival PFS see Glossary on page 241 had not been reached for patients treated with Lynparza, compared to 13.8 months for patients treated with placebo, indicating that there may be a group of patients who continue to remain progression-free for a long time or, perhaps, are cured.
20% Only 20% of women will be cured of ovarian cancer 70% will relapse within help find a cure three years following their initial therapy Science for ovarian cancer can A portfolio of DNA damage response inhibitors that selectively kill cancer cells while minimising the impact on normal cells.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Business Review 49
