Strategic Report Business Review The Company may use derivatives which will be principally, but Business Model not exclusively, for the purpose of efficient portfolio management Business and Status i. e. for the purpose of reducing, transferring or eliminating The Company is an investment company within the meaning of investment risk in its investments, including protection against section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and carries on business currency risks.
Investment trusts are UK public listed The Company recognises the long term advantages of gearing companies and their shares are traded on the London Stock and has a maximum equity gearing level of 30% of shareholders Exchange.
They invest in a portfolio of assets in order to spread funds.
The Company has a fixed share capital, although, subject to shareholder approval sought annually, it may purchase its own Borrowings are invested in securities when it is considered that shares or issue shares.
The price of the Companys shares is investment grounds merit the Company taking a geared position.
determined, like other listed shares, by supply and demand.
Gearing levels, and the extent of equity gearing, are discussed by The Company has obtained approval as an investment trust from the Board and Managers at every Board meeting.
HM Revenue & Customs subject to the Company continuing to A detailed analysis of the Companys Investment Portfolio is set meet the eligibility conditions.
The Directors are of the opinion out on pages 14 to 18 and in the Managers Report and Review that the Company has continued to conduct its affairs so as to of Investments.
enable it to comply with the ongoing requirements of section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and the Investment Trust Performance Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011.
At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of performance measures to assess the Companys success in The Company is an Alternative Investment Fund AIF for the purposes of the EU Alternative Investment Fund Managers achieving its objectives.
Key Performance Indicators Objective and Policy The key performance indicators KPIs used to measure the The Baillie Gifford Japan Trust aims to achieve long term capital progress and performance of the Company over time are established industry measures and are as follows: growth principally through investment in medium and smaller sized Japanese companies which are believed to have above the movement in net asset value per ordinary share average prospects for growth, although it invests in larger compared to the benchmark: companies when considered appropriate.
the movement in the share price: The Companys holdings are generally listed in Japan although the premium discount of the share price to the net asset the portfolio can also include companies listed elsewhere value per share: and whose business is predominantly in Japan as well as unlisted companies.
From time to time, fixed interest holdings, or non the ongoing charges.
equity investments, may be held.
An explanation of these measures can be found in the Glossary of The portfolio is constructed through the identification of individual Terms on page 57. companies which offer long term growth potential, typically over a The one, five and ten year records for the KPIs can be found on three to five year horizon.
The portfolio is actively managed and pages 4 to 6. does not seek to track the benchmark: hence a degree of volatility In addition to the above, the Board considers peer group against the index is inevitable.
In constructing the equity portfolio a spread of risk is achieved by diversifying the portfolio through investment in 40 to 70 holdings.
Borrowings Although sector concentration and the thematic characteristics of Total borrowings at 31 August 2018 were 16.5 billion and are the portfolio are carefully monitored, there are no maximum limits detailed in note 12 on page 43.
During the year, the Company to deviation from benchmark stock or sector weights except as entered into a new seven year, 9.3bn fixed term facility with ING imposed by banking covenants on borrowings.
Bank N. V. which expires in November 2024 and is fully drawn.
3.0bn drawn down under the Scotiabank 3.0bn revolver facility On acquisition, no holding shall exceed 5% of the portfolio at was repaid, however, the facility remains in place, expiring in the time of purchase and any holding that as a result of good August 2020. performance exceeds 5% of the portfolio is subject to particular scrutiny.
A holding greater than 5% will only be held where the Currency Hedging Managers continue to be convinced of the merits of the It is extremely difficult to predict currency movements and investment case.
currencies can appear cheap or dear for long periods of time.
On acquisition, no more than 15% of the Companys gross assets The Board remains of the view that it will not engage in currency will be invested in other UK listed investment companies.
The Baillie Gifford Japan Trust PLC 07 Strategic Report published Interim and Annual Report and Financial Statements, Principal Risks are subject to stringent review processes and procedures are in As explained on page 24 there is an ongoing process for place to ensure adherence to the Transparency Directive and the identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Market Abuse Directive with reference to inside information.
The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, Custody and Depositary Risk safe custody of the Companys including those that would threaten its business model, future assets may be compromised through control failures by the performance, solvency or liquidity.
A description of these risks and Depositary, including cyber security incidents.
To mitigate this risk, how they are being managed or mitigated is set out below: the Audit Committee receives six monthly reports from the Depositary confirming safe custody of the Companys assets held Financial Risk the Companys assets consist of listed securities by the Custodian.
Cash and portfolio holdings are independently and its principal financial risks are therefore market related and reconciled to the Custodians records by the Managers.
The include market risk comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and Custodians audited internal controls reports are reviewed by other price risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of Baillie Giffords Internal Audit Department and a summary of the those risks and how they are managed is contained in note 18 to key points is reported to the Audit Committee and any concerns the Financial Statements on pages 45 to 48.
To mitigate this risk investigated.
In addition, the existence of assets is subject to annual the Board considers at each meeting various portfolio metrics external audit.
including individual stock performance, the composition and diversification of the portfolio by growth category, purchases and Smaller Company Risk the Company has investments in sales of investments, the holding period of each investment and smaller companies which are generally considered higher risk as the top and bottom contributors to performance.
The Manager changes in their share prices may be greater and the shares may provides rationale for stock selection decisions.
A strategy be harder to sell.
Smaller companies may do less well in periods meeting is held annually.
To mitigate this risk, the Board reviews the investment portfolio at each meeting and Investment Strategy Risk pursuing an investment strategy to discusses the investment case and portfolio weightings with the fulfil the Companys objective which the market perceives to be Managers.
A spread of risk is achieved by holding a minimum of unattractive or inappropriate, or the ineffective implementation of 40 stocks.
an attractive or appropriate strategy, may lead to reduced returns for shareholders and, as a result, a decreased demand for the Operational Risk failure of Baillie Giffords systems or those of Companys shares.
This may lead to the Companys shares trading other third party service providers could lead to an inability to at a widening discount to their Net Asset Value.
To mitigate this risk, provide accurate reporting and monitoring or a misappropriation the Board regularly reviews and monitors: the Companys objective of assets.
To mitigate this risk, Baillie Gifford has a comprehensive and investment policy and strategy: the investment portfolio and business continuity plan which facilitates continued operation of its performance: the level of premium discount to Net Asset Value the business in the event of a service disruption or major disaster.
at which the shares trade: and movements in the share register.
The Audit Committee reviews Baillie Giffords Report on Internal Controls and the reports by other key third party providers are Discount Risk the premium discount at which the Companys reviewed by Baillie Gifford on behalf of the Board.
shares trade relative to its net asset value can change.
The risk of a widening discount is that it may undermine investor confidence Leverage Risk the Company may borrow money for investment in the Company.
The Board monitors the level of premium purposes sometimes known as gearing or leverage.
If the discount at which the shares trade and the Company has investments fall in value, any borrowings will magnify the extent of authority to buy back its existing shares when deemed by the this loss.
If borrowing facilities are not renewed, the Company Board to be in the best interests of the Company and its may have to sell investments to repay borrowings.
risk, all borrowings require the prior approval of the Board and leverage levels are discussed by the Board and Managers at Regulatory Risk failure to comply with applicable legal and every meeting.
Covenant levels are monitored regularly.
The regulatory requirements such as the tax rules for investment Companys investments are in listed securities that are readily companies, the UKLA Listing Rules and the Companies Act could realisable.
Further information on leverage can be found on lead to suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange listing, page 56 and in the Glossary of Terms on page 57. financial penalties, a qualified audit report or the Company being subject to tax on capital gains.
To mitigate this risk, Baillie Giffords Political Risk political developments are closely monitored Business Risk, Internal Audit and Compliance Departments and considered by the Board.
The Board has noted the provide regular reports to the Audit Committee on Baillie Giffords Governments intention that the UK will leave the European Union monitoring programmes.
Major regulatory change could impose on 29 March 2019.
Whilst there remains considerable uncertainty disproportionate compliance burdens on the Company.
In such at present, the Board will continue to monitor developments as circumstances representation is made to ensure that the special they occur and assess the potential consequences for the circumstances of investment trusts are recognised.
documents and announcements, including the Companys 08 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Viability Statement Environmental, Social and Governance Policy Details of the Companys policy on socially responsible investment Notwithstanding that the continuation vote of the Company is can be found under Corporate Governance and Stewardship on subject to the approval of shareholders annually, the Directors page 25. have, in accordance with provision C2.2 of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, assessed the prospects of the The Company considers that it does not fall within the scope of Company over a period of five years from the Balance Sheet date.
the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and it is not, therefore, obliged to The Directors continue to believe this period to be appropriate as make a slavery and human trafficking statement.
In any event, it reflects the Companys longer term investment strategy and to the Company considers its supply chains to be of low risk as its be a period during which, in the absence of any adverse change suppliers are typically professional advisers.
A statement by the Managers under the Act has been published on the Managers to the regulatory environment and to the tax treatment afforded to website at www.
UK investment trusts, they do not expect there to be any significant change to the current principal risks facing the Future Developments of the Company Company nor to the effectiveness of the controls employed to The outlook for the Company for the next 12 months is set mitigate those risks.
Furthermore, the Directors do not reasonably out in the Chairmans Statement on page 3 and the Managers envisage any change in strategy or any events which would Report on page 11. prevent the Company from operating over a period of five years.
In considering the viability of the Company, the Directors have conducted a robust assessment of each of the principal risks and uncertainties detailed on page 8 and in particular the impact of market risk where a significant fall in Japanese equity markets would adversely impact the value of the investment portfolio.
The Companys investments are listed and readily realisable and can be sold to meet its liabilities as they fall due, the main liability currently being the bank borrowings.
The Directors have also considered the Companys leverage and liquidity in the context of the unsecured fixed term loan facilities of 7.2bn and 9.3bn expiring in 2020 and 2024 respectively.
Specific leverage and liquidity stress testing was conducted during the year.
In addition, all of the key operations required by the Company are outsourced to third party service providers and it is reasonably considered that alternative providers could be engaged at relatively short notice.
Based on the Companys processes for monitoring revenue projections, share price premium discount, the Managers compliance with the investment objective, asset allocation, the portfolio risk profile, leverage, counterparty exposure, liquidity risk and financial controls, the Directors have concluded that there is a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next five years.
Employees, Human Rights and Community Issues The Board recognises the requirement to provide information about employees, human rights and community issues.
As the Company has no employees, all its Directors are non-executive and all its functions are outsourced, there are no disclosures to be made in respect of employees, human rights and community issues.
Further information on the Companys approach to environmental, social and governance ESG matters is provided on page 25.
Gender Representation The Board comprises six Directors, five male and one female.
The Company has no employees.
The Boards policy on diversity is set out on page 24.
The Baillie Gifford Japan Trust PLC 09
