STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS REVIEW Governance Our focus We are committed to ensuring that Healthier People our A Healthier Everyday strategy is Reducing the calories across our fully integrated across the business.
portfolio through reformulation, Each programme pillar has an Executive innovation and encouraging Director as its lead Healthier People: Chief healthier choices.
Marketing officer: Healthier Communities: Chief HR officer: and Healthier Planet: Chief The Issue Supply Chain officer and these individuals, Across all of our markets, society is together with the Strategy and Planning facing one of the largest public health Director, Strategic Programme Director and challenges in history, growing levels of Sustainability team make up the Sustainable obesity.
We have a responsibility to help Business Steering Group.
This group our consumers make healthier choices, oversees, on behalf of the Executive team, through information, responsible the development of Britvics A Healthier marketing and great tasting low Everyday strategy, reviews risks and calorie drinks.
In December 2017 we updated our opportunities relating to the sustainability sustainability strategy with a new identity agenda and monitors the performance A Healthier Everyday to better connect our against our sustainability KPIs.
sustainability framework for delivering our The Sustainable Business Steering Group trusted and respected ambitions with our meets on a monthly basis and provides wider business purpose of making lifes an update to the Executive team on Healthier Communities everyday moments more enjoyable.
The Board receives Our programmes and commitments Through our A Healthier Everyday bi-annual updates, which includes a KPI are designed to support good causes, framework we have identied and performance appraisal and a review of key promote and respect human rights, prioritised the sustainability issues most social and environmental risks and our and ensure fair, safe employment important to our business taking into strategic response.
for all of our direct employees and account stakeholder feedback as well as within our wider supply chain.
Our reporting emerging global environmental and societal The Issue Britvics 2018 Basis of Reporting is available trends.
We have developed targets and Our business is dependent on our on our website and outlines the scope strategies to manage these risks and communities: the suppliers that provide and methodological principles for the maximise value creation across the three our ingredients and services, the local collation of our key sustainability metrics.
pillar areas: Healthier People, Healthier communities where we operate and We continue to enhance the robustness Communities and Healthier Planet.
our employee community, without of our performance data and where any During the past twelve months weve seen which our business wouldnt exist.
misstatements have been identied in prior interest in plastic packaging and the damage year gures, these have been restated for it can cause to the natural environment accuracy within this report.
come to the fore: whilst societal issues Independent assurance such as health and obesity and climate Britvic plc appointed Ernst & Young LLP change continue to be important.
This has to provide limited independent assurance reiterated the importance of our A Healthier Healthier Planet over selected sustainability content within Everyday programme in delivering Minimising resource consumption the Strategic Report the Report, as at business success.
within our direct operations and and for the period ended 30 September This year we commenced work on minimising the environmental impact 2018.
The assurance engagement was extending our strategy horizon beyond of our products.
planned and performed in accordance 2020 to 2025.
This work, in partnership with the International Standard for The Issue with sustainability not-for-profit Forum for Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 In a world facing rapid environmental the Future, has focused on immersing the Revised, Assurance Engagements Other change and rising populations, natural business in global trends that represent Than Audits or Reviews of Historical resources are becoming increasingly opportunities and threats, and has identied Financial Information.
As a business we rely areas where we need to be proactive and on natural resources to produce our These procedures were designed to bold, generating positive impact where products and its important that we, conclude on the accuracy and completeness it is needed the most and at the speed along with others, play a proactive part of the sustainability performance indicators, and scale required.
Further information in minimising our environmental impact.
which are indicated in the Report with an will be released next year regarding our asterisk.
An unqualied opinion was issued and is available on Britvic.
com sustainable, along with further details of the scope, respective responsibilities, work performed, limitations and conclusions.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION We are committed to making a positive difference to the world around us helping to make it healthier, happier and more sustainable.
2018 performance 2019 targets 16% 3% reduction in the average calories per 250ml serve across reduction in the average calories per 250ml our global portfolio vs 2017 to 29.8kcal serve across our global portfolio vs 2018 to 28.9kcal 89% of our combined GB and Ireland portfolio is below exempt from the Soft Drinks Industry Levy and Sugar Sweetened Drinks Tax 90% of our innovation launched and in plan in GB and Ireland was in low no added sugar products 33% 38% of leadership roles across the Group are lled by women of leadership roles across the Group are represented by women 22% 35% of our GB and Ireland employees engaged in community activity of our European based employees get involved in community activity 71% 78% wellbeing score in the Great Place to Work survey across wellbeing score in the Great Place to Work survey the company 14% 5% reduction in manufacturing carbon emissions relative to reduction vs 2018 in carbon emissions relative to production vs 2017 production across our global manufacturing sites 99% 99.5% of manufacturing waste was diverted from landll diversion of waste from landll from global manufacturing sites 2.14 2.14 water ratio water consumption relative to production water ratio water consumption relative to production achieved across global manufacturing sites of global manufacturing sites Introduce rPET into our portfolio as we continue to 600 tonnes support the UK Plastic Pact of primary plastic packaging removed in GB through light-weighting Figure independently assured by Ernst & Young LLP BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 37 Alongside our reformulation and innovation activity, we have continued to promote healthy lifestyles through our brands.
In GB, 99% of our marketing spend targeted our low no added sugar products.
Fruit Shoot continued its partnership with Public Health Englands Change4Life programme with the Be Snack Smart campaign aimed at helping parents to encourage children to eat healthier snacks.
We continued to support our customers with promoting healthier options to consumers without any compromise on taste.
In collaboration with Britvic Ireland, University College Dublin became Irelands first exclusive low and no sugar campus as part of a seven-week pilot programme in which regular sugar-sweetened drinks were removed from the campus and replaced with low and no sugar options.
In a postpilot survey, three-quarters of the students and staff polled had switched to the healthier alternatives without experiencing any impact on taste.
STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED AVERAGE CALORIES PER 250ML SERVE Soft drinks levies and taxes This year we saw the introduction of the Soft Drinks Industry Levy SDIL 37.5 in the UK on 6 April and the Sugar 36.0 35.4 35.3 Sweetened Drinks Tax SSDT in HEALTHIER PEOPLE Ireland on 1 May.
Health has never been more important to 29.8 our consumers, with people taking a more Ahead of the introduction, 94% active interest in what they eat and drink of our owned brand portfolio was across our markets.
We remain committed below exempt from the levy in GB to helping consumers make healthier and 79% of our Ireland portfolio.
choices and live healthier lives.
Following the introduction of the levies, we have seen an accelerated Across our markets we continued to consumer transition away from higher reduce the sugar and calories within our sugar drinks, which has benefited our portfolio in 2018, with no compromise on portfolio of low and no sugar brands.
We achieved a 16% reduction in the average calories per 250ml serve since last Today, 99% of our GB owned brand year through a combination of reformulation, portfolio is below exempt from the SDIL innovation, responsible marketing activity 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 and in Ireland 90% of the owned brand and partnerships encouraging consumers portfolio is below exempt from the SSDT.
to choose our low no sugar options.
Total In 2018, we removed an additional 3.5bn portfolio Owned calories from GB diets through further below brand exempt portfolio reformulation of our existing portfolio.
including below With regard to innovation, in GB and PepsiCo exempt Ireland 90% of our innovation activity this GB 90% 99% year launched and planned was on low and no added sugar products, including Ireland 83% 90% the launch of Aqua Libra a sparkling GB & Ireland natural fruit-avoured water without combined 89% 98% sugar or sweeteners and with less than three calories per 330ml can.
In Ireland we also launched a new lemon-avoured Club Zero.
In Brazil we launched Maguary Uno, a concentrated juice that is already sweetened a first for the category.
This innovation encourages consumers to switch away from powdered soft drinks where sugar is added at point of consumption and instead choose pre-mixed cordials which have low sugar amounts per serve.
99% of our GB owned brand portfolio is below exempt from the sugar levy 90% of our Ireland portfolio is below exempt from the SSDT 38 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Employee health, safety Supplier community Our stakeholders rightly expect that the and wellbeing people in our supply chain who make, grow Commitment to the health, safety and or supply our materials and ingredients wellbeing of our employees remains at are treated fairly and their human rights the heart of our business.
We are committed to sourcing introduced our Safety Critical Rules across HEALTHIER COMMUNITIES the ingredients and materials that go into the business to ensure that employees our drinks in a responsible manner and Our long-term business success relies undertaking the highest-risk activities continually strive for the highest ethical on resilient, healthy and prosperous are trained to follow the correct safety standards, holding our suppliers and communities across all our markets.
We are procedures to avoid injury.
Across GB, partners to the same criteria.
proud of the positive contribution we make Ireland and International we also launched to society directly through the safe and our Safe Driving Policy, which outlines Our Ethical Business Policy details our inclusive jobs we provide and the support safety critical rules for driving.
This policy commitment to human rights and covers we give to charities, communities and will shortly be rolled out in France and bribery and corruption, conducting business good causes and indirectly through our Brazil.
Despite these measures, our with respect, integrity and equality, and wider supply chain with our commitment safety performance across the group managing personal activities and interests.
to human rights and responsible sourcing.
disappointingly deteriorated, with a Our approach is guided by international significant increase in the number of lostconventions and standards, including the Giving back time accidents resulting in a losttime United Nations UN Universal Declaration We want the communities in which injury frequency rate of 0.86.
This could of Human Rights and the UN Guiding we operate to thrive and, through our be attributed to improved classification of Principles on Business and Human Rights.
community support programmes, we offer accidents compared with previous years Our policy extends to our suppliers and a variety of mechanisms by which our or as a result of improved reporting of other trading partners and compliance employees can support their communities accidents that occur off-site when driving is monitored through our responsible including paid volunteering days, matched on company business or when working sourcing programme.
Regardless of the Through these initiatives and monetary This year we continued to advance our cause, the number is unacceptably high, donations, this year 22% of our GB and responsible sourcing programme and, and a programme will be launched next Ireland employee community participated following the integration of Brazil in 2018, year focusing on effective identification in giving back.
Our GB based employees updated our measurement and reporting and reporting of hazards, near misses participation levels fell this year from 31% processes to better reflect supply chain and behavioural safety observations to in 2017 to 23% but this can be attributed performance.
This has resulted in a change improve our safety performance.
to changes undertaken during the year in to the number of suppliers linked to us on In addition to providing a safe place to preparation for our new corporate charity Sedex, the supplier data platform that we work, were committed to providing an partnership, due to be launched in 2019. use, compared with last year but is a true emotionally and psychologically healthy reflection of our supply chain.
This year This year, our employee community activity environment where employees can be 57% of our direct suppliers were linked to was valued at 70,000.
Whilst this financial themselves and feel supported.
In this us on Sedex, with 25% of those suppliers contribution makes a huge difference to our years Great Place to Work survey we deemed as high-risk with Sedex Members communities, we know that the positive achieved a wellbeing score of 71% across Ethical Trade Audit SMETA 4 Pillar audits impacts stretch beyond this number, with the business, a change from 72% in 2017. in place.
We expect to significantly increase campaigns and events raising awareness The overall Trust Index score within the the percentage of suppliers linked to us in of important issues and strengthening the Great Place to Work survey also fell from 2019 as we continue the rollout of Sedex bond between our employees.
Our Britvic 75% in 2017 to 73% this year, although to our supply chain in Brazil.
Ireland team, together with their friends there were improvements in our Ireland and families, demonstrated this through Full details on our approach to preventing and Brazil business units.
We are confident their participation in the Darkness into Light modern slavery across our business that we understand the reasons for these 5km charity walk event to raise funds and can be found within our Modern Slavery changes and, with the plans we have in awareness for suicide prevention charity Statement published on our website at place for 2019 including dedicated resource Pieta House.
In France, our employees www.
and focus to enhancing our existing continued to support our partnership with employee wellbeing programme, that the skill-based charity Les Apprentis Auteuil.
Since 2016 we have donated 60,000 and directly supported more than 145 young people with skill-based training at our sites, ranging from catering to gardening.
MiWadi Trick or Treat for Temple Street MiWadi helped fund the new Neurology and Renal Outpatients Unit at Temple Street Childrens University Hospital, with 1.8 million raised through the MiWadi Trick or Treat for Temple Street campaign over five years.
Located in Dublin city centre, Temple Street is one of Irelands largest dedicated childrens hospitals, caring for over 145,000 children each year.
Figure independently assured by Ernst & Young LLP BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 39 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED female and 86% male in 2017 to 25% and Diversity and inclusion 75% respectively in 2018, following the At Britvic, creating an inspiring place to be appointment of Suniti Chauhan.
for our employees is critical to our vision of What is the gender pay gap?
becoming the most dynamic, creative and The gender pay gap is the difference Male Female trusted soft drinks company in the world.
between the average earnings of men Board 6 75% 2 25% We know that we will only achieve our and women across the organisation, ambitions if our workforce reflects the diverse Executive regardless of the nature of their work.
Committee 11 92% 1 8% communities that we serve and we create an It is different from equal pay.
Equal pay inclusive culture where each employee can Senior relates to men and women being paid managers truly be themselves and feel empowered equally for equivalent jobs.
This is a Band D 244 67% 121 33% and enabled to be the best they can be.
legal requirement in the UK and one All employees 3,404 72% 1,293 28% that Britvic believes in fully across all This approach is underpinned by our of our markets.
We are confident that commitment to providing equal opportunities We have taken several steps to deliver our men and women are paid equally for to our current and potential employees and Diversity and Inclusion Strategy in 2018: our equivalent work.
However, because applying fair and equitable employment leadership development programme has an different jobs pay differently and the practices.
We value diversity and we recruit equal intake of women and men, we have number of men and women performing and promote talent on the basis of ability, provided mentoring to high potential female these jobs varies, a gender pay skills, experience, behaviour, performance leaders and we supported the creation of a gap exists.
and potential for the job.
Our selection, Women@Britvic network.
To create a more training, development and promotion policies evenly balanced gender workforce in all ensure equal opportunities for all employees parts of our organisation we have increased regardless of factors such as age, disability the intake of women into our manufacturing GB Gender pay gap including colleagues who become disabled apprenticeship scheme and are promoting The following results show our GB gender during service, gender including gender careers in manufacturing in schools and pay gap at a snapshot date of 5 April 2018 reassignment, marital status, pregnancy and universities.
To ensure we make further for the 1,862 people who were employed maternity, race, nationality, religion or belief, progress on gender balance, we have by Britvic Soft Drinks Ltd.
This includes or sexual orientation.
We codify this through recruited a new role focused entirely on people at our Head Office in Hemel our Equality and Diversity policy, our Diversity diversity and inclusion to ensure that we Hempstead as well as manufacturing and Inclusion Strategy and our values.
deliver our strategy at pace.
and distribution sites around GB.
The overall gender balance across Of course, diversity is not simply about Our total gender pay gap favours women all employees within the business at gender and we recognise that building -17% median against the UK average of 30 September 2018 was 28% female an inclusive culture is key to our future 18% median.
The primary driver of this and 72% male.
This figure is indicative success.
This is why we have supported our is the structure of our workforce which, of our industry, with a high proportion employees to establish a Be Proud LGBTQ in line with the industry we operate in, is of operational employees typically being network in addition to our women@Britvic weighted towards our manufacturing and male and has remained static since the network.
Our French business has taken distribution operations, where the balance previous reporting period.
This year the steps to help people with disabilities access of the workforce is predominantly male representation of women in leadership and or remain in employment, including 8:1.
The roles in our manufacturing and roles remained the same at 33%.
We are building awareness of the impact of having distribution operations have, on average, taking steps to improve on this position a disability within our employee base, lower salaries than those in our office in 2019 so that we meet our target of supporting vocational rehabilitation centres functions.
We also have proportionally women holding at least 40% of leadership for disabled workers and participating in fewer women in our leadership roles positions by 2020.
Our Board level gender Linkday, a recruitment forum dedicated to that, on average, attract higher pay diversity increased this year from 14% supporting people with a disability.
Therefore, while the difference in median bonus is again weighted towards women -57%, the upper-quartile pay is predominantly made up of men 66.6%, versus 33.4% women Please note, the 2017 percentage of women represented in leadership positions was reported as 36% last year and has since been restated at 33%.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our GB gender balance Pay quartiles The gures below show our gender balance within each of our pay quartiles, with the lower quartile having the lowest-paid employees and the upper quartile having the highest-paid employees.
72% Male Upper quartile Male 66.6% Female 33.4% 28% Female Upper middle quartile Male 70.8% Female 29.2% Difference in pay between genders -4% -17% Lower middle quartile Male 83.6% Mean Median Female 16.4% The mean and median pay results reveal that on average, females are paid more than males on an hourly basis.
This is primarily because a large proportion of our workforce is made up of manufacturing, distribution support roles, and most of our employees are male.
This gender balance in our demographics inuences our gender pay gap.
Within the female population, we see proportionally more women in managerial roles, Lower quartile which means that women on average earn more than men.
Male 73.1% Female 26.9% However, we still have proportionally fewer women in senior leadership roles.
Proportion of male and females receiving a bonus Difference in bonus payments between genders 88% -57% of males received a bonus median bonus payments between genders The median bonus is -57% in favour of females.
This is because the structure of our workforce is weighted towards our manufacturing and distribution operations, where the balance of the workforce is predominantly male 8:1.
The roles in our manufacturing and distribution operations have, on average, lower bonuses than those in our ofce functions.
81% of females received a bonus 9% mean bonus payments between genders The mean bonus payment is 9% in favour of males.
All GB employees have the opportunity to receive a bonus This is driven predominantly because higher bonuses are in December each year, subject to scheme rules.
paid at a senior executive level which is predominantly male.
Figure independently assured by Ernst & Young LLP BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 41 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Water consumption in manufacturing was MANUFACTURING CARBON impacted again this year by the cleaning EMISSIONS INTENSITY KG required during testing and commissioning CO E TONNE PRODUCTION 2 of the new lines.
Our water intensity ratio 3 increased by 3% vs 2017 to 2.14 m tonne product.
Whilst none of our manufacturing sites were located in areas of high risk as determined by the World Business Council HEALTHIER PLANET for Sustainable Developments Aqueduct 30.23 We know that business has a vital role 30.02 water risk tool, we know that we have to play in tackling the environmental more work to do to reduce our water challenges facing our world today, and consumption and are designing strategies we are committed to playing our part.
to address this during the coming year.
We are focused on continually reducing the environmental impact of both our In line with our 2020 goal, we sent zero 26.00 own manufacturing operations and those waste to landll from our manufacturing within our wider value chain.
sites in GB and Ireland in 2018.
Our Brazil sites reduced waste to landll by 17% this Direct impact year, sending 306 tonnes, resulting in a total Our Healthier Planet strategy focuses on of 99% waste diverted from landll across reducing our direct environmental impact the Group.
In France, optimisation work on across our 13 manufacturing sites.
In 2018, the anaerobic digestor at our Crolles site we began to see the environmental benets is helping to create a closed loop system.
of our investment in transforming our Approximately 22% of the sites waste is manufacturing operations in GB.
In the final fed into the onsite anaerobic digestion plant, quarter of the year, we saw our energy 3 generating over 20,000m of recoverable intensity across our GB manufacturing sites biogas per year, which is used to fuel boilers drop to 79.3 kWh tonne product as our new on the site.
This equates to approximately lines ran at high volumes and maximised 130,000 kWh of energy fed back into efficiencies.
This was a 21% reduction on 2016 2017 2018 manufacturing operations.
Our investment in new technology continued in France, including the installation of a heat exchange 1,2 2018 2017 system at our Unisource site.
By capturing tonnes tonnes waste heat and directing it back into our CO2e CO2e operations, we were able to help reduce Location-based emissions method site natural gas consumption by 8%.
Scope 1 31,439 31,752 Scope 2 29,692 35,578 This transformation of our operations has helped drive a 14% reduction in Total scope 1 & 2 emissions 61,131 67,330 manufacturing carbon emissions relative Scope 1 & 2 emissions intensity per thousand tonnes production 28.57 31.70 to production in 2018 using location-based Scope 2 calculation methodology.
This is a 13% reduction since our 2016 baseline Market-based emissions method and marks good progress towards our 2020 Scope 1 31,439 31,752 goal of a 15% intensity reduction.
We also Scope 2 16,264 23,091 accelerated our transition to cleaner energy Total scope 1 & 2 emissions 47,703 54,843 and 28% of our manufacturing energy Scope 1 & 2 emissions intensity per thousand tonnes production came from renewable sources this year 34% including low carbon electricity from nuclear in France.
This was driven by the Downstream emissions switch of our electricity to 100% green in 3 Scope 3 Business travel 3,148 3,947 Ireland and the ongoing use of biomass fuel Scope 3 Downstream primary logistics 53,711 47,804 and green electricity in Brazil.
In France, Notes: green energy was championed by one of our 1.
2018 gures refer to the 52 weeks ending 30 September 2018.
Please refer to Britvics 2018 Basis of Reporting available brands, Pressade, which switched to 100% at www.
com sustainable for full scope, boundary and methodology disclosure for our greenhouse gas reporting.
In GB, This data is independently assured by Ernst & Young LLP.
we achieved an uptake of 23% hybrid 2.
We have extended the scope of our reporting this year to cover non-manufacturing emissions.
2017 data have been electric vehicles in our company car eet this restated for comparability and to increase robustness of reported gures.
year and look forward to step-changing our 3. Business travel excludes our Brazil business unit.
use of renewables from October 2018 as our GB manufacturing sites switch to 100% As at May 2018 green electricity, which is estimated to lift our global manufacturing electricity to over 80% renewable.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Whilst much of our fruit juice comes understand the environmental impacts MANUFACTURING WASTE from fruit farmed across the world, over and help prioritise packaging development DISPOSAL BREAKDOWN two thirds of the sugar used in our GB activity.
This project identied that, whilst manufacturing is sourced in Britain.
PET plastic packaging is sometimes This sugar travels an average of just seen negatively from an environmental Landfill Energy 1% from waste 28 miles from eld to factory and it then perspective, the water and carbon impacts 4% travels an average of around 95 miles to associated with the whole lifecycle of PET Recycling reuse reach us.
We are proud to support UK packaging was preferable to many other Anaerobic 44% agriculture by sourcing locally whilst also packaging materials.
Despite this nding, digestion 22% reducing our indirect carbon emissions we recognise that it is still favourable from transport and logistics.
to reduce our packaging use wherever possible.
Through the investment in our Packaging GB manufacturing capability, we have We recognise the impact that plastic eliminated 600 tonnes of primary plastic can have at the end of its life and are packaging by accessing new technology committed to playing our part to reduce enabling us to manufacture lighter weight this.
This year, we signed up to the UK bottles.
This year we also made the Composting 29% Plastic Pact, a pioneering agreement which transition from steel to aluminium cans in aims to transform the plastic packaging GB and Ireland, avoiding 2,800 tonnes of system in the UK and keep plastic in the packaging materials.
economy and out of the ocean.
As part of We are committed to promoting responsible this commitment, weve pledged support Indirect impact disposal of our packaging with consumers, to a series of ambitious 2025 targets, We know that a significant proportion communicating recycling messaging including making 100% of our plastic of Britvics environmental impact occurs on packs and through consumer-facing reusable, recyclable or compostable and outside of our direct operational control and campaigns such as the Keep Scotland eliminating problematic or unnecessary we are committed to working alongside Beautiful, Give your litter a lift campaign single-use plastic.
our supply chain partners to reduce this.
targeting roadside litter in Scotland.
In 2018, we reduced our indirect emissions In Brazil, together with our suppliers, from business travel by 20% excluding were also trialling the use of wire made Brazil, primarily through reducing our ight from recycled PET bottles collected from mileage.
However, we saw an increase in rivers and lakes in the Cerrado region for our downstream primary logistics emissions our passionfruit vines to replace steel of 12% due to new delivery routes in wire, an initiative being spearheaded by France and Brazil.
This is something we environmental charity Greenpeace.
must continue to focus on going forward.
Our squashes and cordials are concentrated In the UK, 100% of our PET bottles, In our GB and Ireland business units we and therefore a great way to reduce cans and glass are already recyclable and also supply refrigeration and vending plastic packaging used per serve, with this year we further demonstrated our equipment for use on customer sites and, Robinsons 1.75 litre double concentrate commitment to the circular economy as part of our ongoing project to capture bottles delivering 70 servings or 17.5 through our pledge to invest in the UK the full scope of our indirect emissions, litres as enjoyed by consumers.
This year, recycling infrastructure through the we calculated emissions of 33,000 tonnes Robinsons also supported consumers in purchase of UK-based Packaging Recovery CO e from the electricity consumed by this 2 avoiding unnecessary single-use plastic Notes PRN.
All our GB equipment during the Wimbledon Championships, uses eco-friendly, natural refrigerant gases Across all packaging formats, were introducing personalised re-usable bottles and all new chiller equipment added to this committed to minimising the environmental to tennis-goers and encouraging fans to ll portfolio has LED lighting, in order to help impact and this year we completed lifetheir bottles with Robinsons Fruit Creations.
cycle assessments on our most popular Over 3,500 re-usable bottles were handed packaging formats, enabling us to better out over the course of the Championships.
We continue to engage with our suppliers to better understand the environmental impact associated with the materials that we purchase, using the Sedex tool to review their approach to environmental risk management and making visits to suppliers to see first-hand the activity driving environmental improvement.
In 2018, we completed a project to trace some of the fruits in our drinks back to the farms where they were grown.
This provided us with some fascinating insights into the journey of our ingredients, the agricultural methods used and the communities that we support indirectly.
With increasing interest in the traceability of ingredients, we plan to expand on this work going forward.
Figure independently assured by Ernst & Young LLP BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 43
