Strategic Report Business Review Delivering high levels of customer service remains a core priority and energy supply complaints fell by 1% in 2018, remaining at UK Home low levels relative to the industry.
This reflects enhancements to the customer experience, through the redevelopment of key Our UK Home business experienced continued customers journeys through digital transformation, the continued high levels of competitive intensity and regulatory simplification of bills and the roll-out of our next generation mobile change during 2018, in addition to periods of app.
In services, we experienced an exceptionally high number volatile weather conditions and commodity prices.
of central heating boiler breakdowns due to cold weather in Q1, with peak breakdowns more than twice the normal weekly rate.
Reflecting these factors, UK Home adjusted operating profit was This contributed to an increase in complaints of 52% in H1 2018, as appointments were rescheduled to clear the backlog.
complaints returned closer to historic levels in H2 2018, resulting Energy account holdings reduced by 742,000 in 2018, largely in a 30% increase for the whole year.
Brand NPS was flat reflecting the highly competitive nature of the residential supply compared to 2017 as the progress made on improving service market.
The industry experienced record levels of switching in levels was offset by the impact of cold weather on services the year, with many customers moving to smaller suppliers, and negative sentiment towards energy suppliers.
although we have seen some market consolidation following a number of smaller supplier failures in 2018.
Despite the competitive pressures, the underlying rate of losses slowed compared to 2017, with 634,000 fewer net losses despite two increases in the Standard Variable Tariff SVT compared to one in 2017.
We withdrew the SVT for new customers at the end of March, in line with the commitment we made in November 2017, and we ended the year with 2.2 million fewer SVT accounts.
For those customers who switched tariffs, 440,000 accounts were moved onto the new safeguard tariff for vulnerable customers, with the remainder choosing to move onto alternative fixed-term offers.
The number of fixed-term accounts remained broadly flat over the year while we also had 1.0 million accounts on our newly introduced Temporary Tariff.
Against the competitive backdrop, we continue to expand our range of offers and bundles in response to customer demand.
In 2018 we launched and delivered new Online-Only, Tracker, Green, Electric Vehicle and Unlimited Usage energy tariffs, and expanded our range of energy tariffs bundled with services and connected home offers.
Our British Gas Rewards programme now has 2 million customers signed up, with enrolled customer churn around half that of comparable non-Rewards customers.
We are also using increasingly sophisticated customer propensity and customer value modelling to drive retention and growth within higher value segments.
Services accounts increased by 43,000 in 2018, the first full year of account growth since 2010, reflecting additional sales from bundled propositions attracting new to services customers and growth from commercial partnerships.
In addition, installs and on demand jobs increased by 15% relative to 2017, reflecting an increase in the number of boiler installations despite a flat market and the adverse impact on sales of warmer weather in H2 2018 compared to H2 2017.
Weve also seen further progress in the development of our on-demand platform, Local Heroes, which completed three times as many jobs in 2018 when compared to 2017.
20 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 We remain focused on delivering cost efficiencies to maintain a competitive pricing position.
In 2018 we introduced Natural Ireland Language Call Steering which identifies key words to route customers to the most appropriate call agent.
This is already Bord Gis Energy performed well again in 2018, having a positive impact on the customer experience and resulting delivering an increase in customer account holdings in shorter calls and lower costs.
In our field force we have invested and further improvements in customer service.
in programmes to improve productivity, availability and first-time fix rates, and we have rolled out online self-help content to help However, adjusted operating profit was impacted by an extended our customers resolve minor issues remotely.
We continue to planned major maintenance outage at Whitegate in H1 2018, the invest in digital transformation, with improved functionality and first major overhaul since it was commissioned in 2010.
The plant performance on both our new customer app and our website, came back online in May and operated at improved efficiency allowing customers to complete a wider range of transactions levels over H2 2018 compared to 2017. in a fast, convenient and secure way.
The number of customers with an active online account grew 13% year on year and around Customer account holdings increased by 12,000 with growth 50% of all transactions were made through digital channels.
in both consumer and business accounts.
This was reflective Annualised cost per Home customer increased by 10%, driven of our range of offers, brand positioning and continued by a greater mix of services customers, the additional costs improvement in customer service.
We also continued to develop in services due to the weather and the impact of lower energy our range of innovative propositions, including an enhanced account holdings, partly offset by efficiencies.
energy and services bundled offer, while our rewards programme remains key to attracting and retaining high value customer Overall UK Home adjusted operating profit was down 18%, segments, with 44% of our domestic customers now signed up.
with energy supply down 19% due to lower customer accounts holdings, the full year impact of the prepayment cap and Improvements to customer service in 2018 were supported by higher imbalance costs reflecting a new industry settlement enhancements to our customer-facing IT platforms, a focus methodology.
This outweighed progress made in delivering cost on improving the quality of contact centre interactions and efficiencies.
Services adjusted operating profit was 18% lower increased speed of response.
These actions led to a 33% decline than 2017, with additional costs of around 20 million resulting in complaints and a 16pt improvement in Brand NPS compared to from a record number of call outs associated with the cold 2017.
These improvements came despite a spike in cold weatherweather in Q1, the impact of customer mix and investment related call volumes in Q1 2018 and regulatory changes requiring in growth offset by cost efficiencies which accelerated in H2 us to contact customers on the same tariff for more than three and a higher number of boiler installations.
UK Home adjusted years to encourage them to check their tariff suitability.
We also operating cash flow reduced by 13% in 2018, broadly in line made additional progress in delivering cost efficiencies, with with the reduction in adjusted operating profit.
further improvements to our digital platform and a higher proportion of sales through our online channels.
Adjusted operating profit was down 6% year-on-year to 44 million and down 7% to 50 million in local currency, primarily due to the impact of the Whitegate outage, with the impact of higher costs resulting from rising commodity prices being broadly offset by the impact of our standard tariff price increase in August.
Adjusted operating cash flow was up 12 million to 74 million, including the impact of a working capital prepayment in 2017 related to Whitegate.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 21 Strategic Report | Business Review Airtron new residential construction business.
We expanded our residential new construction offering with the acquisition in North America Home December of T. A. Kaiser Heating & Air, Inc. a multi-city HVAC installation, repair and maintenance company based in Indiana.
North America Home performed well in 2018, We continue to focus on the development and offer of bundled with a relative stabilisation in account holdings propositions and in addition to energy and services bundles, and continued good levels of customer satisfaction.
we launched offers combining energy with Hive products and solutions and the Amazon Echo Dot smart device.
Adjusted operating profit grew for the third consecutive year We also expanded our energy only propositions to include despite more normal weather conditions for the energy supply a time of use tariff.
business when compared to favourable conditions in 2017, We continue to make good progress on cost efficiency including largely reflecting the closure of the loss making residential through call centre consolidation, while we are also progressing solar business in H2 2017, adjusted gross margin growth a new services billing platform which is intended to enable further in services and the delivery of further cost efficiencies.
Reflecting the delivery of efficiencies, and the Energy account holdings reduced by 1% or 25,000 in 2018, mix impact of the closure of the residential solar business, compared to an 11% decline in 2017, with lower churn rates annualised cost per North America Home account decreased across all regions and a migration of customers from variable by 4% compared to 2017.
We also saw continued low levels of to fixed tariffs.
Accounts in Texas fell by 4%, however our use customer complaints and Brand NPS remained at a high level.
of data analytics has allowed us to focus our acquisition and Adjusted operating profit was up 8% to 123 million compared to retention on customer segments with the highest estimated 2017, or up 11% to $165 million in local currency.
This was largely lifetime values.
As a result, we delivered a significant increase due to reduced losses in the services business reflecting the in sales to higher value customers at a lower cost to acquire, closure of the loss-making residential solar business, growth in and improved retention of more valuable customers on fixed services and cost efficiencies.
Energy adjusted operating profit price contracts.
While regulatory scrutiny and competitive was down 8%, or down 4% in local currency, with the impact pressures in certain US North East markets remain a challenge, of efficiencies largely offsetting the impact of lower customer we won some profitable community aggregations and auctions, accounts, a changed customer mix with more fixed price contracts while account losses in Canada slowed as we rebuilt sales channels and the impact of less favourable weather conditions.
Adjusted following our exit from door-to-door sales activity in 2017. operating cash flow increased by 21% to 187 million, or by 25% Services accounts increased by 3% or 23,000 in 2018, with further to $249 million in local currency, due to the increase in adjusted growth in Direct Energy paid protection plans.
Services adjusted operating profit, the timing of tax cash flows and the lowering gross margin also improved as a result of more sophisticated of the US rate of corporation tax.
customer segmentation-led pricing strategies and growth in our 22 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Connected Home is also having a positive impact on the rest of the Consumer business units.
The NPS of UK Home energy Connected home customers who have a Hive product is 13 points higher than those without, and we are also seeing improved retention rates for UK Connected Home delivered further growth in Home and North America Home services customers with Hive.
customers, product sales and revenue in 2018, Boiler IQ, a remote boiler monitoring product developed by Hive, building on its leading position in the UK while is also improving first time fix rates for UK services customers.
expanding its range of products, propositions Expanding our range of sales channels remains important, and and partnerships across core geographies.
during the year we launched several new partnerships.
In April, we commenced our partnership with Italian energy company Eni The cumulative number of Hive customers increased by 49%, Gas e luce.
In May, we announced a partnership with EE in the UK, with 444,000 new customers joining Hive during 2018, while providing customers with the option to bundle Hive products with product sales of 1,194,000 were 37% higher than in 2017. their mobile subscription.
We also announced a partnership with This growth reflects the wider range of products available on Wave, a joint venture between Anglian Water and NWG Business, the Hive ecosystem and existing customers taking more products to provide our Leak Plan as an offering to their customers.
due to increased familiarity with the Hive platform and App.
We continued to expand our retail channels, with our Hive The average number of Hive products per customer increased products now available for sale on Amazon in United States, from 2.3 to 2.7 over the year and the average revenue per new Canada, Italy and France, in addition to the UK.
We continue to focus on improving the customer experience and During 2018, we launched a number of new products including NPS remained high.
During the year we upgraded the Hive App the Hive View indoor and outdoor cameras, Hive Hub 360, which now includes App Chat customer services capability and GU10 and E14 lighting ranges and the integration of Philips Hue enhanced Actions, giving customers greater local control and products.
Customers also now have greater choice in how they enabling personalisation of how their devices interact with each control their home, with more Hive devices and features enabled other.
We also developed our technical infrastructure, enabling for voice activation through Amazon Alexa, Google Home and a more efficient and scalable platform with faster response times.
In North America, the thermostat and lighting range also Gross revenue increased by 60% to 67 million, reflecting increased achieved Energy Star compliance, a government-backed initiative sales of our increasingly diverse product range to new and existing for energy efficient products.
We have introduced several new customers.
Adjusted gross margin increased by 63% to 13 million, propositions, including Cloud Storage in the UK and North with the average adjusted gross margin percentage remaining at America, while in December we launched our connected care 19%, while the adjusted operating loss of 85 million was 11% service Hive Link in partnership with Carers UK, which helps lower than 2017 which also includes the impact of lower adjusted provide peace of mind to people caring for friends or relatives.
Adjusted operating cash outflow was 74 million The launch of these propositions helped more than double lower than in 2017, primarily due to a material purchase of inventory the number of active subscriptions over the year, with 14% in 2017 in preparation for launch into new geographies.
of Hive customers now on a subscription service compared to 10% in 2017.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 23 Strategic Report | Business Review UK Business North America Business UK Business performed well in 2018, delivering North America Business faced continued challenging improved operational performance, significantly trading conditions in 2018, with continued high levels lower level of complaints, and customer account of competitive intensity and the expected squeeze on growth in the higher value SME customer segment.
retail power margins resulting from the timing effect of power capacity charges in the US North East, Adjusted operating profit increased, with higher adjusted gross which were higher in 2018 but are expected to be margin and lower adjusted operating cost, as periods of cold lower in subsequent years.
weather in Q1 2018 were managed well and we experienced no repeat of the Q1 2017 additional costs resulting from The business also experienced unfavourable weather conditions, commodity volatility and energy volume settlements.
which impacted power gross margin.
Despite a competitive backdrop, with around 95 active As a result, although power adjusted gross margin increased competitors at the end of 2018 compared to around 70 at the by 10% in local currency to $209 million, when excluding the start of 2017, SME customer accounts increased by 6,000, or 1%, impact of an $82 million one-off non-cash charge in 2017 relating during the year.
This reflects enhancements to our customer offers to the historic recognition of unbilled power revenues, underlying through both direct and broker channels, including our online-only power adjusted gross margin fell by 23%.
We currently expect British Gas Lite tariff which has been designed around the needs power adjusted gross margin to improve in 2019, in part reflecting of the smaller SME customers.
Our retention and acquisition focus the lower power capacity charges in future periods, and total net remains on the higher value SME segments and we have also seen margin under contract for 2019 at the end of 2018 was higher further development of our services offers.
The number of boiler thanthe net margin under contract for 2018 at the end of 2017. installations for small businesses increased and we also delivered Total gas adjusted gross margin was down 3% to $334 million growth in bundled energy and services offers to customers.
inlocal currency compared to 2017, with strong gas optimisation I&C customer account holdings reduced by 10,000, or 9%, as performance during a particularly cold January in the US North we actively chose not to pursue the renewal of some low value East offset by the impact of unfavourable weather conditions multi-site customers, with our acquisition and retention efforts andtwo pipeline outages which limited optimisation opportunities focused on higher volume customers who have a greater in the second half of the year.
propensity to take our Distributed Energy & Power fide&P offers.
We remain focused on driving improvements in profit and returns During the year we signed an increasing number of contracts and continuing to deliver high levels of customer satisfaction combining energy supply with our fide&P services, including in North America Business and during the year implemented CHP solutions and demand side response capabilities.
changes in our sales channel mix and products.
Total customer Operational performance has continued to improve resulting in account holdings were down 65,000 during 2018, reflecting our better customer outcomes, with further improvements in billing exit from the higher-cost door-to-door and third-party telesales accuracy and timeliness.
The volume of calls fell by 105,000, sales channels.
These are being replaced by lower-cost digital or 11%, while customer complaints fell by 72% compared to channels and during the year we also enhanced the web 2017.
In addition, the focus on improving our digital platform enrolment experience and our customer targeting model.
has resulted in online self-service levels increasing to 51% from In addition, our recently launched rewards programme, 44% in 2017.
These enhancements are also enabling us to deliver which is targeted at higher value SME customers, is helping cost efficiencies as we continue to work to deliver a simpler and enhance customer retention and customer lifetime value.
more efficient service for customers.
Adjusted operating profit was 40 million, compared to 4 million in 2017, primarily reflecting the absence of the 2017 additional costs from commodity volatility and further cost efficiencies.
Adjusted operating cash flow decreased by 53% to 62 million, with UK Business having delivered material debt collection in 2017 associated with historic billing issues.
24 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 During 2018, we launched our Fixed Energy Plus offer, which is targeted at high consuming businesses.
It gives customers Distributed Energy & Power access to real time usage through our PowerRadar application and alerts them when system load is peaking, allowing them to We made significant progress in Distributed Energy lower capacity charges in their energy bills by proactively reducing & Power fide&P in 2018, utilising the enhanced consumption.
Since its launch we have continued to improve the capabilities that we have developed both organically offer to fit the needs of our customers, acting on feedback from and through acquisition over the past three years.
We also expanded our Energy Portfolio platform which gives customers direct access to our energy expertise while providing dynamic energy procurement options.
Our leading indicators of growth demonstrated significant North America Business continues to work closely with the momentum.
Order intake was up 158% compared to 2017 and Distributed Energy & Power business and is an important the secured order book increased by 51% to 559million.
Gross sales channel for distributed energy products.
revenue was up 14%, below the level of secured order book growth reflecting the phasing of order book conversion, while We continue to focus on building our strong gas position in the adjusted gross margin percentage increased to 24%.
the US North East, in addition to expanding our offer into new geographies to diversify risk across the portfolio, and during the Our investment in branding and developing our sales channels year we completed three small bolt-on acquisitions.
In February, has contributed to strong growth in our international operations.
we acquired New Jersey Resources retail natural gas business, All fide&P products are now under the Centrica Business Solutions which supplies around 45bcf of gas per year to customers in the brand, with a new digital marketing platform in place across all our US North East and Mid-Atlantic.
In July, we acquired a portion of geographies and we continue to utilise the customer relationships BPs US retail marketing operation, which supplies around 100bcf of our UK and North America Business divisions.
We are running of gas per year to customers in Indiana, Kentucky, Tennessee global marketing campaigns to target specific customer needs, and Ohio.
In December, we completed the acquisition of Source and agreed sales partnerships with several global organisations, Power & Gas, a retail energy provider serving 4,000 customers including WSP.
Our North America and Rest of World businesses with an approximate annual load of 6.5TWh in Texas, Illinois, accounted for 68% of the secured order book at the end of 2018 Ohio, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, Pennsylvania and the compared to 50% at the end of 2017.
In the UK, the secured order District of Columbia.
Including the impact of these acquisitions, book remained broadly unchanged despite experiencing some total gas consumption was up 19% compared to 2017, with impact on customer orders in Q4 2018 due to uncertainty power consumption flat.
surrounding the UK Capacity Market.
North America Business adjusted operating profit increased by Our range of technology solutions offered to customers now 14% to 81 million, or by 25% to $109 million in local currency.
includes solar, power generation, CHP, fuel cells and battery Excluding the impact of the 2017 one-off non-cash charge, storage, in addition to optimisation and energy insight services.
adjusted operating profit fell by 39%, reflecting the unfavourable Increasingly we are selling multi-technology solutions coupled weather conditions and the squeeze on retail power margins.
with optimisation, insight, financing and O&M services and we Adjusted operating cash flow was up 220% to 278 million, have a unique capability to develop multi-technology solutions reflecting positive working capital movements, as we achieved at scale.
In 2018, we launched our Integrated Solutions Platform structurally improved payment terms on our energy procurement ISP under the name Power Radar.
This digital portal gives contracts, and warmer than normal weather at the end of the year.
customers access to our products and solutions in one place and enables the combination of different technologies to develop new and differentiated products.
We have moved over 4,000 customer sites onto the ISP.
In H2 2018 we completed the construction of two 49MW fast response gas-fired plants at Brigg and Peterborough and a 49MW battery storage facility at Roosecote, with all three assets performing well in early operation.
The CCGT replant at Kings Lynn is also progressing to plan and is expected to be operational in H1 2019.
Continued revenue investment to drive long term value resulted in an increased adjusted operating loss of 81 million, despite the increase in adjusted gross margin.
Having now scaled our cost base to deliver growth, we expect 2018 to be the year of peak losses as we target a further adjusted gross margin increase in 2019.
We also recognised an exceptional cost of 18 million relating to the Kings Lynn and Peterborough power stations following the suspension of the UK Capacity Market in November and reductions in clean spark spread price forecasts.
Adjusted operating cash outflow was 31 million higher than in 2017, broadly in line with the increase in the adjusted operating loss.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 25 Strategic Report | Business Review Full year adjusted operating profit in 2018 was 54 million, compared to 104 million in 2017.
After excluding the impact of the Energy Marketing & Trading flexible gas contracts, adjusted operating profit from our core EM&T activities rose 57% compared with 2017.
This reflects the The performance of our core Energy Marketing strong trading and optimisation performance during the cold & Trading EM&T activities was strong in 2018, weather in Q1.
Adjusted operating cash outflow for the year was as we utilised our enhanced capabilities and asset 66 million compared to an inflow of 262 million in 2017, reflecting positions to deliver a strong trading performance the timing of cash flows associated with both the flexible gas across North West Europe, particularly during contracts and core EM&T trading activities.
periods of high market volatility associated with the exceptionally cold weather in Q1.
Central Power Generation However, financial performance was impacted by our legacy Having completed our exit from wind power generation gas contracts which generated losses, reflecting commodity in February 2017 and disposed of our large CCGTs price movements over recent years.
at Humber and Langage in August 2017, the Central We continue to expand our route-to-market offering across Power Generation segment now consists only of Europe and now serve customers who own decentralised assets our 20% equity interest in the entity which owns with contracted capacity of 13.8GW across a range of clean energy sources.
In August we signed a 10-year agreement and operates the eight nuclear power stations to provide balancing and power trading for the new 235MW in the UK and the financial result of the tolling verturingen wind farm in Sweden.
In November we signed a arrangement for the Spalding power station.
two-year contract for the balancing and trading of 469MW of renewables capacity from 87,000 homes and business sites Nuclear generation volumes were 7% lower than in 2017, largely across Denmark.
In December, we announced an expansion reflecting extended inspections and outages at the Hunterston B of our route-to-market offerings into Italy by agreeing power and Dungeness B plants.
Both reactors at Dungeness and both purchase agreements PPAs with Glennmont Partners for the reactors at Hunterston are currently expected to return to service trading and balancing of 315MW of onshore wind farm capacity.
In February 2019, we entered into a 15-year contract to trade and Central Power Generation adjusted operating profit fell 23% to balance 76.7% of the electricity generated from the 950MW Moray 27million.
This was driven by the lower Nuclear generation offshore windfarm from the start of commercial operation which volumes, partially offset by a higher achieved power price and the is scheduled for 2022.
In addition, in June we announced a impact of the disposal of the loss-making large CCGTs.
We also small direct investment in Barrow Green Gas, the UKs largest recognised an exceptional cost of 44 million relating to an biomethane supplier and the only gas business in Great Britain onerous contract provision on the Spalding tolling arrangement focused solely on the green gas market, shipping almost half following the suspension of the UK Capacity Market in November of the green gas used by British homes and businesses.
and reductions in clean spark spread price forecasts.
Adjusted We continue to expand our global LNG presence in advance operating cash flow reduced by 14% to 50 million due to lower of the first gas delivery from our contract with Cheniere, which Nuclear dividends, broadly in line with the reduction in adjusted is expected in September 2019 from the Sabine Pass facility in operating profit.
Louisiana, with a second seven-year charter signed with GasLog Ltd in May for another 180,000 cubic meter LNG carrier.
We are utilising our full range of trading, optimisation and operations capability and continue to transact multiple cargoes from a range of locations across the globe.
In February 2019, alongside Tokyo Gas we jointly signed a sales and purchase agreement to purchase 2.6 million tonnes per annum, delivered ex-ship from the Mozambique LNG project from the start-up of production until the early 2040s.
This follows the non-binding Heads of Agreement signed in June 2018 and is the first long-term offtake agreement from Africa for Centrica, in line with our strategy to diversify our sources of LNG.
EM&Ts major flexible legacy gas contracts and associated hedges with take or pay arrangements generated a loss of 53 million in 2018 compared to profit of 36 million in 2017.
Thisprimarily reflects the cessation of our two historically most profitable contracts in 2018, leaving one which expires in 2025 thatis expected to be loss-making based on the current level of gas prices.
The contract will continue to be managed as part of the EM&T portfolio as we look to utilise the contract optionality to capture favourable market conditions as and when they arise.
26 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 However, total Centrica share of 2P reserves declined from 275mmboe to 203mmboe in 2018, despite Nova adding 11mmboe Exploration & Production reserves net to Centrica, reflecting production during the year and reserves downgrades at Maria due to reservoir performance and Following the 2017 disposal of our assets in the downgrade of Hejre from 2P to 2C as the operator re-evaluates Canada and Trinidad and Tobago, our Exploration development options.
and Production division is wholly focused on Although reserve replacement has been disappointing, overall North West Europe.
resources for Spirit Energy have materially increased.
In August, it was announced that Spirit Energy had farmed into 50% of The division now consists of Spirit Energy, an entity formed in Hurricane Energys Greater Warwick Area, West of Shetland.
December 2017 which combined Centricas E&P business with Spirit Energy will fund a $180 million campaign to drill three wells that of Bayerngas Norge, and CSL, which was granted consent and prepare for an extended well test, with a rig secured to by the Oil and Gas Authority OGA to produce indigenous gas commence drilling in Q2 2019.
The wells will target the Lincoln and associated liquids from its Rough asset in January 2018. discovery and the Warwick exploration prospect, which are Reflecting both the consolidation of Spirit Energy and significant estimated to hold 604mmboe gross 2C contingent resources and production from Rough, E&P delivered increased European 935mmboe gross prospective resources respectively.
Spirit volumes in 2018 despite lower than expected production from Energy also experienced exploration success at the Hades Iris Spirit Energy.
In addition, a higher wholesale commodity price and Lille Prinsen prospects with appraisal wells planned for 2019. environment resulted in increased achieved gas and liquids prices.
European lifting and other cash production costs were 14.3 boe, As a result, both adjusted operating profit and adjusted operating down 7% compared to 2017, driven primarily by the impact of cash flow were significantly higher when compared to 2017. a greater proportion of lower cost Rough production.
Adjusted Total European gas and liquids production of 57.9mmboe was operating profit of 521 million was up materially compared to up 20% compared to 2017.
Production of 11.2mmboe from Rough 2017, with the impact of higher volumes and achieved prices more was at the top end of our expectations at the start of the year, than offsetting the impact of the disposal of the Americas assets in reflecting good levels of asset availability over the period and 2017.
We also recognised a 90 million net impairment write-back the successful transition to medium-pressure operations in the of assets relating to certain UK and Norwegian fields reflecting an fourth quarter from the initial free flow phase.
However, Spirit increase in near-term liquids prices partially offset by a reduction Energy production of 46.7mmboe was lower than expected at in long-term price forecasts, a movement in reserve estimates on the start of the year, reflecting a higher level of unplanned outages one of the fields and a reduction in decommissioning provisions.
at Morecambe and operational issues across a number of other Adjusted operating cash flow was up 89% to 963 million, reflecting operated and non-operated fields.
the higher operating profit and the favourable timing of tax Spirit Energy continues to focus investment on the most attractive payments.
When combined with net investment of 480million, developments in its portfolio.
The operated Oda field, with an E&P generated free cash flow of 483 million in 2018. estimated 13mmboe of Spirit Energy 2P reserves, is progressing ahead of plan with first oil expected in Q1 2019.
In May, a positive final investment decision was taken on the Nova oil field development, in which Spirit Energy has a 20% interest.
Spirit Energys share of the development cost is expected to be approximately NOK2,000m 180 million, with the project expected to start up in2021.
In CSL, we were awarded a contract in August to process gas from the Tolmount field at the Easington terminal.
This contract will extend the life of the terminal until at least 2030.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 27
