ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 36 Business review Our performance in numbers This section provides agraphical and textual Health and Safety overview of our performance in 2018.
Safety inspections target met 2016 0.0023 1 2017 0.0024 Our successes include growing Adjusted EBITDA 2018 0.0026 by19% to $610.1 million, developing technology toimprove Health and Safety, refurbishing vital assetsahead of schedule, and investing in  to predict and prevent 2% problemsat powerplants.
2017: 0.0024 A number of key themes characterize our We achieved the target rate of Level 2 performancethrough the year: Safety Inspections at all sites.
1 Striving to continuously improve operations Hazard identification target far exceeded 2 Continuing to grow well 2016 44 2017 64 around the world 2018 74 3 Advancing renewable growth 10% 2017: 64% 4 Doing business responsibly We achieved a Hazard Identification Rate of 74%, far exceeding the target of 30%.
We explore each of these themes in turn, highlightingalong the way our performance acrossthecore areas of operations, Health and Safety, environment, people and communities.
Corrective and preventive actions target exceeded 7,500 2016 8,300 9,250 2017 9,800 9,851 2018 10,594 CAPA closed CAPA opened We achieved a CAPA Corrective And Preventive Actions closure rate of 93% against our target of 80%.
1 Refer to page 34 for definition.
2 0.40 Benchmark is top decile of peers.
3 Thermal fleet availability was impacted by an outage at a CCGT facility in Spain: there was no financial impact.
Renewable fleet availability was impacted bytheintegration 0.30 ofnew assets and technology as a result of the Spanish CSP acquisition as well as an integration and maintenance program.
0.20 0.20 0.18 0.16 0.17 0.10 0.10 0.00 Social engagement 2016 2017 2018 122 projects 31% -5.5% on 2017 reduction in TRIR from 2016 1 The recordable incidents category gathers the following Health& Safety incidents Medical Treatment Incidents, 16,600 hours 39% Restricted Workday Case Incidents and Lost Time Incidents.
Devoted to community education activities on 2017 Training hours target exceeded $2.4 million 135% Total investment on 2017 150,000 120,000 Communities Environment 90,000 CO emissions ratio Social investment projects 60,000 0.56 -9.6% on 2017 30,000 122 projects 0 2016 2017 2018 ContourGlobal Contractor l 45% Europe l 40% Latin America l 14% Africa We achieved a Training Hours rate of 2.8%, exceeding the target of 2% by almost 50%.
l 1% America 68,098 30,403 98,500 91,577 41,589 133,165 76,276 46,919 123,195 ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 38 Striving to continuously 1 improve our operations We are committed to the theory and practice of continuous improvement, and embrace failure analysis as one of our core values.
Weperformed well in 2018 but with roomforimprovement.
Improving Health and Safety Health and Safety H&S is absolutely fundamental to ContourGlobal.
It is our highest value and we take great pride in our performance and commitment toour world-class H&S standards.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 39 Looking to go further Looking to 2019, we will leverage big data and AI to improve performance.
We have awealth of data throughout the business and by analyzing it in smart ways we plan, for example, to improve the quality of our training.
We already lead our peers in terms of the quantity of H&S training we give our employees in 2018 our target was 2% of all working hours.
We plan to use big data analysis to understand better the effectiveness of this training so we can create ways to improve it.
We carried out ten H&S audits in 2018, allofthem pre-announced.
In 2019, weplan tocarry out a number of short notice audits at sites around the world.
Thiswill yield fresh insights into Health andSafety acrossour portfolio, further deepening ourunderstanding and enabling us to explore even more improvements.
Targeting zero incidents We continue our commitment to Target Zero a workplace in which people are free from injuries and everyone goes home safe, every day, everywhere.
Wecontinue to set the highest standards of H&S among our peers and in 2018 we worked over 3.8 million hours without aLost Time Incident LTI.
Unfortunately towards the end of the third quarter Strong H&S strategy: Raising awareness of safe driving oneLTIoccurred.
In one of our recently We held a number of safety and awareness healthy H&S culture acquired Spanish CSP plants, a contractor days across ContourGlobal to raise removed his safety glasses to put on his awareness of specific issues.
For example, To ensure world-class H&S prescription glasses.
The site is prone to we had a major campaign on safe driving, performance throughout volatile dust and some foreign particles rolling out special trainingon defensive ContourGlobal, we: were blown into the contractors eye.
We also added Thecontractor was put on sick leave technology to all our company Comply with the strictest forthree days while the foreign particles regulations and standards cars, suchas dash cameras and GPS, Maintain a one company, one were removed by a doctor and tomonitor safe driving and any incidents.
people, one standard policy ophthalmologist.
Train, train, train Focusing on contractor safety Ensure transparent communication Improving even from a high base We had a safety day focused on contractor inside and outside the organization Through 2018 we have been focusing on management.
In some of our plants, Learn from mistakes anumber of initiatives to improve our H&S manyof the people working there are Embrace a healthy H&S culture procedures and performance.
The feeling contractors and we want to make sure was that, by 2017, we had reached a high theyunderstand and comply with our plateau we were leading our peers in highH&S standards and practices.
H&S by some margin but were not moving Making solo working safer Sowefocused on encouraging and on from our own high standards as far or We also piloted a lone working device.
enabling all our employees to become as quickly as we wanted.
So we started Working on your own is sometimes ambassadors of contractor safety.
anumber of initiatives in 2018 to push unavoidable but it is also relatively high Mobilizing Health and Safety onand go further.
risk, so we introduced a smartphone app that enables solo workers to be monitored We introduced a mobile app that records Introducing wearable tags remotely as well as giving them a simple our hazards and Health and Safety events In Italy we piloted wearable tags, adding way to call for help if need be.
and makes them easily available for them to personal protective equipment everyone to see.
Being able to see and such as shoes, helmets and glasses.
Encouraging safer behavior share everything is a critical part of strong Thisrelatively low-cost technology ensured In addition, we piloted Behavior Based transparent Health and Safety.
Putting the thatoperators could only use equipment Safety BBS.
This focuses on encouraging information on everyones smartphone ifthey were wearing the right protection.
people to appreciate and choose safe isaneat and simple solution.
An electronic chip is attached to the behavior rather than taking shortcuts that protective equipment, and is detected by might seem worthwhile but ultimately acontrolling system.
If the worker does not reduce safety.
We piloted this program wear the right equipment or if the worker attwo sites with good results and plan falls, an alarm is automatically triggered.
toroll it out across ContourGlobal in 2019.
Asmart, simple move making an immediate Its another great example of building on difference to Health and Safety.
and improving our healthy H&S culture.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 40 Business review Business review continued continued 1 Striving to improve our operations continued Operational excellence Operationally, the Thermal division facedseveral technical challenges, although they had no financial impact onperformance.
The Renewable division performed in line with operational targets and successfully deployed a number ofplanned initiatives on performance improvement.
The technical issues that wehad in the year enabled us to obtain valuable lessons learned and deploy thosepreventively across the fleet, operating according our Continuous Improvement ideology and corporate values, and with a view to increasing overall fleet reliability.
Monitoring and managing performance iskey to the successful execution of our strategy.
To this end, we have a range of KPIs which correlate with the goals and objectives of the business units and the Company as a whole.
As operational excellence is one of our core values, theCompany has developed an integrated strategy for pushing improvement.
Forexample, in KivuWatt, the permanent monitoring of activities was established forall processes.
The 24 7 online monitoring of the lake parameters allowedKivuWatt not only to comply withthe local environmental regulations butto sustainably harvest biogas from INTERVENING TO thedepthsof Lake Kivu with an efficiency In parallel, working towards the Operational thatexceeded expectations.
Excellence goal, we are deploying several IMPROVE IN 2018 WE new era projects within our fleet, including We further improved our organization machine-learning tools, H&S high-tech, CARRIED OUT SAFETY bydeveloping an internal talent pool, data analytics and others.
Having those INTERVENTIONS AT TWO promoting expertise from within the tools and solutions deployed will allow Company.
We are committed to developing usto substantially improve the level of SITES, WITH OUR H&S global careers and accelerating the technical performance of our fleet across EXPERTS COMING IN professional development of our top talent.
all technologies and maintain our H&S top The Worker Exchange Program is a way decile performance.
We strongly believe TOWORK CLOSELY WITH forworkers to benefit from the knowledge that investment in such technology SITE PERSONNEL TO sharing and best practices of other parts todayisa must for efficient and safe ofthe ContourGlobal world.
In doing so, operations tomorrow.
weare building a base of future leaders and enabling global sharing of knowledge Committed to organizational learning and best practices across the board.
In 2018, we successfully deployed several organizational projects, which allowed usto further pursue a lean organizational design and obtain next level of organization and technical synergies.
In particular, wehave created an operational cluster based in Spain, leveraging the expertise ofour 800 MW Arrubal CCGT facility to ournewly acquired 250 MW CSP portfolio: further developed our Engines cluster located in Sub-Saharan Africa and successfully integrated our four newlyacquired Solutions Brazil cogeneration facilities into our European Solutions fleet.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 41 Developing new battery technology on the island of Bonaire On the island of Bonaire in the Caribbean, weare responsible for 98% of the countrys electricity supply.
Reliability is paramount: power plant outages that would be an inconvenience inother locations would, onanisland, black outcustomers.
Atthesametime, electricity has traditionally been very expensive on islands.
Weare investing innew battery technology tosupport cheaper, more reliable renewable energy.
Since arriving in Bonaire, we have transformed the provision of energy, ensuring greater reliability.
Blackouts used to be practically aweekly event but there havent been any foralmost three years.
We solved the technicalissues and have also succeeded indecreasing costs.
With our investment in battery technology weplan to build further onour success, addingsolar power tothe current mix of windgeneration and liquid fuel.
Using ArtificiaI Intelligence tooptimize performance inBulgaria We piloted an artificial intelligence AI project at our Maritsa plant in Bulgaria to explore new ways of predicting failures before they occur.
The results have been very promising and we plan to expand the project across the fleet in2019.
Investing in preventative failure technology will help us to optimize ourperformance even further.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 42 Business review continued Continuing to grow 2 well around the world We are confident in maintaining our growth rate despiteour increasing scale.
In 2018 we had a number of key growth achievements around the world.
Forging a long-term partnership In October 2018 we executed a  with Credit Suisse Energy Infrastructure Partners CSEIP tosell 49% of our Italian and Slovakian solar photovoltaic portfolio at an attractive Increasing our solar premium, contributing $20.9 million to 2018 Adjusted EBITDA.
We also signed an asset management agreement for existing and power in Italy and Spain prospective facilities, and a development agreement with a view to seeking new acquisition opportunities.
For the last four years in Italy, we have been implementing CSEIP is one of the European leaders in aSolar Rollup strategy to grow our solar photovoltaic direct energy infrastructure investment and portfolio.
In line with the strategy, we adopt an industrialized our partnership marks the next milestone in approach to M&A to acquire new assets, implement a our Solar Rollup strategy.
Our collaboration quickintegration plan for new plants and insource all the with a long-term financial partner who operations and maintenance O&M activities within the first values our world-class asset management and O&M capabilities provides us with the few months of acquisition.
Its an approach rooted in the opportunity to create further value through ContourGlobal way of growing well.
asset management and development fees.
Our objective is to grow the portfolio to 250 MW over the next five years.
Extending the partnership into Spain Our partnership with CSEIP extended beyond Italy into Spain in 2018.
InDecember 2018, we entered into another 49% farm-down agreement inrelation toour five concentrated solarpower CSP plants inSouth-West Spain with a total capacity of250 MW.
Thistransaction is expected toclose inthefirst half of 2019 and will allow ustocrystallize significant value shortly after acquiring the assets inthe first halfofin2018.
As in Italy, wecontinue toprovideasset management and O&Mservices to the power plants.
Growing the solar portfolio in Italy Back in 2014, we had a 13 MW solar photovoltaic portfolio in Italy.
With the latest15 MW acquisition of a further six assets in2018, we grew the portfolio to above 65MW, bringing our total European PV portfolio to 106 MW and our total European solar portfolio to 356 MW.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 43 A MAJOR SOLAR PLAYER Investing in an attractive technology Following the acquisition, Spain is In 2017 we identified the Spanish CSP nowourbiggest contributor to Adjusted INEUROPE WITH OUR portfolio as an overlooked asset class EBITDA, representing c. $200 million GROWTH IN ITALY AND which would provide apremium return, onafull-year basis.
We see new greenfield room for significant potential operational development opportunities forCSP in SPAIN, OUR TOTAL improvements and the opportunity to Spain and elsewhere, as well asadditional EUROPEAN SOLAR refinance assets and create value.
PRESENCE IS NOW We closed the transaction in May 2018.
Implementing our own way of excelling 356 MW.
Itisthe largest ContourGlobal acquisition As soon as the assets were acquired we to date and involved the largest financing began implementing our operational and on an asset level in the history of the Health and Safety standards, improving Company.
We put in place an innovative performance and paving the way for the structured loan fully underwritten by subsequent farm-down.
Goldman Sachs, with an 18-year duration.
We continue to see CSP as an attractive niche technology for us.
Following our first acquisition we are looking to use this as aplatform to explore and acquire other CSP assets, in Spain and elsewhere.
Italy and Slovakia PV sell-down Solar growth MW Partnership with CSEIP marks the next milestone for our Over the next three years, 107 European PV Portfolio is European solar roll-up strategy as it combines extensive 35 250 expected to grow to over industry network, considerable transaction experience 85 and sector-specific knowledge of two leading institutions.
Net Equity Multiple: 35 2.3x and implied EV of 334 million 50 Operation Solar PV 31 Location Italy and Slovakia 7 Capacity 2016 2017 2018 99 MW total installed capacity Duration Italy Slovakia Romania Closed October 2018 ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 44 Business review continued 2 Continuing to grow well around the world continued The expected 1.3 billion investment will beatthe heart of Kosovos developing economy.
It will be the biggest foreign direct investment FDI ever made in thecountry.
Planned to start operating in 2023, Kosovo e Re will replace the existing Helping Kosovo inefficient, highly unreliable and heavily polluting Kosovo A Plant, which is beyond its design life.
Kosovo e Re will be based modernize and grow on the latest EU environmental directives and the highest technical global standards as set by the OECD.
An ultra super-critical In Kosovo, we are developing a modern 500 MW lignite plant, itwill have net efficiency of above powerplant that will provide much needed reliable, 40%.
Kosovo B, which will reach the end ofitsdesign life in 2024, has frequent affordableenergy to fuel the growth of the country while outages but currently provides the significantly reducing current emissions which are hazardous baseload for the country.
We signed the commercial agreements with the undergo an environmental and technical Government of Kosovo on 20th December 2017.
Under this rehabilitation as well as lifetime extension.
agreement, we will build and operate the plant to the highest After commissioning, Kosovo e Re will provide the base load power for Kosovos EU standards, and then hand the plant over to the electricity needs.
Boosting economic development The new plant will help boost and sustain the economic development of Kosovo, oneof the poorest countries in Europe.
TheWorld Bank has forecasted a 4.5% annual GDP growth for Kosovo until 2022, the highest in the region.
However, businesses in Kosovo suffer an estimated 330 million loss annually due to the currently unreliable power supply.
TheIMFestimates that the new plant couldboost Kosovos growth by up to2%ofGDP in the medium term.
Moreover, theIMF projected Kosovos FDIfor 2018 at141 million.
We will significantly boost thisFDI by investing 325 million during thefour years ofconstruction.
Improving health dramatically Kosovo A is the most polluting plant in Europe.
Replacing Kosovo A with the newKosovo e Re plant will significantly contribute to improving the health of people in Kosovo.
Air quality will be greatly improved by reducing specific emissions reducing mg kWh of Dust by 93%, SOX by 85%, NOX by 93% and CO by 38%.
BRINGING ENOUGH AFFORDABLE, RELIABLE HOME-GROWN ELECTRICITY TO POWER THE NEEDS OF1.5 MILLION KOSOVANS WHILE DRAMATICALLY CUTTING EMISSIONS THENEW PLANT WILL BEAGAME CHANGER FORKOSOVO.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 45 STRONG PARTNERS WEHAVE BEEN WORKING IN CLOSE PARTNERSHIP WITH THE GOVERNMENT OF KOSOVO TO REALIZE THEIR VISION OF CLEAN AIRAND RELIABLE ELECTRICITY FOR THE COUNTRY BY OUR JOINT DEDICATION TO QUALITY, LONG-TERM THINKING AND INDEPENDENT SPIRITS.
So the new plant will not only be key in ensuring security of supply for Kosovos growing energy needs, it will also be instrumental in increasing peoples qualityof life.
Securing reliable, affordable energy The core purpose of the new plant is to supply reliable base load to meet Kosovos Kosovo major milestones growing national electricity demand selfPreparatory site works We have conducted necessary site sufficiently, without having to rely on imports.
Using the latest technology and abundant investigations so that construction can start Commercial close effective date domestic fuel sources, it will be one of as planned.
We analyzed the geotechnical, May 2018 theworlds most modern coal-fired power geological, seismic and other technical plants.
Moreover, it will provide the critical aspects of the site that allows the proper Reception of technical proposals foundation for Kosovo to explore and design of the plant.
We took this task on November 2018 develop further renewable energy solutions directly in order to enable it to be done in future years.
asquickly and efficiently as possible EPC Selection inpartnership with the Government.
April 2019 Selecting the contractor Atthesame time we have thoroughly A key task was to work towards identifying analyzed the site for existing environmental Commercial Operational Date COD the turnkey engineering, procurement and conditions and have initiated the process 2023 of engaging a contractor that will clean construction EPC contractor for the project.
We started with a pre-qualification process in upand prepare the site prior to start of June 2018 and announced four pre-qualified construction.
We are pleased to say we attracted the interest of some of the highest Assessing environmental and social impact We have allocated a 10 million fund for quality and strongest players in the sector.
The project has also been going through community projects.
We are exploring InNovember we received the first stage arigorous environmental and social impact potential projects in education, technical proposal, and in February 2019 assessment ESIA.
This has included entrepreneurship, health and the wereceived the commercial proposals.
engaging heavily with the local community environment and will begin investing During the first half of 2019 we will select through many public discussions and assoon as construction starts in 2019. theEPC contractor.
Throughout, a great deal consultations to explain the project and of work has been done to make the whole understand peoples needs and concerns.
Looking ahead process as smooth and quick as possible.
We finalized the ESIA in November and As we were implementing our performance itisnow being reviewed by international targets for 2018, we had a clear eye on Progress in finalizing the financing financial institutions.
even more ambitious targets for 2019.
We asked all EPC bidders to come up 2019will be the year when we break withpotential financing options, including Enjoying strong community support ground on this landmark project which commitments from various export credit We continue to see strong support from hasbeen under preparation by the agencies around the world.
This financing thecommunity, not least because of the Government since 2005.
We intend to will be combined with other Development significant health benefits, the stable source startthe construction activities of the site Finance Institutions financing, and our own of power for local homes and businesses preparation site remediation in Q2 2019, 30% equity.
The financial arrangements will and the employment opportunities.
and to sign thefinancing agreements be finalized in line with the EPC contract so According to a recent survey by the before the endof Q3 2019.
We will that construction can begin as planned.
USAgency for International Development diligently manage theEPC contractor USAID, 8 out of 10 respondents thatwill immediately start conducting supportedthe construction ofKosovo e Re.
Gaining permits thedetailed design andmanufacturing In 2018 we focused on gaining all the Approximately 10,000 jobs will be created ofmajor equipment, and finalize site necessary permits for the project in good during the construction phase alone.
mobilization by Q3 of 2019. time, submitting high quality applications Wearelooking forward to recruiting more well in advance.
Our target is to have all talent from the local community, providing necessary permits in place by the great opportunities for Kosovans and construction start date.
adding to our global pool of highly skilled and dedicated people around the world.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 46 Business review continued 2 Continuing to grow well around the world continued The expansion of our cogeneration Solutions business into Mexico is another big step forward in our strategy to pursue high quality partner-led growth around the world using corporate PPAs.
Expanding our We expect the acquisition to add $110 million to our Adjusted EBITDA in the first full year of operations.
Solutions business into Mexico In January 2019 we reached agreement with Alpek S. A.
B. deC. V. Alpek to acquire its portfolio of two natural gas-fired combined heat and power CHP plants with Second right agrossinstalled capacity of 518 MW, together with Photographer: Larissa Testoni Title: Cupisnique Wind development rights and permits for a third plant, for Location: Cupisnique Wind Farm, Per $724million in cash plus $77 million of refundable VAT.
This photo captures the sea breeze in the Thetwo plants will provide electricity and steam under afternoonwith the wind farm on the horizon.
long-term contracts to subsidiaries of Alfa Group, The judges liked the mood created by the aleadingMexican industrial conglomerate, and other end-of-day light and the good use of scale commercial and industrial customers.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 47 Wind and hydro Frequently, the lines between operations and growth areblurred.
Such is the case when we rehabilitate or repower older facilities.
This is dynamic and cutting-edge work that harnesses new power and information technology toproduce dramatically more electricity at a lower cost.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 48 Business review continued 2 Continuing to grow well around the world continued Repowering wind plants inAustria Repowering is an opportunity to deploy new wind generation technology on existing sites to increase production.
Project Velm-Gtzendorf commenced operations in January 2019, ontime and budget.
Project Scharndorf is currently under construction and will go into operation before the end of Q2 2019.
Making the most of our Austrian assets The construction of four new Vestas We currently have a total installed wind V126turbines started in June 2018. capacity in Austria of 155 MW 5.1% of Eachhas a capacity of 3.3 MW and a total theoverall total in the country.
Our fleet annual production of 34.1 GWh, which can consists of both old and new turbines.
Ournew wind farms have an industryAll four turbines reached the Commercial leading high average availability of Operation Date COD of 31st January 2019 around99%.
Our old wind farms also within budget and on time.
havea high average availability for theirage, around 98%.
This repowering has reduced the number of turbines from ten to four, minimizing We are always looking to optimize the thewind farms footprint while significantly performance of these assets.
If we see increasing production by 63%.
theright opportunities, we will also add tothe portfolio in line with our Group-wide Increasing production by 96% at commitment to continuous improvement Scharndorf 1A and high growth.
Wind park Scharndorf consisted of 12turbines with a capacity of 2 MW One key way we are increasing both eachanda total capacity of 24 MW.
capacity and efficiency is by repowering InPhase I, for Scharndorf 1A five turbines our old portfolio of wind assets.
The average annual Weacquired our Velm and Scharndorf production of Scharndorf 1A was windfarms in 2015 and throughout 2018 23.9GWh, enough to provide green have been focusing on successfully energy to 5,900 households.
In 2018 we pressed on with repowering MORE ENVIRONMENTALLY Increasing production by 63% at Velm theturbines.
Rather than scrap the old FRIENDLY ENERGY At the time of acquisition Velm consisted turbines, we succeeded in reselling them, of10 DeWind D6 turbines with a capacity not only providing financial benefits for BYREPOWERING OUR of1.25 MW each and a total capacity of usbut also prolonging their useful life.
The average annual production was 20.9 GWh, providing electricity for We are replacing the old turbines with five WE ARE SIGNIFICANTLY 5,300 households.
new Senvion M122 turbines with a capacity INCREASING PRODUCTION of 3.4 MW each, providing a total annual We began planning the repowering energy production of 46.8 GWh.
The new AND EFFICIENCY WHILE ofwindpark Velm in August 2017. turbines are in the same location as the ALSO REDUCING Theremoval of the ten old wind turbines oldones, so no additional areas will took just two months, starting in March beaffected.
Itwas a fast, efficient process that was alsocompleted safely, with no Lost Time Incidents LTIs or environmental incidents.
Strong project management andwell-organized scheduling was keytoensure the project stayed below budget.
We were also able to resell certaincomponents, adding further value.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 49 Applying the ContourGlobal way The repowering is enabling us to increase production at Velm and Scharndorf.
But we have also improved existing operations.
When we acquired the assets back in 2015 almost everything was outsourced.
As with all our acquisitions around the world, we insourced plant management, brought knowledge and control inside, and applied our own high global standards and processes to increase performance anddecrease costs.
At the end of 2017, availability factor was higher by 2.2% andfixed costs had reduced by 20% compared to when it was acquired.
In 2018 we focused on yaw alignment of our turbines.
By making sure our turbines are aligned properly we can squeeze more power out of them.
We could confirm an average yaw misalignment on our turbines in Berg, Scharndorf and Hagn of 3.36 which equals a yearly production loss of 0.3%.
Compared to the industry average of6, ContourGlobal turbines are adjusted Rapid progress on the wind repowering in Austria precisely.
Nevertheless, the misalignment has been corrected.
Considering implementation costs, amortization time of Repowering of four Austrian wind parks is halfway there the LIDAR campaign is three years.
This is Overview - Phase I Projects Overview - Phase II Projects even more important when, in a year such The construction of Velm-Gtzendorf The development of four additional as 2018, wind levels are relatively low.
VG and Scharndorf 1A SD 1A started repowering projects is on track and all inMarch and June 2018 permits were received in 2018 for Berg Investing in communities The net capacity after repowering will and Trautmannsdorf, and are expected Every year we plan a number of social be of 28 MW in total: VG 12 MW VG in 2019 for the other projects projects for our communities in Austria.
and SD 1A 16 MW Net capacity is expected to be 53-60 In2018, for example we supported a winter The total investment is 43 million.
The MW after repowering project with Caritas to help homeless projects are fully equity funded due to Based on the current regulation these people, which involved providing sleeping the highly attractive unlevered returns, repowering projects will benefit from bags, a warm safe place to sleep and hot however we keep the option to a13 year FiT contract meals.
We supported the municipality of The total investment is estimated to Scharndorf with its day trip for 108 retirees, refinance post COD Commercial operation was achieved bebetween 71-82 million improving the quality of life of the elderly.
inJanuary 2019 for VG, and is expected ContourGlobal is exploring a number In Trautmannsdorf we helped the on Q2 2019 for SD 1A ofadditional projects in Austria in municipality to publish its yearly, Secured Feed-in-Tariff FiT pre-feasibility phase complimentary calendar.
We also took partin Vienna Red Nose Day, running toraise money for sick children.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 50 Business review continued 2 Continuing to grow well around the world continued Refurbishing a prominent hydroasset in Armenia We acquired the Vorotan hydro cascade in 2015, a 404 MW hydro cascade that dates back tothe 1970s and plays a critical part inArmenias energy.
Vorotan is the main contributor of Armenias hydropower, which provides about a third of the countrys total energy production.
ContourGlobal Armenia Hydropowers yearly energy production is 1.0 TWh, approximately 15%of the total production in the country.
The rehabilitation is a result of our collaboration withthe Government of Armenia and some of Europes most prominent development finance 1 2 3 institutions DFI FMO, the DFI of the Netherlands, DEG the DFI of Germany and KFW.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 51 Investing in a major modernization Our acquisition of the Vorotan hydro cascade in 2015 was a unique transaction which saw the Government of Armenia welcome us as the countrys first western investor in the power sector and entrusting us to rehabilitate one of the countrys most important assets.
In 2018 we began the refurbishment as planned.
The work coverstwo aspects of the plant the electromechanical and electrical systems.
Each element is being undertaken by a different world-class specialist contractor.
Voith is responsible for the electromechanical refurbishment: the electrical systems refurbishment is being carried out byEfacec.
There are three plants with a total of seven units in the Vorotan cascade.
All seven units will be refurbished as part of the plan, which is due to be completed in 2020.
Work began on Tatev Unit 1, the first unit, inJune 2018, four months ahead of schedule.
The 62.9 million investment includes civil works, rehabilitating turbines, generators, auxiliary systems, main transformers, auxiliary transformers, 2018 was our best year for operational performance, with availability of 98.6%, aswellas replacing control and protection systems, switchgear equipment and 1.3% ahead of budget.
This great cabling and auxiliary electrical systems.
performance is the result of the complete reorganization and build-up of operational Progressing well expertise in Vorotan since acquisition.
Our work to modernize the Vorotan hydro cascade has been progressing well We have implemented the ContourGlobal inline with budget, ahead of schedule way of working while investing in local andin accordance with our high quality talent, sothat today 100% of Vorotans standards.
Unit 1 of Tatev hydro plant employees operating the cascade are thefirst of theseven units to be fromArmenia all of them trained in and refurbished has undergone a change in committed to our global way of excelling.
key electromechanical components and is In 2019, the refurbishment work will back into operation.
The second and third units of Tatev, as well as the Spandaryan increase in intensity, with a number and Shamb hydro plants, will follow shortly.
Some of the installed equipment like the Wehave prepared a plan for this and MV switchgear and the 110kV switchyard areworking closely with the Government equipment are completely new for the andregulators to ensure both the Armenian energy market, serving as refurbishment and daily operations leading examples for other energy continue to run smoothly.
Increasing efficiency and reliability There are very strict obligations Once the three plants have been regardingthe environmental impact of the refurbished, they will be the most modern hydro facilities in Armenia.
In 2018 we implemented amulti-year monitoring program to ensure willflow.
The plants will be more reliable, the rehabilitation will in no way affect the with fewer forced outages and unpredictable fish in the reservoirs and the river itself.
They will be more efficient, so we will be able to produce more power We are also ensuring that any asbestos with the same amount of water.
They will onthe site is removed and contained in also be more environmentally friendly.
line with the highest standards of safety Overall the refurbishment will have a large and best practice.
positive impact for Armenia and for us.
Ensuring daily operations run smoothly Looking to grow further in Armenia We are aligning the refurbishment work In Vorotan we have a very strong base with the day-to-day operations of the three forour presence in Armenia.
It is a great plants, to ensure maximum availability so asset that we are transforming for the this critical asset continues to play its part 21stcentury and we have a very strong in providing energy for Armenia.
Building on this foundation, we are looking to grow 1 further in Armenia, for example through Nederlandse   DEG.
new hydro projects and other renewable 2 Deutsche Investitionsund and thermal energy opportunities.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 52 Business review continued 3 Advancing in renewable growth 2018 was punctuated by an extraordinary level of activity intheRenewable division.
We grew in many ways: from  through solar acquisitions in Italy andSpain, tore-powering of our wind assets in Austria so we cantake advantage ofthe latest, highly efficient wind turbines, tomodernization of our Vorotan facility in Armenia where we arereplacing aging equipment with new components at the latesttechnological standards all described in more detail ontheprevious pages.
Renewables an integrated platform Growth in 2018 Application of technology, strong focus oncontinuous improvement and datadriven decision making are critical in ensuring thatour renewable power plants operate as a well-integrated platform and create astrong foundation enabling us toscale effectively and efficiently when wegrow.
In2018, we introduced a number of technology solutions based on systems such as Microsoft Business Intelligence foradvanced analytics, workflow solutions based on Microsoft Sharepoint and financial enhancements in SAP.
Our technology platforms enable us to apply in-depth analytics in both strategic management and day-to-day operational decisions, closely monitor performance, manage operations projects effectively and, critically, integrate newly acquired businesses quickly and efficiently.
Allintegrations in 2018 were completed ontime and on budget.
We complement our focus on technology with a strong commitment to continuous improvement.
Our approach to the latter, which we base on the Five Whys methodology, enables us to drill down to the root causes of issues in a consistent, highly effective way so we can identify andimplement valuable long-term improvements.
Winner left Photographer: Victor Hugo Melo Brito Title: New landscape in the hinterland Location: Asa Branca Wind Farm, Brazil This photo shows technology and nature togethercreating a new landscape.
The judges were particularly taken with the juxtaposition and depth of field of Victors image.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 53 Focus on technology GETTING TO THE HEART As we move into 2019, we continue to OFIMPROVEMENTS drive our digital technology strategy to further underpin our operational platform IN2018 WE CARRIED OUT with best-in-class analytical systems.
88 FIVE WHYS ACROSS THE Aftercarrying out market research, weselected a partner, Bahwan Cybertek, RENEWABLE DIVISION to implement a new system called Retina A110% INCREASE THAT HAS across the whole Renewable fleet.
Thisstate-of-the-art system will deliver HELPED US POWER AHEAD acomprehensive suite of centralized WITH IDENTIFYING THE operational, management and predictive analytics, withalgorithmic learning, ROOT CAUSES OF ISSUES trendanalysis and risk management AND, IN TURN, MAKE acrossthe whole portfolio.
VALUABLE LONG-TERM For example, using the predictive IMPROVEMENTS.
capabilities of the platform we will be ableto evaluate the risk of component failure over time, and optimize our maintenance activities while achieving improvements inoperational performance.
Using sophisticated technology platforms to support our culture of continuous improvement will enable us to continue operating and growing in a sustainable way while achieving our targets for operational excellence.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 54 Business review continued 4 Being responsible We strive for social and environmental excellence.
1 At ContourGlobal, social and environmental 2014-2018 CO Emissions summary Compliance with regulations and legislation excellence requires a deep understanding and alignment to global best practice of the impact electricity generation has t m tonnes MWh Maintaining or decreasing our carbon, 10 1.2 onour people, our communities and the airand waste footprint natural world.
We believe our people are Training and development for our workforce our greatest resource and we embrace Launching targeted social investments 1.0 8 diversity and invest in capacity building.
aligned to our core business objectives Westrive to make the communities 0.8 6 wherewe work better because we One of the most significant environmental impacts of our Thermal portfolio is our arethere andundertake social impact assessments to ensure we know and COemissions.
We set a target in 2014 0.6 4 understand theplaces where we operate.
tomaintain or reduce our intensity of Powergeneration by its nature impacts carbon emissions, i. e. the carbon emissions 0.4 2 many environmental aspects air, water in tonnes MWh.
We have achieved this andbiodiversity, for example and we through growth in our Renewable portfolio seek tominimize negative environmental 0.2 and promoting efficiency in power 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 impacts and, where possible, repair plantoperations.
CO Emissions, tonnes Third above Net CO2 tonnes MWh Our social and environmental governance Photographer: Victor Hugo Melo Brito is centered around our Policy on Social Title: Overview Goiandira CO emissions includes emissions Responsibility and Environmental Location: PCH Goiandira, Brazil fromcombustion of fuel, purchase Sustainability, a policy aligned with ofelectricity, heat, steam and cooling, This photo shows a powerhouse and substation theInternational Finance Corporation including a power plants own use.
blending into the natural landscape of rocks and river.
Our policy, and accompanying social and environmental The judges were struck by the composition of strategy frameworks, set out how we will Victors image showing how human ingenuity achieve social and operational excellence andengineering can work with the natural and include: worldtocreate energy for local communities.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 55 Our people Supporting local communities Social investment projects A diverse and inclusive workforce drives Were committed to making a positive our excellence, providing a broad range difference in the communities where oftechnical expertise, cultural sensitivity wework.
In 2018, 283 ContourGlobal and different approaches to problem employees spent more than 20,500 hours solving.
We promote gender diversity on our social investment initiatives and across our business and have had great anadditional 2,800 hours volunteering success at achieving a good balance in inour communities.
projects Our financial contribution to social Diversity investment projects was almost $2.4 million Male Female Total in2018, an increase of 102% compared Board of 7 1 8 to2017.
Our social investment projects, Directors including projects to improve education 42projects, promote health and wellSenior 4 5 9 management being 28 projects and improve community infrastructure 13 projects impacted l 45% Europe Total 1,200 289 1,489 approximately 990,000 beneficiaries.
l 40% LatAm Company l 14% Africa l 1% America Learning and improving together We know that to get the best out of our people we need to invest in them, both professionally and personally.
One of theways in which we do this is through ourWorker Exchange Program WEP, which enables our employees to work at other business locations to share business practices and gain technical experience.
