28 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Business reviews: North America Net sales by markets Net sales by categories Net sales by price points North America % % % North America, the largest market for premium drinks in the world, represents about a third of our net sales and around half of operating profit.
Our consumer is at the i US Spirits Travel Retail Spirits Ready to drink Value Super premium heart of everything we do, and we DBC USA North America Beer Other Standard Ultra premium Canada Premium Prestige are focused on sustainable growth i excluding RTDs through our strategy of getting Acquisitions Organic Reported the right brands in the right Key financials Reclassifii 2017 Exchange and disposals movement 2018 movement cation million million million million million % occasions at the right price.
In the million Net sales 4,161 228 8 49 142 4,116 1 year, we completed the acquisition Marketing 642 21 2 8 35 662 3 of Casamigos to further strengthen Operating profit 1,899 60 4 4 43 1,882 1 our participation in the fast i Reclassification comprises changes to a reallocation of the results of the Travel Retail operations to the geographical regions.
Route to consumer Sustainability and responsibility Our markets The route to consumer in the United States In 2017, the Caribbean faced an The North America business, headquartered unprecedented hurricane season.
The US is through the three-tier system and we in Norwalk, Connecticut, is comprised of distribute our products through Virgin Islands, home to our distillery on US Spirits and Diageo Beer Company approximately 40 spirits distributors and St. Croix and many of our employees, were USA DBC USA and also Diageo Canada, brokers, and more than 400 beer distributors.
one of the many areas affected.
In response headquartered in Toronto.
weve provided over $1 million to date to Our United States spirits business has approximately 2,500 dedicated distributor fund relief efforts, including provision of Supply operations sales people focused only on Diageo and water, food and temporary power.
With 10 domestic production facilities Mot Hennessy spirits brands.
We have We remain leaders in responsible across the United States, Canada and the drinking, building on programmes consolidated our US Spirits business into US Virgin Islands, Diageo North Americas single distributors or brokers in 41 states and promoting moderation and reducing economic impact is significant.
We have the District of Columbia, representing more alcohol-related harm.
Our drunk driving made major investments in innovation than 80% of our US Spirits volume.
virtual experience, Decisions, gained over and sustainability.
In addition to opening a The US Spirits business operates through 14 million views with 73% of viewers more brand new Bulleit Frontier Whiskey distillery three divisions in open states where we sell likely to stop others from drinking and in Shelbyville, Kentucky in 2017 we opened to distributors who then sell to retailers, and driving.
Decisions: Partys Over, launched our new Guinness Open Gate Brewery & through one division covering control states in April 2018 and focuses on the dangers Barrel House in the summer of 2018, in where we sell to the state, which in turn sells of binge drinking.
to state or agency stores and on premise Since 2007, North America has retailers.
DBC USA sells and markets brands cumulatively reduced greenhouse gas including Guinness and Smirnoff Ice.
Beer emissions by 80% and improved water use distribution generally follows the three-tier efficiency by 16% versus the baseline.
Driving open state regulations across the United further improvements in water efficiency is States.
Diageo Canada distributes our a key priority for F19.
While hurricane-related portfolio of spirits and beer brands across disruption prevented us from meeting waste all Canadian provinces, which generally reduction targets, we have taken remedial operate through a provincial control system.
action and are confident of improvement Diageo Canada operates through a single next year.
broker with a dedicated sales force handling As we continue our commitment to our brands in the country.
National brand safety, North America celebrated zero lost strategy, strategic accounts marketing and time accidents for the first time in the corporate functions are managed at the markets history.
Strategic report Business reviews: North America DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 29 Reported Organic Reported North America delivered net sales growth Organic volume volume net sales net sales of 4% with US Spirits growing 3% and movement movement movement movement Markets: % % % % continued growth in both Diageo Beer North America 1 2 4 1 Company USA DBC USA and Canada.
In US Spirits, category share gains were achieved US Spirits 1 2 3 1 for all key brands except in vodka.
Crown DBC USA 5 5 5 1 Royal grew 3% with Crown Royal Deluxe Canada 1 1 and Crown Royal Regal Apple growth accelerating, partially offset by Crown Royal Spirits 1 2 3 Vanilla lapping its launch last year.
Bulleit Beer 2 2 1 6 continued its double digit growth, up 10%.
Ready to drink 11 11 12 6 Scotch grew 4% with Johnnie Walker up Organic Reported 6%, driven by Johnnie Walker Black Label Organic volume net sales net sales Global giants, local stars ii growing 5% and double digit growth in movement movement movement i and reserve : % % % reserve variants.
Baileys growth accelerated Crown Royal 2 3 3 while Captain Morgan growth moderated Smirnoff 1 2 8 as it cycled a strong performance last year.
Captain Morgan 1 7 Vodka net sales, while declining 3%, showed some improvement versus last Johnnie Walker 5 8 6 iii year driven by Ketel One vodka and Croc Ketel One vodka 3 2 7 vodka.
Smirnoff net sales were down 2%.
Croc vodka 1 4 10 Don Julio growth accelerated with net sales Baileys 9 11 6 growing 37%.
DBC USA net sales grew 5% Guinness 1 5 with ready to drink growing 14% and beer Tanqueray 4 3 3 declining 2%.
Net sales in Canada were up Don Julio 36 37 30 1%.
Marketing in North America increased Bulleit 8 10 4 6% and grew ahead of net sales as Buchanans 2 5 investment was up-weighted.
Operating i Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
margin declined 58bps as the impact ii Organic equals reported volume movement except Johnnie Walker 7%, Baileys 10% and Buchanans 3% due to the reallocation of the Travel Retail operations.
ofincreased marketing, hurricane iii Ketel One vodka includes Ketel One Botanicals.
remediation costs and logistics inflation more than offset the benefits from vodka saw some improvement in Net sales in Canada grew 1% driven by productivity initiatives.
performance with the focus on core growth in Johnnie Walker, Baileys, variants.
Smirnoff net sales declined 2% Guinness and ready to drink.
Johnnie with brand equity scores improving as it Walker benefitted from a focus on Key highlights continued to remind consumers that it is Johnnie Walker Black Label highlighting Net sales in US Spirits were up 3%.
Net a quality vodka at a great price.
The Live its credentials to consumers through sales were broadly in line with depletions.
like a Captain campaign continues to mentoring events, media and in-store Crown Royal and Bulleit continued share resonate with consumers, driving activation.
Guinness benefitted from the gains in the Canadian whisky and US category share and equity gains for growth in the on-trade and the launch of whiskey categories, respectively.
Baileys growth Hop House 13 Lager.
Generosity platform is working for Crown accelerated versus last year as it reminded Marketing grew 6% with the Royal, driving gains in equity and category consumers of its indulgent treat upweighting of marketing investment share.
Crown Royal net sales grew 3% with positioning over the holidays.
Don Julio funded largely from productivity acceleration in Crown Royal Deluxe and net sales grew 37% with growth and initiatives.
Crown Royal Regal Apple growth partially category share gains accelerating versus offset by Crown Royal Vanilla cycling its last year.
Johnnie Walker grew 6% DBC USA net sales increased 5% with with the successful Keep Walking ready to drink growing 14%.
Ready to America platform being followed up by drink growth was driven by continued a new campaign Step Right up, scaled growth of Smirnoff Ice and Smirnoff up liquid on lips and continued focus on Spiked Sparkling Seltzer, and the launch Johnnie Walker Blue Label in the gifting of Smirnoff Ice Smash.
Buchanans net sales were with Guinness declining 1%.
broadly flat with depletion performance improving in the second half and category share gains continuing.
Vodka while declining, showed some improvement versus last year.
Ketel One vodka benefitted from the execution of improved plans, as did the trademark from the launch of Ketel One Botanicals.
Croc 30 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Business reviews: Europe and Turkey Net sales by markets Net sales by categories Net sales by price points Europe and % % % Turkey Within the geography of Europe there are two markets: Europe and Turkey.
In Europe consumer marketing programmes are developed at a market level to i Europe Other Spirits Ready to drink Value Super premium drive consistency, efficiency and Turkey principally Beer Other Standard Ultra premium scale across all countries.
In Turkey Travel Retail Premium Prestige i excluding RTDs we use our local businesss route Acquisitions Organic Reported to consumer to drive growth in Key financials Reclassifii 2017 Exchange and disposals movement 2018 movement cation million million million million million % international premium spirits.
We million Net sales 2,824 15 16 3 110 2,932 4 are focused on the rigorous 28 474 7 Marketing 443 2 1 execution of our strategy through Operating profit before 74 1,028 10 continued investment behind our exceptional items 936 7 11 Exceptional brands.
In the year, we completed ii operating items 33 the acquisition of Belsazar GmbH Operating profit 903 1,028 14 to strengthen our participation in i Reclassification comprises changes to a reallocation of the results of the Travel Retail operations to the geographical regions.
the aperitif occasion, to respond ii For further details of exceptional operating items see pages 114 to 116. to new consumer trends shifting manufactures whisky, vodka, gin, rum, beer, In Russia we operate through a wholly towards more casual occasions.
wine, cream liqueurs, and other spirit-based drinks which are distributed in over 180 In Turkey, we sell our products via the Our markets countries.
Over the next three years a distribution network of Mey ki, our wholly Europe comprises Great Britain, Ireland, 150 million investment will transform our owned subsidiary.
Mey ki distributes both France, Continental Europe including Scotch whisky visitor experiences through local brands raki, other spirits and wine Northern Europe, Central Europe, Iberia, investment in our 12 malt whisky distillery and Diageos global spirits brands.
the Mediterranean and the Europe Partner visitor centres with a focus on the Four Markets distribution businesses and Russia, Sustainability and responsibility Corners distilleries, Glenkinchie, Caol Ila, whilst Turkey is a standalone market.
Europe We see our work to promote moderation Clynelish and Cardhu, celebrating the is managed as a single market with country and reduce alcohol-related harm as both important role these single malts play in the teams focusing on sales and customer a responsibility and a key strength.
Our flavours of Johnnie Walker.
Raki, vodka and marketing execution.
Smashed theatre-based education programme, wine are produced at a number of sites in for example, which began in Great Britain and Supply operations Turkey and Smirnov vodka and other local is now global, visits schools to discourage A number of Diageos International Supply brands are produced in Russia.
We also launched our Centre ISC operations are located in Europe Route to consumer 'Stay Yourself' moderation campaign in including sites in the United Kingdom, Ireland In Great Britain we sell and market our university campuses across Europe, with a goal and Italy.
The group owns 29 distilleries in products through Diageo GB spirits, beer of reaching five million students in 13 countries Scotland, a Dublin based brewery and and ready to drink and Justerini & Brooks Fine by the end of the 2018 calendar year.
maturation and packaging facilities in Wines wines private clients.
Products are We bring the same focus on impact to Scotland, England, Ireland and Italy.
The ISC distributed through independent wholesalers other areas of our strategy.
We published leads all supply chain activities for Europe and and directly to retailers.
In the on-trade, research into our Learning for Life L4L skills products are sold through major brewers, programme, which told us that graduates felt multiple retail groups and smaller regional increased self-efficacy, self-esteem and independent brewers and wholesalers.
In the self-confidence: 77% of participants felt that Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, they had become more responsible drinkers.
Diageo sells and distributes directly to the We will use insights from this study to guide on-trade and the off-trade as well as future programme design.
In France our products are sold We have also strengthened the through a joint venture arrangement with sustainability of our agricultural supply chain Mot Hennessy.
In Continental Europe, we through our work with Scottish Quality Crops distribute our spirits brands primarily to agree standards through their certification through our own distribution companies.
In Marketing and Sales functions Europe Partner Markets distributes our beer around Europe, we more than halved our lost brands in mainland Europe, focusing time accidents from the prior year through on Germany, Russia and France, our largest a renewed focus on core safety programs, mainland European beer markets.
Strategic report Business reviews: Europe and Turkey DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 31 Reported Organic Reported The region delivered 4% net sales growth, Organic volume volume net sales net sales reflecting another year of consistent movement movement movement movement Markets: % % % % performance in Europe where net sales Europe and Turkey 4 4 4 4 were up 4% and a strong performance in Turkey growing net sales by 11%.
Europe i Europe 5 7 4 8 growth was largely driven by Great Britain, Turkey 5 5 11 7 Ireland and Continental Europe, with continued share gains in spirits, up 50bps Spirits 4 4 4 4 across Western Europe.
Performance was Beer 4 4 4 6 led by strong growth in gin, where Ready to drink 12 12 11 11 Tanqueray gained share in the fastest Organic Reported growing category and Gordons benefitted Organic volume net sales net sales iii from the launch of its Pink variant.
movement movement movement ii Global giants and local stars : % % % Guinness was up 6% driven by a good Guinness 5 6 8 performance for Guinness Draught Johnnie Walker 2 8 supported by double digit growth in Hop Smirnoff 4 4 4 House 13 Lager.
Net sales of Captain Baileys 8 6 7 Morgan grew 7%.
Johnnie Walker grew 2% 10 9 despite lapping a strong performance last Yen Raki Captain Morgan 5 6 10 year.
Smirnoff declined 4% driven by Iberia JB 5 10 7 and Great Britain, in line with the vodka Tanqueray 18 18 22 category.
In Turkey net sales were up 11% driven by volume growth of 5% and price i Following a change in management responsibilities the Europe market, from 1 July 2017, includes Russia and the Algeria, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon and Morocco markets.
Operating ii Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
margin improved 126bps as up-weighting iii Organic equals reported volume movement except Johnnie Walker 5% due to the reallocation in marketing investment was more than of the Travel Retail operations.
offset by ongoing productivity initiatives Iberia net sales declined 6% due to In Turkey, net sales grew 11% with and lapping other one-off operating costs.
JB driven by category decline and volume growth of 5% and excise led an increased competitive pricing price increases as well as good raki Key highlights environment.
In Central Europe, net sales declined 1%.
In Europe, net sales were up 4%: Marketing investment increased 6% Double digit growth in Tanqueray and In Great Britain, net sales grew 8%.
focused on key growth opportunities good performance from Johnnie Walker Tanqueray delivered strong double digit for the region in Guinness, Johnnie in Poland were offset by a soft net sales growth and gained 30bps share Walker, reserve brands and gin.
performance in Baileys as it lapped in the fastest growing category across Productivity initiatives continued to a strong performance in the prior year, Western Europe and Gordons benefitted improve the efficiency and effectiveness a weaker performance of Captain Morgan from the successful launch of its Pink of the investment.
Guinness net sales increased 8% In Northern Europe net sales were flat and gained 30bps of share in the beer as net sales growth in the Nordics was category, driven by a strong performance offset by a decline in Benelux as the in Guinness Draught and Hop House spirits category slowly began to recover 13 Lager.
Scotch net sales were up 6% following a prior year excise increase.
mainly driven by scotch malts and In the Mediterranean Hub, net sales were Johnnie Walker supported by incremental up 4% largely driven by Italy with broad media activation, liquid on lips and growth across the spirits categories.
Smirnoff Europe Partner Markets grew net declined 2% in line with the vodka sales 8% driven by strong activations, category.
Reserve brands continued to innovation and performance deliver double digit growth, with strong improvement in Johnnie Walker performance led by our scotch portfolio.
Net sales in Ireland were up by 3%.
Russia net sales grew 14% with 5pps Guinness grew 2% driven by the of positive price mix driven by price continued success of Hop House 13 Lager increases in the previous year.
Growth and the launch of the Behind every town was largely driven by scotch led by campaign across the country.
In spirits, Johnnie Walker and strong growth net sales were up 14% largely driven in Captain Morgan.
by strong performance in Gordons In France, net sales were up 1%.
Continued strong performance in In Continental Europe, net sales Captain Morgan and Zacapa was were up 1%: partially offset by weakness in JB.
32 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Business reviews: Africa Net sales by markets Net sales by categories Net sales by price points Africa % % % In Africa our strategy is to grow Diageos leadership across beer and spirits by providing brand choice across a broad range of consumer motivations, profiles, i East Africa South Africa Spirits Ready to drink Value Super premium price points and occasions.
Africa Regional Other Beer Other Standard Ultra premium Markets ARM principally Premium We are focused on growing beer Nigeria Travel Retail fast and accelerating the growth i excluding RTDs of spirits through continued Acquisitions Organic Reported Key financials Reclassifiinvestment in infrastructure and i 2017 Exchange and disposals movement 2018 movement cation million million million million million % million brands to realise the potential of Net sales 1,556 105 1 39 1,491 4 the region.
Local sourcing is a key 3 158 5 Marketing 166 11 element of our strategy in Africa Operating profit before 9 191 12 exceptional items 218 20 2 as it directly supports our Exceptional ii commercial operations, while operating items 128 Operating profit 218 63 71 indirectly supporting our position i Reclassification comprises changes to a reallocation of the results of the Travel Retail operations to the by bringing wider benefits to geographical regions and the results of North African countries which were formerly reported in the Africa geographical regions now being included in Europe and Turkey.
ii For further details of exceptional operating items see pages 114 to 116.
Our markets for Growth programme in Ethiopia, which Route to consumer The region comprises East Africa Kenya, In Nigeria we own 58.02% of a listed now works with 6,400 smallholder farmers, Tanzania, Uganda, Burundi, Rwanda and company whose principal brands are won the New Vision for Development Award South Sudan, Africa Regional Markets Guinness, Malta Guinness, Satzenbrau and from the World Economic Forum.
We also including Ghana, Cameroon, Ethiopia, conducted research in partnership with Dubic, and in East Africa, where we own Angola and a sorghum beer business 50.03% of East African Breweries Limited CARE International on female farmers in our in South Africa, Nigeria and South Africa EABL.
EABL produces and distributes beer barley supply chain in Ethiopia, as part including the Republic of South Africa and spirits brands to a range of consumers of our commitment to furthering women's and Mozambique.
in Kenya and Uganda, and also owns 51% of Serengeti Breweries Limited located in Water stewardship and resilience to Supply operations Tanzania.
Within Africa Regional Markets, climate change-related water scarcity are We operate 12 breweries in Africa, three sites we have wholly owned subsidiaries in vital issues for Diageo: 20 of our production that produce sorghum beer in South Africa, Cameroon, Ethiopia and Reunion and sites in Africa are in water-stressed areas and one cider plant and five facilities which majority owned subsidiaries in Ghana and drought has already affected some supply provide blending and malting services.
Angola is supplied via a third chains.
We focus on managing water In addition, our beer and spirits brands are party distributor.
In South Africa we sell efficiently while enhancing access to clean produced under licence by third-parties spirits and ready to drink products through water for communities through our Water in 16 African countries.
We are also investing our wholly owned subsidiary.
Diageo has of Life programme, which reached over in the future of our beer business by building agreements with the Castel Group who 178,000 people this year.
Our reforestation a new brewery in Kenya with an estimated license, brew and distribute Guinness in programmes around Lake Victoria and cost of 100 million, in order to increase several countries across Africa Regional Mount Kenya are also helping to replenish our capacity in an attractive market.
Diageo sells spirits through key watersheds.
distributors in the majority of other subPromoting moderation and reducing Saharan countries.
alcohol-related harm remain key priorities, and we are implementing our global Sustainability and responsibility commitment to preventing drink driving Our operations and supply chain give us through programmes such as Drive Dry in opportunities to create value beyond our South Africa.
In March 2018 we announced contribution as an African employer, the launch of 'Smashed' in Nigeria and manufacturer and taxpayer.
For example, Ethiopia, a global programme run by our we work with around 80,000 small farmers, partner Collingwood Learning, which helping improve yields, livelihoods and combats underage drinking and is targeting environmental and labour standards, and an initial 30 schools in Lagos state and 30,000 in 2018 78% of our agricultural raw materials students in 30 schools in Addis Ababa.
were sourced and grown locally.
Our Sourcing Strategic report Business reviews: Africa DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 33 Reported Organic Reported Africa net sales grew 3% with growth Organic volume volume net sales net sales inNigeria and with East Africa recovering movement movement movement movement Markets: % % % % from the first half impact of the Africa 3 3 3 4 uncertainty following the presidential election in Kenya.
This was partially offset East Africa 7 7 4 2 by weakness in Africa Regional Markets Africa Regional Markets 5 5 2 7 due to challenging conditions in Nigeria 10 10 13 4 Cameroon and Ethiopia, and a competitive South Africa 1 1 3 4 environment in South Africa.
Across Africa, beer net sales were up 5%, with strong Spirits 10 10 2 1 growth of Dubic in Nigeria and the Beer 5 4 successful launch of Serengeti Lite in Ready to drink 2 2 1 7 Tanzania.
Guinness and Malta Guinness Organic Reported grew 7% and 4% respectively, while Organic volume net sales net sales ii Senator Keg declined in Kenya.
movement movement movement i Global giants and local stars : % % % Mainstream spirits saw continued double Guinness 2 7 digit growth in East Africa and Nigeria Johnnie Walker 5 4 5 partially offset by soft performance of Smirnoff 10 12 Smirnoff 1818 and primary scotch whiskies in South Africa.
Scotch net sales declined Other beer: 6%.
Operating margin declined by 96bps Malta Guinness 4 4 10 driven by input cost inflation, adverse mix Tusker 1 6 and one-off charges, partially offset by Senator 12 12 17 productivity savings in supply, lower Satzenbrau 28 22 34 indirect spend as well as organisational i Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
ii Organic equals reported volume movement except Johnnie Walker 4 % due to the reallocation of the Travel Retail operations.
Key highlights Net sales in South Africa declined 3% In East Africa, net sales grew 4% with largely driven by decline in mainstream a stronger second half performance, with spirits, Smirnoff 1818 and primary scotch whiskies, which were impacted by conditions normalising after the political price increases and an increased uncertainty in the first half.
Beer net sales grew 4% as a decline in Senator Keg in competitive environment.
Kenya was more than offset by the In Nigeria, net sales grew 13%.
Beer grew successful launch of Serengeti Lite in 15% with continued strong growth from Tanzania and Guinness net sales growing Dubic post-launch in the prior year and 8%.
Mainstream spirits continued to Guinness, up 24%, as it benefitted from deliver strong performance driven by the on premise activation against football, improved distribution, consumer leveraging the English Premier League promotions and new launches.
and the football World Cup.
In spirits, net In Africa Regional Markets, net sales sales were up 28% as a result of strong double digit growth in mainstream declined 2% with growth in Ghana more spirits driven by innovation launches than offset by weakness in Cameroon, and new formats.
due to third party distributor challenges in the first half and social unrest, and in Marketing investment increased 2%.
In Ethiopia due to political instability, high Nigeria, marketing was focused on key inflation driven by currency devaluation campaigns including Malta Guinness Fuel and competitive pressures.
This resulted Your Greatness and Satz Smart Choice.
in a double digit decline in scotch.
Beer In East Africa, the focus of marketing net sales were flat with double digit investment was on the Guinness growth in Malta Guinness offset by a campaign Meet The Legend, the Tusker decline in Guinness in Cameroon.
In Here is to Us campaign and the launch Ghana net sales increased 7% with net of Serengeti Lite.
sales growth in Malta Guinness and Guinness offsetting decline in ready to drink where Orijin faced increased competitive pressure.
34 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Business reviews: Latin America and Caribbean Net sales by markets Net sales by categories Net sales by price points Latin America % % % and Caribbean In Latin America and Caribbean the strategic priority is continued leadership in scotch, while broadening our category range through vodka, rum, liqueurs and i PUB PEBAC Spirits Ready to drink Value Super premium tequila.
We continue to invest in Mexico Other Beer Other Standard Ultra premium CCA principally Premium Prestige routes to market and in the Andean Travel Retail breadth and depth of our i excluding RTDs portfolio of leading brands to Acquisitions Organic Reported Key financials Reclassifienable the business to provide the i 2017 Exchange and disposals movement 2018 movement cation million million million million million % million emerging middle class with the Net sales 1,044 43 2 66 1,069 2 premium brands they aspire to.
Marketing 195 8 1 8 196 1 Operating profit 250 10 1 49 308 23 In this regions changing i Reclassification comprises changes to a reallocation of the results of the Travel Retail operations to the regulatory landscape, our geographical regions.
presence is supported by our manufacturing facilities in Mexico to produce Sustainability and responsibility reputation as a trusted and Our Learning for Life L4L programme tequila, in Brazil to produce cachaa and respected business, based on in Guatemala to produce Zacapa rum.
originated in this region and trained our stance on responsible over 5,300 people this year.
By providing Route to consumer drinking, and community skills in areas such as hospitality and We drive an efficient route to consumer entrepreneurship, it continues to be an development programmes.
through differentiated models tailored to important way for us to create value.
This each markets size and needs.
In Mexico year, we celebrated the success of a Our markets and Peru our in-market companies sell former L4L graduate, who won the World Our Latin America and Caribbean LAC directly to retailers and wholesalers.
In Brazil Class Bartender of the Year competition business comprises five markets: PUB we distribute the majority of Ypica in Colombia.
Paraguay, Uruguay and Brazil, Mexico, CCA a cachaa through a reseller network in Our work to tackle underage drinking Central America and Caribbean, Andean Cear state, and serve the rest of the country continues.
Through the Ministry of Colombia and Venezuela and PEBAC and brands via distributors, wholesalers and Education, the Ask, Listen and Learn Peru, Ecuador, Bolivia, Argentina and Chile.
In Andean we partner programme trained children in Grenada and with geographically exclusive distributors, St. Lucia on healthy lifestyle choices and the Supply operations but in Colombia a subsidiary sells to the dangers of underage drinking.
The majority of brands sold in the region key accounts directly.
In most of CCA and In Guatemala, Zacapa Warehousing have are manufactured by our International Argentina we partner with distributors implemented a new rainwater catchment Supply Centre in Europe.
In recent years, in each country who are responsible system, saving over 20,000 litres in the first we have acquired a number of supply for the execution of the sales and two months.
Some of the water saved has operations and expanded our co-packer marketing programmes.
been used to support a new Ecological network across the region.
We have Gardens community initiative.
Finally, our Glass Is Good recycling initiative in Brazil reached a milestone, collecting 20,000 tonnes of glass.
Strategic report Business reviews: Latin America and Caribbean DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 35 In Latin America and Caribbean net sales Reported Organic Reported Organic volume volume net sales net sales grew 7% with strong performances in movement movement movement movement Mexico, PUB, and PEBAC partially offset Markets: % % % % byweakness in the export channels and Latin America and Caribbean 5 5 7 2 declines in the domestic markets of PUB 6 6 11 3 Caribbean and Central America.
Growth Mexico 8 8 12 9 inthe region was broad based across CCA 1 1 4 3 categories.
In scotch, net sales were up Andean 5 6 2 14 3%with continued strong performance PEBAC 24 24 15 12 ofBlack & White in Brazil, Mexico and Colombia and Johnnie Walker was up 3% Spirits 6 5 7 1 across the region.
This was partially offset Beer 3 3 4 5 by a decline in Old Parr in Colombia and Ready to drink 15 15 4 12 the export channels and in Buchanans in Mexico.
Don Julio delivered double digit Organic Reported Organic volume net sales net sales growth.
Gin also performed strongly with ii movement movement movement i Tanqueray more than doubling its net Global giants and local stars : % % % sales with strong growth across the region Johnnie Walker 3 3 3 driven by Brazil and Mexico.
Smirnoff grew Buchanans 5 4 8 double digit driven by Argentina, Mexico Smirnoff 15 16 5 and Brazil.
Operating margin in the region Old Parr 4 11 12 increased 299bps as organisational Baileys 3 4 9 effectiveness benefits, productivity Ypica 2 2 6 savings and the lapping of one-off tax Black & White 38 56 47 charges more than offset adverse mix.
i Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
ii Organic equals reported volume movement except for Johnnie Walker 2%, Baileys 5 % and Old Parr 5 % due to the reallocation of the Travel Retail operations.
Key highlights In Andean Colombia and Venezuela In PUB Paraguay, Uruguay and Brazil net sales declined 2% primarily driven net sales increased 11%.
In Brazil growth by Colombia as last years tax regulations was broad based across spirits categories.
resulted in higher retail selling prices for Scotch net sales were up 11% driven by premium imported whisky, impacting Black & White.
In gin, Tanqueray net sales the performance of Old Parr.
As more than doubled through increased consumers traded down, Black & White activation and distribution.
Smirnoff net was the biggest beneficiary supported by sales increased 4% through new formats up-weighted media campaigns.
In to increase accessibility and the Venezuela volume declined 18% driven amplification of the cocktail culture by locally produced brands as economic through sponsorship of The Best conditions continued to deteriorate.
In Paraguay net PEBAC Peru, Ecuador, Bolivia, Argentina sales increased double digit driven by and Chile delivered net sales growth of scotch, Tanqueray and Croc underpinned 15% driven by Argentina and Chile as well by domestic market growth.
as Ecuador where economic conditions In Mexico net sales increased 12%.
Growth was driven by scotch Growth was broad based but led by which gained share, and by increased Don Julio which gained 1.8pps of share distribution of Smirnoff.
of the tequila category with increasing Marketing investment increased by 4%, premiumisation from new innovations, driven by up weighted investment across Barricas and Reposado Claro.
Scotch was the scotch portfolio focused on Johnnie flat with growth in Black & White offset Walker and Black & White.
by declines in Buchanans whose performance was impacted by price increases.
Smirnoff returned to growth, with improved performance on Smirnoff 21 and the launch of Smirnoff X1.
In CCA Caribbean and Central America net sales declined 4%.
Hurricanes Irma and Maria impacted performance in the domestic markets where net sales declined 3%.
Export channels net sales declined 5% as market conditions remained challenging with continuing currency weakness against the US dollar.
36 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Business reviews: Asia Pacific Net sales by markets Net sales by categories Net sales by price points Asia Pacific % % % Our strategy in Asia Pacific, which encompasses both developed and emerging markets, is to operate across categories in international spirits, local spirits, i India North Asia Spirits Ready to drink Value Super premium ready to drink formats and beer.
Greater China Other Beer Other Standard Ultra premium Australia principally Premium Prestige We focus on the highest growth South East Asia Travel Retail categories and consumer i excluding RTDs opportunities, driving continued Acquisitions Organic Reported Key financials  of super and ultra i 2017 Exchange and disposals movement 2018 movement cation million million million million million % million premium scotch, and leveraging Net sales 2,419 64 11 51 210 2,503 3 the emerging middle class Marketing 343 5 50 388 13 Operating profit before opportunity.
exceptional items 487 1 8 1 89 568 17 Exceptional Our markets ii operating items 9 Asia Pacific comprises India, Greater China Operating profit 478 568 19 China, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau, i Reclassification comprises changes to a reallocation of the results of the Travel Retail operations to the Australia including New Zealand, South geographical regions.
East Asia Vietnam, Thailand, Philippines, ii For further details of exceptional operating items see pages 114 to 116.
Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar, Nepal and Sri Lanka, North Singapore, we have joint venture Sustainability and responsibility Asia Korea and Japan and Travel Retail Asia arrangements with Mot Hennessy, sharing Promoting road safety is a regional priority.
Diageo Our partnership with the United Nations operates wholly owned subsidiaries in the Institute for Training and Research gathers Supply operations Philippines and Vietnam.
In Vietnam we own experts, government officials, educators We have distilleries at Chengdu, in China a 45.57% equity stake in Hanoi Liquor Joint and business leaders to create change in that produce Chinese white spirit and in Stock Company.
In Indonesia, Guinness is the countries with the highest road traffic Bundaberg, Australia that produces rum.
brewed by, and distributed through third fatalities.
In 2018 the partnership held an United Spirits Limited USL operates party arrangements.
event in Thailand where we also run our 20 owned manufacturing units in India.
In Greater China our market presence is 'Smashed' educational programme, which In addition, USL and Diageo brands are established through our investment in raises awareness of the dangers of produced under licence by third parties.
Sichuan Shuijingfang Company Limited for underage drinking.
We also have bottling plants in Korea, Baiju, our wholly owned entity Diageo China Overall, lost time accident rates have Thailand, Indonesia and Australia with ready Limited, other subsidiaries and through a improved by 23% in the region.
Our focus to drink manufacturing capabilities.
joint venture arrangement with Mot on safety in USL is paying dividends, as well Hennessy.
Diageo operates a wholly owned as the continued improvement in more Route to consumer subsidiary in Taiwan.
established markets like Australia, which had In South East Asia, spirits and beer are sold In India, we manufacture, market and sell zero lost time accidents.
through a combination of Diageo companies, Indian whisky, rum, brandy and other spirits This year we carried out a Human Rights joint venture arrangements, and third party through our 54.78% shareholding in USL.
Impact Assessment across our value chain distributors.
In Thailand, Malaysia and Diageo also sells its own brands through USL.
Our 'Road to Safety' programme also In Australia, we manufacture, market and trained over 5,000 police officers and we sell the Diageo products and in New Zealand gathered 3.6 million pledges against drunk we operate through third party distributors.
We have provided safe drinking In North Asia, we have our own distribution water for 70,000 people through community water projects, and we continued to tackle company in South Korea, whilst in Japan, the majority of sales are through joint venture illicit alcohol and harmful drinking, while agreements with Mot Hennessy and Kirin.
Airport shops and airline operators are serviced through a dedicated Diageo sales and marketing organisation.
In the Middle East, we sell our products through third party distributors.
Strategic report Business reviews: Asia Pacific DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 37 Reported Organic Reported In Asia Pacific net sales grew by 9% with Organic volume volume net sales net sales strong growth in Greater China, India, and i movement movement movement movement Markets: % % % % Travel Retail Asia and Middle East.
This Asia Pacific 2 7 9 3 waspartially offset by the continued contraction of the scotch category in India 1 9 9 1 Korea.
Growth was broad based across Greater China 15 15 27 25 themajority of spirits categories.
Chinese Australia 2 2 4 white spirits continued to grow strong South East Asia 10 8 5 2 double digit.
Net sales in India grew by 9% North Asia 1 1 6 9 with strong second half growth as the Travel Retail Asia and Middle East 11 5 22 20 impact of the Supreme Court ruling prohibiting the sale of alcohol in certain Spirits 2 7 10 5 Beer 4 4 3 1 outlets near state highways was lapped.
Inscotch, net sales were up 4% as strong Ready to drink 5 5 4 6 performance of Johnnie Walker in Travel Organic Reported Retail Asia and Middle East, South East Organic volume net sales net sales iii movement movement movement Asia, and China Mainland was partially ii Global giants and local stars : % % % offset by the decline of Windsor in Korea.
Johnnie Walker 7 12 11 Net sales of reserve brands were up 29% McDowell's 8 3 driven by Chinese white spirits and Windsor 12 19 20 Johnnie Walker Super Deluxe in Travel Smirnoff 6 2 1 Retail Asia and Middle East and premium Guinness 5 4 scotch in South East Asia.
Operating Bundaberg 3 4 7 margin in the region improved by 181bps iv Shui Jing Fang 50 63 61 as savings from both indirect spend and i Difference between organic and reported volume for Asia Pacific is driven by the move to a organisational effectiveness programmes franchise model for some popular segment brands in India.
more than offset the up-weighted ii Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
iii Organic equals reported volume movement except for Johnnie Walker 5% and McDowells 9 % marketing investment.
due to the reallocation of the Travel Retail operations, the change from an owned to a franchise model for some popular segment brands in India and the disposal of a subsidiary in Nepal.
iv Organic growth figures represent total Chinese white spirits of which Shui Jing Fang is the Key highlights predominant brand.
In India net sales increased 9% reflecting The Singleton was more than offset by Travel Retail Asia and Middle East net a strong acceleration in the second half as declines in Taiwan where scotch net sales sales grew 22% with growth driven the business lapped the implementation declined by 15% as a result of commercial by scotch, particularly Johnnie Walker, of the Supreme Court ruling prohibiting challenges and category contraction.
as the Middle East lapped weak the sale of alcohol in certain outlets near performance in the prior year along with Net sales in Australia were flat.
Prestige and above net expanded distribution and improved in Guinness and Tanqueray, with the latter sales grew 12% driven by McDowells No.
gaining 1.1pps of share, was offset by 1 supported by the launch of its Never declines in Smirnoff and Bundaberg Marketing investment increased 15% Drink and Drive campaign, Royal in the ready to drink category.
driven by investment in China and India.
Challenge which leveraged a partnership with T20 cricket through Royal In South East Asia net sales increased Challengers Bangalore and celebrity 5% driven by double digit growth in Key endorsement of Signature.
Scotch net Accounts where Johnnie Walker was sales were up 11% supported by supported by continued focus on route up-weighted marketing investment.
to consumer and seasonal gifting.
Scotch Rum net sales were up 3% driven by the net sales grew 11% with growth in all national launch of Captain Morgan.
The markets except Vietnam and Thailand.
popular brand segment recovered in In North Asia net sales declined 6% as the second half following a focus on key scotch led growth in Japan driven by states and brands, resulting in full year Johnnie Walker was more than offset by net sales growth of 4%.
In Korea net In Greater China net sales increased 27% sales declined 11% driven by Windsor as driven by Chinese white spirits which the scotch category continued to grew strong double digit through contract as consumers switched to lower improved execution, expanded alcohol content alternatives.
This was distribution and increased marketing partially offset by growth in the W range investment.
Scotch net sales declined 5% by Windsor, in the lower ABV segment, as strong double digit growth in and Guinness, which both delivered mainland China in Johnnie Walker and double digit net sales gains.
