Business Review SEIZING OPPORTUNITIES IN A DIGITAL WORLD First impressions Dunelm is a great business which has grown sales in each year of its 39-year history by offering great choice and value for money.
Over time we have developed deep knowledge and an unrivalled range of homewares products, supported by committed suppliers.
The business is prudently financed, and highly cash generative.
Investment in appropriate systems and infrastructure provides a solid platform for growth, and the superstore portfolio combines good locations and attractive rent levels.
Our long-established business principles and committed colleagues help ensure a high level of customer satisfaction, which is still growing.
However, we need to continue to change if we are to continue to win.
The market is changing, with the increasing penetration of online retail.
At the same time, while some of our traditional competitors are retrenching, discounters continue to expand their physical store portfolios.
Our rate of market share gain has slowed.
We have made some inroads into the furniture market, but our proposition is not yet My conclusion is that I have joined an ourselves by being famous for product well developed.
The acquisition of excellent business which is experiencing style, value and quality in all market Worldstores in FY17 has accelerated some new challenges, both near term segments, and we are working hard to the development of our multichannel and medium term.
I am really excited become the best multichannel retailer capabilities, but the process of about helping Dunelm to navigate for homewares in terms of convenience integrating Worldstores into Dunelm these challenges as we aim to fulfil our and customer experience.
has been substantial and has reduced purpose of helping everyone create a our focus on some of our operating home they love.
com Stock code: DNLM 16 Strategic Report Total Revenue Growth % 9.9% 2017: 8.5% Homewares Market Share% 8.1% 2017: 8.0% transferred the worthwhile sales, which will allow us to launch Click & Worldstores we decided to cease trading the Collect and subsequent developments The acquisition of Worldstores was a Worldstores websites as separate such as improved delivery options major event in Dunelms development entities and they were fully withdrawn with much greater agility than has been and trading and integrating the by early September 2018.
We also possible whilst working with a thirdacquired businesses has been a massive sold the Achica brand which did not party technology partner.
We are on focus for the management team.
fit with Dunelms business model and, track to introduce the new platform Although Worldstores was acquired having tested the Kiddicare brand, we during Q3 of our financial year.
Linked from administration for a nominal concluded that we can more profitably to the above, we now have not only sum, our estimate of the total cash extend our presence in the childrens better technology assets but also a outlay we will incur, including goodwill market using the Dunelm brand.
We much more advanced capability within payments to suppliers, integration therefore closed the Kiddicare business the organisation, with a significant costs and trading losses amounts to in July 2018. increase in the number of digital approximately 30m net of tax relief.
developers and a digital development The main benefit from the acquisition centre in London.
The business model of Worldstores is the access to technology and itself was not sustainable and at the digital development capabilities, With the integration behind us, it is time of acquisition it was incurring which are an important ingredient to clear that Worldstores has created a losses of over 20m per year.
We new level of energy and focus in the the infrastructure that is essential to have transferred significant numbers our success in a multichannel world.
This of profitable lines approximately will play a key role in driving Dunelms Importantly, we see the technology 15,000 to date from Worldstores platform acquired with Worldstores growth for the foreseeable future.
and Kiddicare to our own website, as a real asset.
We are well advanced strengthening the Dunelm.
com offer in a major programme to move the and contributing to growth.
com website onto this platform I see plenty of opportunity for us to drive growth as the leading multichannel specialist, helping more customers to create a home they love...
This is a new and exciting chapter for Dunelm as we fully embrace digital retailing.
DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 17 Business Review continued been positive and continues to give By listening to our customers and Immediate challenges good payback on investment.
Refit serving them better we have a and opportunities investments have shown a mixed significant opportunity to sell more.
We have seen profits fall in our last two return.
I continue to believe in the Shopping frequency and average financial years and we have identified opportunity for rolling out new stores, basket size have considerable a number of issues and opportunities and for targeted refits, although I will headroom for growth as we develop to improve performance of the core ensure that we are highly selective our customer proposition.
with these investments going forward.
participate in certain key homewares I anticipate that the rate of new store customer segments, such as confident We need to evolve to a marketopenings will be lower, approximately nest builders and necessity buyers, leading multichannel offer.
The actions three to five per year, as we move and have the potential to grow described above to capitalise on the towards our target of 200 stores for substantially within these groups.
assets acquired with Worldstores are full national coverage: and that our Furthermore, awareness of the Dunelm the critical next phase on this journey.
investment in refits will settle at 5-10m brand is approximately 80%, which We also have a clear opportunity per year over the medium term.
remains low for a market leader.
to improve our customer offer via In the coming years our customer renewed focus on our value for Evolution of strategy proposition will evolve significantly.
We will reinvigorate The core of Dunelms business strategy Product choice will be extended our programme of special buys in the is sound, but needs to adapt to reflect considerably, in both current and coming months and ensure these fully the issues described above and adjacent categories, as we help our are prominently displayed in stores the challenges of a multichannel customers by sourcing great products.
Our stores will become more service We have grown our furniture Our customer purpose is to help and experience orientated, supported business over recent years such that everyone create a home they love.
by market-leading services which furniture excluding Worldstores We intend to reflect this in the way offer inspiration and advice to help now represents approximately 5% of we think about the business, the way customers create a home they love.
Dunelm sales, but the proposition is we organise, and the way we express At the same time, we will work hard to still at an early stage of development.
improve the value we offer customers, I am excited by the opportunity to and to make it even easier for them to develop our furniture offer further Customer first shop with us.
The leading multichannel In addition to our four existing business specialist Partly as a result of management goals which help us shape and prioritise change and partly due to the We are now organising ourselves in our activities to support growth, we distraction of the Worldstores line with a clear Customer First mindhave now added a fifth, reflecting acquisition and integration activity, set.
In this retail environment, we must the opportunity to grow customer some of our basic retail disciplines be agile and able to work at pace in an awareness and improve our capabilities have slipped, for example in the areas ever-evolving competitive landscape.
with regards to customer acquisition.
of margin management and stock loss.
Our combined store and online I am determined that we will regain our business enables us to offer a leading grip in these areas.
multichannel customer proposition which neither the discounters nor the We have invested heavily in our pure-play operators can match.
store portfolio over recent years.
With a small number of exceptions, the performance of new stores has corporate.
com Stock code: DNLM 18 Strategic Report new CRM system, and generating this by reinvigorating our approach Reaching more customers 1 interaction through #mydunelm and to special buys and trading to bring a with our brand user-generated content and imagery.
wide variety of styles and great value We have increased the number of We will further step up our product PR products to our customers.
unique customers shopping in our activity and influencer programmes to In the last year, we have continued to stores by 5% and online by 18% during gain critical mass.
grow our sales of seasonal products the last year.
Continuing to grow our We are excited about the potential across key winter and summer trading customer base is now a key focus.
for medium term growth across all periods on top of strong growth Historically customers have found our channels which will come from in FY17.
We believe there is more Dunelm as we have opened new stores this heightened focus on customer potential for growth here and are near their homes.
In recent years, with acquisition.
planning further improvements in the growth of online performance seasonal ranging over the next year.
marketing, we have also attracted new Create new reasons 2 customers directly to our website, Easy and inspiring for customers to shop 3 which in turn supports our store sales.
multichannel shopping with Dunelm In the current financial year, we are for our customers We must continually improve our launching a new integrated brand proposition by offering the best Our customers tell us that shopping building campaign which will begin product choice, quality, value and convenience is high on their priority in September 2018, comprising style to our customers.
In addition, customers seek help, TV sponsorship and advertising, broaden our product appeal to suit advice and inspiration to help create a supported by PR, social media activity, all customer tastes, and reinforce our home they love.
email communications and instore product advantage compared to our Our 169 superstores provide a fantastic activities.
We will test and learn from competitors.
Driving broader category opportunity for us to showcase our this approach, and will endeavour to awareness will help us drive visit product ranges and inspire customers have an always on flow of customer frequency and basket size.
As we expand our store communications to ensure the Dunelm During the last year we have had estate to around 200 stores, we will brand is front of mind amongst some notable successes in improving bring this opportunity within reach of our target customer segments.
Our our product ranges in areas such as even more customers, enabling them investment in this campaign over the lighting and rugs where sales grew to access our great ranges and take coming financial year will be partly significantly both online and in stores.
funded by redirecting existing brand spend.
We will measure success in We have recently launched online a Our website provides a different type terms of customer acquisition and new Made to Measure blinds offer, of convenience for customers shopping visit numbers.
which will be followed in due course at home or on the go.
We are working by Made to Measure curtains, which hard to create a seamless multichannel We plan to accelerate investment in we expect to appeal to customers proposition, and are aiming to be online performance marketing on seeking convenience.
In furniture, we the leading multichannel brand in Dunelm.
com in line with our growth are building differentiation into our homewares for customer experience.
offer to improve the ranges available In reality, we are still in catch-up mode We will also continue to develop the for customers and drive consideration for online capability, and we know our use of our own content via our own in areas such as mattresses with new customers will appreciate the Click & website, emails to customers, and Dorma and Fogarty branded products.
Collect service which we will introduce on social media channels where we in tandem with our new web platform We want our customers to see new are targeting increased followers early in 2019, as well as improved products each time they visit our and likes.
We are learning how best payment and delivery options.
We will achieve to leverage the capabilities of our Read more on our Strategy on pages and 12 13 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 19 Business Review CONTINUED We know that our stores are an integral part of our future success in a multichannel world, and delivering an inspirational and easy to shop store remains important.
We have rolled out tablet-based selling in-store during the last 12 months, providing customers with the opportunity to access the full Dunelm range from every store.
We have introduced customer hosts in our stores who will support customers shopping needs, offering friendly advice and expertise, and helping them navigate the wide variety of ranges available to them.
Last year we continued to evolve our format in stores by completing six major refits, as well as a number of smaller modular refits around furniture, lighting and Made to Measure.
We will continue to trial and develop new concepts in stores and currently plan to complete a small number of further major refits in the next financial year.
Simple and low cost 4 good housekeepers Our low-cost operating model and dedication to keeping things simple has historically been a source of significant cost advantage.
However, cost growth has exceeded sales growth for a number of years now as we have addressed the changing retail market and transitioned to our multichannel model.
Our approach going forward is to drive efficiency by leaving behind the Over the last year we have made Worldstores and Kiddicare brands, conscious decisions to invest in and leveraging a single brand, web areas such as digital marketing and platform and integrated supply chain.
technology, and these investments As our channel mix shifts, we will attack will continue.
We have partially offset costs and work to keep all our channel these investments through productivity operations low cost and efficient.
initiatives, both in stores and in our We calculate that the marginal supply chain operations, including contribution from 1-man home delivery elimination of some of the Worldstores sales is currently around 15% below operating costs.
However, we have also in-store sales.
suffered increased operating costs due to weaker grip on basics such as stock loss, sourcing and procurement.
We are now refocused on improving controls in these areas.
com Stock code: DNLM 20 Strategic Report We continually listen to our customers Summary A great place to work 5 and colleagues using our always-on In the near term, we have a number for colleagues feedback and engagement tools.
of self-help opportunities to improve Making Dunelm an even better place Significant actions taken in response to profitability and cash generation after to work for all our colleagues is a feedback from our colleagues include a difficult and disappointing FY18.
I continual focus for our leadership team restructuring our Technology teams am determined that we grasp these and something that we are passionate to become more agile and product opportunities quickly so as to return to about.
We know that highly engaged focused, and combining our Buying profit growth.
colleagues provide better service to and Merchandising functions into an our customers.
Over the medium term I see plenty of opportunity for us to drive growth as Our business principles are really Colleagues value our commitment the leading multichannel specialist, important to us, and as we embrace a to activities which have a benefit for helping more customers to create digital future, we are working hard to the environment.
During the year, a home they love.
This is a new and retain the culture which has enabled us we reduced CO emissions by 7.4%, 2 exciting chapter for Dunelm as we fully to get to where we are.
supported by the completion of 25 embrace digital retailing.
LED refits in the year, taking the total We are encouraged by the progress number of our sites with LED lighting The UK retail environment remains made this year in creating better, challenging, but against this difficult up to 164 out of 184.
Our focus on more rewarding jobs for colleagues recycling and landfill diversion has background we have traded in line in stores and in support functions.
We with expectations during the current enabled us to reduce our costs of have again promoted more colleagues waste management year-on-year, financial year to date.
to management level roles, and we generate significant revenues from continue our efforts to identify and recycling, and improve our landfill develop talent to enable individuals to Nick Wilkinson diversion by three percentage points reach their full potential.
12 September 2018 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 21
