pp01-21 Strategy 01 06 2018 11:57 Page 12 Strategy Strategic Report Business Review Strategy and Business Model The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc is an securities is monitored carefully by the investment company and its investment Board, the portfolio is not primarily objective is set out below.
The strategy structured on the basis of industry the Board follows to achieve that objective weightings.
No acquisition may be made is to set investment policy and risk which would result in a holding being guidelines, together with investment limits, greater than 10% of the market value of and to monitor how they are applied.
These are also set out below and have Similarly, the Company may not hold more been approved by shareholders.
than 5% of the issued share capital or voting shares in any one company.
The business model the Company has Investment in convertibles is subject to adopted to achieve its investment normal security limits.
Should these or any objective has been to contract the services other limit be exceeded by subsequent of Invesco Fund Managers Limited the market movement, each resulting position Manager to manage the portfolio in is specifically reviewed by the Board.
accordance with the Boards strategy and under its oversight.
The portfolio manager The Company may borrow money to with individual responsibility for the provide gearing to the equity portfolio of day-to-day management of the portfolio is up to 25% of net assets.
Mark Barnett and the deputy portfolio manager is James Goldstone.
Use of derivative instruments is monitored carefully by the Board and In addition, the Company has contractual permitted within the following constraints: arrangements with Link Asset Services the writing of covered calls against formerly known as Capita Asset Services securities which in aggregate amount to to act as registrar and the Bank of New no more than 10% of the value of the York Mellon International Limited portfolio and the investment in FTSE 100 BNYMIL as depositary and custodian.
futures which when exercised would BNYMIL became the depositary following equate to no more than 15% of the value novation of the depositary agreement of the portfolio.
Other derivative from BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK instruments may be employed, subject to Limited, on 1 December 2017.
This prior Board approval, provided that the transfer has had no substantive effect on cost and potential liability of exercise of the services received by the Company.
all outstanding derivative positions at any time should not exceed 25% of the value Investment Objective and Policy of the portfolio at that time.
The Investment Objective Company may hedge exposure to The Company invests primarily in UK changes in foreign currency rates in securities with the long term objective of respect of its overseas investments.
achieving: Results and Dividends 1. an increase of the Net Asset Value per At the year end the share price was share in excess of the growth in the 642.0p per ordinary share 2017: FTSE All-Share Index: and 713.5p.
The net asset value debt at 2. growth in dividends per share in market value per ordinary share was excess of the rate of UK inflation.
Investment Policy Subject to approval at the AGM, the final The Company will generally invest in proposed dividend for the year ended companies quoted on a recognised stock 31 March 2018 of 9.2p 2017: 9.15p exchange in the UK.
The Company may per ordinary share will be payable on also invest up to 20% of the market value 24 July 2018 to shareholders on the of the Companys investment portfolio, register on 22 June 2018.
The shares measured at the time of any acquisition, in will be quoted ex-dividend on 21 June securities listed on stock exchanges 2018.
This will give total dividends for outside the UK.
The portfolio is selected the year of 26.6p per share, an increase by the Manager on the basis of its of 4.9% on the previous years dividends assessment of the fundamental value of 25.35p.
The revenue return per share available in individual securities.
Whilst the for the year was 29.3p, a 5.0% increase Companys overall exposure to individual on the 2017 return of 27.9p.
12 pp01-21 Strategy 01 06 2018 11:57 Page 13 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Performance Financial Position and Borrowings The Board reviews the Companys The Companys balance sheet on page 51 performance by reference to a number of shows the assets and liabilities at the year key performance indicators KPIs which end.
Borrowings at the year end 3 4 are shown on page 4.
Notwithstanding comprised the 100 million 7 % that some KPIs are beyond its control, debenture which matures in 2022 and they are measures of the Companys 43.9 million 2017: 109.7 million absolute and relative performance.
The drawn down on the Companys KPIs assist in managing performance and 150 million bank revolving credit facility.
compliance and are reviewed by the Details of this facility are contained in Board at each meeting.
The Chairmans Statement on pages 6 The Company also has a bank overdraft to 8 gives a commentary on the facility of up to 10% of assets held by the performance of the Company during the custodian, which is available to facilitate year, the gearing and the dividend.
settlement of short-term cash timing differences.
As at 31 March 2018, Expenses are reviewed at each Board this was not drawn down 2017: nil.
meeting enabling the Board, amongst other things, to review costs and consider Outlook, including the Future of the any expenditure outside that of its normal Company operations.
For the year being reported, The main trends and factors likely to all KPIs are considered satisfactory.
affect the future development, performance and position of the The Board also regularly reviews the Companys business can be found in the performance of the Company in relation Portfolio Managers Report.
Details of the to the 24 investment trusts in the UK principal risks affecting the Company Equity Income sector.
rd 2018, the Company was ranked 23 by NAV performance in this sector over th th one year and 20 over three and 8 over five years source: JPMorgan Cazenove.
Analysis of Performance Analysis of Performance analyses the performance of the Company relative to its benchmark index.
for yearended Relative performance represents the 31 March 2018 arithmetic difference between the NAV % and the benchmark.
Total Return Basis Net gearing effect measures the impact of the debenture stock, bank NAV debt at market value 5.9 loan and cash on the Companys relative Benchmark 1.2 performance.
This will be positive if the portfolio has positive performance.
Relative underperformance 7.1 Interest arising from the debenture Analysis of Relative Performance stock and bank loan interest paid has a negative impact on performance.
Portfolio total return 3.2 Less Benchmark total return 1.2 Management fee the base fee reduces the Companys net assets and decreases Portfolio underperformance 4.4 performance.
Borrowings: Net gearing effect 1.7 Other expenses and tax reduce the level of assets and therefore result in Interest 0.6 a negative effect on relative performance.
Market value movement 0.3 Management fee 0.5 Other expenses 0.1 Tax 0.1 Total 7.1 13 pp01-21 Strategy 01 06 2018 11:57 Page 14 Strategy Strategic Report Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties earnings and, in due course, dividends The Companys key long-term investment and share prices.
Strategy, asset objectives are an increase in the net asset allocation and stock selection decisions value per share in excess of the growth in by the Manager can lead to the FTSE All-Share Index the underperformance of the benchmark benchmark and an increase in dividends and or income targets.
The Managers in excess of the growth in RPI.
The style may result in a concentrated principal risks and uncertainties facing the portfolio with significant overweight or Company are an integral consideration underweight positions in individual stocks when assessing the operations in place to or sectors compared to the index and meet these objectives, including the consequently the Companys performance performance of the portfolio, share price may deviate significantly, possibly for and dividends.
The Board is ultimately extended periods, from that of the responsible for the risk control systems benchmark.
In a similar way, the Manager but the day-to-day operation and manages other portfolios holding many of monitoring is delegated to the Manager.
the same stocks as the Company which The Board has carried out a robust reflects the Managers high conviction assessment of the principal risks facing style of investment management.
This the Company, including those that would could significantly increase the liquidity threaten its business model, future and price risk of certain stocks under performance, solvency or liquidity and the certain scenarios and market conditions.
following sets out a description of those However, the Board and Manager believe risks and how they are being managed or that the investment process and policy mitigated.
outlined above should, over the long term, meet the Companys objectives of Market Risk capital growth in excess of the benchmark A great majority of the Companys and real dividend growth.
investments are traded on recognised stock exchanges.
The principal risk for Investment selection is delegated to the investors in the Company is a significant Manager.
The Board does not specify fall, and or a prolonged period of decline asset allocations.
Information on the Companys performance against the in those markets.
The Companys investments, and the income derived from benchmark and peer group is provided to them, are influenced by many factors the Board at each Board meeting.
The such as general economic conditions, Board uses this to review the performance interest rates, inflation, political events, of the Company, taking into account how and government policies as well as by performance relates to the Companys supply and demand reflecting investor objectives.
The Manager is responsible for sentiment.
Such factors are outside the monitoring the portfolio selected and control of the Board and Manager and seeks to ensure that individual stocks may give rise to high levels of volatility meet an acceptable risk-reward profile.
in the prices of investments held by the Company.
The asset value and price of As shown in the investment policy, the Companys shares and its earnings derivatives may be used provided that the and dividends may consequently also market exposure arising is less than 25% experience volatility and may decline.
of the value of the portfolio.
During the year, no forward currency contracts or Investment Performance Risk derivatives were used for hedging or The Board sets performance objectives market exposure respectively.
and delegates the investment management process to the Manager.
Gearing and Borrowing Risk The achievement of the Companys The Company may borrow to provide performance objectives relative to the gearing to the equity portfolio of up to market requires active management of 25% of net assets.
Borrowing is a mix of the portfolio of assets and securities.
The the Companys 100 million debenture Managers approach is to construct stock and the Companys 150 million a portfolio which should benefit from facility.
Details of all borrowings are given expected future trends in the UK and in Notes 11 and 12.
The principal gearing global economies.
The Manager is a long risk is that the level of gearing may have term investor, prepared to take an adverse impact on performance.
substantial positions in securities and Secondary risks include whether the cost sectors which may well be out of fashion, of borrowing is too high and whether the but which the Manager believes will have facility can be renewed on terms potential for material increases in acceptable to the Company.
14 pp01-21 Strategy 01 06 2018 11:57 Page 15 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc The Manager has full discretion over the on the soundness and efficiency of the amount of the borrowing it uses to gear custodian for good title and timeliness of its portfolio, whilst the issuance, receipt and delivery of securities.
repurchase, or restructuring of borrowing are for the Board to decide.
Information A risk-based programme of internal audits related to borrowing and gearing is is carried out by the Manager regularly to provided to the Directors as part of the test the controls environment.
Additionally, the Board controls report providing an assessment keeps under review the cost of buying of these risks and operation of the back the debt.
controls is prepared by the Manager and considered by the Audit Committee, and Income Dividend Risk is formally reported to and considered by The Company is subject to the risk that the Board.
income generation from its investments fails to reach the level of income required Reliance on the Manager and other to meet its objectives.
Third Party Providers The Company has no employees and the The Board monitors this risk through the Directors are all appointed on a review of detailed income forecasts and non-executive basis.
The Company is reliant comparison against budget.
These are upon the performance of third party contained within the Board papers.
The providers for its executive function and Board considers the level of income at other service provisions.
most significant contract is with the Manager, to whom responsibility both for Share Price Risk the Companys portfolio and for the There is a risk that the Companys provision of company secretarial and prospects and NAV may not be fully administrative services is delegated.
The reflected in the share price from Company has other contractual time-to-time.
arrangements with third parties to act as auditor, registrar, depositary and broker.
The share price is monitored on a daily Failure by any service provider to carry out basis.
The Board is empowered to its obligations to the Company in repurchase shares within agreed accordance with the terms of its parameters.
The discount at which the appointment could have a materially shares trade to NAV can be influenced by detrimental impact on the operation of the share repurchases.
The Company has not Company and could affect the ability of the repurchased any shares in the year.
Company to pursue successfully its investment policy and expose the Company Control Systems Risk to risk of loss or to reputational risk.
The Board delegates a number of specific risk control activities to the Manager In particular, the Manager performs including: services which are integral to the operation of the Company.
The Manager - good practice industry standards in may be exposed to the risk that litigation, misconduct, operational failures, negative fund management operations: - financial controls: publicity and press speculation, whether - meeting regulatory requirements: or not it is valid, will harm its reputation.
- the management of the relationship Any damage to the reputation of the with the depositary: Manager could result in counterparties - via the depositary, the management and third parties being unwilling to deal of the custody and security of the with the Manager and by extension the Companys assets: and Company.
This could have an adverse - the management of the relationship impact on the ability of the Company to with the registrar.
Consequently in respect of these activities The Board seeks to manage these risks in a number of ways: the Company is dependent on the Managers control systems and those of its depositary and registrar, both of which - The Manager monitors the are monitored by the Manager in the performance of all third party context of safeguarding the Companys providers in relation to agreed service assets and interests.
There is a risk that standards on a regular basis, and any the Manager fails to ensure that these issues and concerns are dealt with controls are operated in a satisfactory promptly and reported to the Board.
In addition, the Company relies The Manager formally reviews the 15 pp01-21 Strategy 01 06 2018 11:57 Page 16 Strategy Strategic Report Business Review performance of all third party imposed by the UK Listing Authority on all providers and reports to the Board on companies whose shares are listed on the an annual basis.
A breach of the conditions for approval as an investment trust could lead - The Board reviews the performance of to the Company being subject to capital the Manager at every Board meeting gains tax on the sale of the investments in and otherwise as appropriate.
A serious breach Board has the power to replace the of other regulatory rules may lead to Manager and reviews the suspension from listing on the Stock management contract formally once Exchange.
The Manager is regulated by the Financial - The day-to-day management of the Conduct Authority and failure to comply portfolio is the responsibility of the with the relevant regulations could harm named portfolio manager, Mark the Managers reputation with a potential Barnett, Head of UK Equities at detrimental effect on the Company.
He has worked in equity markets since 1992 and has been The Manager reviews compliance with part of the UK equities team at investment trust tax conditions and other Invesco for over 20 years.
financial and regulatory requirements on a daily basis.
All transactions, income and - The risk that the portfolio manager expenditure are reported to the Board.
might be incapacitated or otherwise The Board regularly considers all risks, the unavailable is mitigated by the fact that measures in place to control them and the he works within, and is supported by, possibility of any other risks that could the wider Invesco UK Equity team.
The Board ensures that satisfactory Moreover James Goldstone, as deputy assurances are received from the service portfolio manager, would be able to providers.
The Managers compliance and manage the portfolio if Mark Barnett internal audit officers produce regular was unable to for any reason.
reports for review by the Companys Audit Committee.
- The Board has set guidelines within which the portfolio manager is Additionally, the depositary monitors permitted wide discretion.
Any stock, cash, borrowings and investment proposed variation outside these restrictions throughout the year.
The guidelines is referred to the Board and depositary reports formally once a year compliance with the guidelines and and also has access to the Company the guidelines themselves are Chairman and the Audit Committee reviewed at every Board meeting.
Chairman if needed during the year.
Other Risks There is an ongoing process for the Board The Company may be exposed to other to consider these other risks.
In addition, business, strategic and political risks in the composition of the Board is regularly the future, as well as regulatory risks reviewed to ensure the membership offers sufficient knowledge and experience to such as an adverse change in the tax treatment of investment companies, and assess, anticipate and mitigate these the perceived impact of the Manager risks, as far as possible.
ceasing to be involved with the Company.
Viability Statement The instruments in which the Companys The Company is a collective investment cash positions are invested are reviewed vehicle rather than a commercial business by the Board to ensure credit, liquidity and venture and is designed and managed for concentration risks are adequately long term investment.
Where an Invesco Group vehicle investment objective clearly sets this out.
is utilised, it is assessed for suitability Long term for this purpose is considered against other similar investment options.
by the Directors to be at least five years and accordingly they have assessed the The Company is subject to laws and Companys viability over that period.
regulations by virtue of its status as an However, the life of the Company is not investment trust and is required to comply intended to be limited to that or any other with certain regulatory requirements that period.
are applicable to listed closed-ended investment companies.
The Company is In assessing the viability of the subject to the continuing obligations Company, the Directors considered the 16 pp01-21 Strategy 01 06 2018 11:57 Page 17 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc principal risks to which it is exposed, as Social and Environmental Matters set out on pages 14 to 16, together with As an investment company with no mitigating factors.
The risks of failure to employees, property or activities outside meet the Companys investment investment, environmental policy has objective, and contributory market and limited application.
The Manager investment risks, were considered to be considers various factors when evaluating of particular importance.
While a companys also took into account: the investment policy towards the environment and social capabilities of the portfolio manager: the responsibility, including with regard to business model of the Company, which human rights, is considered as part of the has effectively been stress tested for overall assessment of risk and suitability many years through different and for the portfolio, the Manager does not difficult market cycles: the liquidity of necessarily decide to, or not to, make an the portfolio, with nearly all investments investment on environmental and social being listed and readily realisable: the grounds alone.
The Manager applies the Companys borrowings both long and United Nations Principles for Responsible short term and the ability of the Investment.
Company to meet its liabilities as they fall due: and the Companys annual The Company is an investment vehicle operating costs.
and does not provide goods or services in the normal course of its business, or have Based on the above, and assuming there customers.
Accordingly, the Directors is no significant adverse change to the consider that the Company is not required regulatory environment and tax treatment to make any slavery or human trafficking of UK investment trusts, the Directors statement under the Modern Slavery have a reasonable expectation that the Act 2015.
Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five year period of assessment.
Board Diversity The Board considers diversity, including the balance of skills, knowledge, diversity including gender and experience, amongst other factors when reviewing its composition and appointing new directors, but does not consider it appropriate to establish targets or quotas in this regard.
As a norm the Board comprises either five or six non-executive directors of which, at present, one is female.
Summary biographical details of the Directors are set out on page 24.
The Company has no employees.
This Strategic Report was approved by the Board on 31 May 2018 Invesco Asset Management Limited Company Secretary 17
