Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 10 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2018 Strategic Report Business Review The Strategic Report, set out on pages 2 to 18, contains a The Companys gearing policy is that gearing will not review of the Companys policies and business model, exceed 25% of the Companys net assets.
together with an analysis of its performance during the The Company has the ability to invest up to 25% of its financial year and its future developments.
It also details the gross assets in preference shares, bonds and other debt principal risks and challenges that the Company faces.
Its instruments, although no more than 10% of any one purpose is to inform the shareholders of the Company and issue may be held.
help them to assess how the Directors have performed their In addition, a maximum of 10% of the Companys gross duty to promote the success of the Company.
assets can be held in cash, where the Portfolio Manager believes market or economic conditions make equity Investment Objective investment unattractive or while seeking appropriate The Companys investment objective is to achieve capital and investment opportunities or to maintain liquidity.
income growth and to provide shareholders with a total return No investment will be made in any company or fund in excess of that of the FTSE All-Share Index.
managed by the Portfolio Manager without the prior approval of the Board.
Investment Policies In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct No changes have been made to the Companys investment Authority FCA, the Company can only make a material policies: change to its investment policies with the approval of its The Companys investment policy is to invest principally in shareholders.
the securities of UK listed companies, whilst up to a maximum of 20% of the Companys portfolio, at the time Investment Performance of acquisition, can be invested in quoted companies The Portfolio Manager uses a bottom-up stock picking outside the UK.
approach and looks to invest in a universe of excellent listed The portfolio will normally comprise up to 30 businesses that appear undervalued.
This level of concentration may lead to an Whilst performance is measured against the FTSE All-Share investment return which is materially different from the Index, the Companys portfolio is constructed and managed Companys benchmark index and may be considered to without reference to a stock market index.
Unless driven by market The Board believes that the Companys performance over the movements, securities in FTSE 100 companies and last ten years net asset total return of 401.4% compared to a comparable companies listed on an overseas stock total return from the Companys benchmark index of 138.5% exchange will normally represent between 50% and demonstrates that it is possible to achieve strong performance 100% of the portfolio: securities in FTSE 350 companies through investing principally in UK equities without buying and and comparable companies listed on overseas stock selling portfolio securities on a short term basis.
exchanges will normally represent at least 70% of the portfolio.
The Company does not and will not invest more than 15%, inaggregate, of the value of its gross assets in other closed ended investment companies including investment trusts listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Further, the Company does not and will not invest more than 10%, in aggregate, of the value of its gross assets in other closed ended investment companies including investment trusts listed on the London Stock Exchange, except where the investment companies themselves have stated investment policies to invest no more than 15% of their gross assets in other closed ended investment companies including investment trusts listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 11 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2018 Strategic Report Business Review Dividend Policy Portfolio.
The decision as to the level of dividend paid takes into account the income forecasts maintained by the The Companys aim is to increase or at least to maintain the Companys AIFM and Portfolio Manager which are reviewed total dividend each year.
A first interim dividend is typically regularly by the Board.
These forecasts consider dividends paid in May and a second interim in November in lieu of a final earned from the portfolio together with predicted future dividend.
The level of dividend growth is dependent upon the growth All dividends are distributed from revenue reserves.
and performance of the companies within the Investment Ten Year Dividend Record 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 First Interim Dividend Second Interim Source: Frostrow Capital LLP Pence per share FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 12 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2018 Strategic Report Business Review Business Model investment portfolio administration and valuation: The Company is an externally managed investment trust and risk management services: its Shares are premium listed on the official list and traded on share price discount and premium management: the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
administrative and company secretarial services: The Company is an Alternative Investment Fund AIF under the European Unions Alternative Investment Fund Managers advice and guidance in respect of corporate governance Directive AIFMD and has appointed Frostrow Capital LLP requirements: Frostrow as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager maintenance of the Companys accounting records: AIFM.
maintenance of the Companys website: As an externally managed investment trust the Company has no executive directors, employees or internal operations.
The preparation and publication of annual and half year Company delegates its day-to-day management to third reports and monthly fact sheets: and parties.
The principal service providers to the Company are ensuring compliance with applicable legal and Frostrow which acts as AIFM, company secretary and regulatory requirements.
administrator: and Lindsell Train Limited Lindsell Train which acts as Portfolio Manager.
BNYMellon Trust & Fees Depositary UK Limited is the Companys Depositary.
During the year to 30 September 2018 under the terms of the AIFM Agreement Frostrow received an annual fee of 0.15% of The Board is responsible for all aspects of the Companys the Companys adjusted market capitalisation up to a value of affairs, including the setting of parameters for and the 1 billion, such fee reducing to 0.135% per annum of the monitoring of the investment strategy and the review of amount of the Companys adjusted market capitalisation in investment performance and policy.
It also has responsibility excess of 1 billion.
for all strategic issues, the dividend policy, the share issuance and buy-back policy, gearing, share price and The AIFM Agreement may be terminated by either party on discount premium monitoring and corporate governance giving notice of not less than 12 months.
Portfolio Manager The Board Under the AIFM Agreement Lindsell Train, as delegate of the Details of the Board of Directors of the Company are set out AIFM, is responsible for the management of the Companys on page 19. portfolio of investments under an agreement between it, the All Directors will seek re-election by Shareholders at the next Company and Frostrow the Portfolio Management Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the Board and Audit Committees Under the terms of its Portfolio Management Agreement, Composition and Succession Plan the Boards aim is to have a Lindsell Train provides, inter alia, the following services: broad range of approaches, backgrounds, skills and experience seeking out and evaluating investment opportunities: represented on the Board and to make appointments on merit recommending the manner by which monies should be against objective criteria, including diversity.
The Board invested, disinvested, retained or realised: currently comprises four men and two women.
advising on how rights conferred by the investments Management Arrangements should be exercised: Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM analysing the performance of investments made: and Frostrow under the terms of its AIFM agreement with the advising the Company in relation to trends, market Company provides, inter alia, the following services: movements and other matters which may affect the oversight of the portfolio management function investment objective and policy of the Company.
delegated to Lindsell Train: promotion of the Company: Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 13 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2018 Strategic Report Business Review Fees The Depositary provides the following services: During the year to 30 September 2018 under the terms of the responsibility for the safe keeping of custodial assets of Portfolio Management Agreement Lindsell Train received an the Company: annual fee of 0.45% of the Companys adjusted market verification and maintenance of a record of all other capitalisation up to a value of 1 billion, such fee reducing to assets of the Company and for the collection of income 0.405% per annum of the amount of the Companys adjusted that arises from those assets: market capitalisation in excess of 1 billion.
taking reasonable care to ensure that the Company is The Portfolio Management Agreement may be terminated by managed in accordance with the AIFMD, the FUND either party giving notice of not less than 12 months.
Sourcebook and the Companys instrument of incorporation, in relation to the calculation of the net asset value per share and the application of income of AIFM and Portfolio Manager Evaluation and the Company: and Re-Appointment monitoring the Companys compliance with investment The performance of Frostrow as AIFM and Lindsell Train as restrictions and leverage limits set in its offering Portfolio Manager is continuously monitored by the Board documents.
with a formal evaluation being undertaken each year.
As part of this process the Board monitors the services provided by In accordance with the AIFM Rules the Depositary act as the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager and receives regular global custodian and may delegate safekeeping to one or reports and views from them.
The Board also receives more global sub-custodians.
The Depositary has delegated comprehensive performance measurement reports to enable safekeeping of the assets of the Company to The Bank of New it to determine whether or not the performance objective set York Mellon SA NV and or The Bank of New York Mellon The by the Board has been met.
As at the date of this report, the applicable sub-custodians appointed by the Depositary who Following a review at a Board meeting in October 2018 the might be relevant for the purposes of holding the Companys Board believes that the continuing appointment of the AIFM investments are: and the Portfolio Manager, under the terms described on Name of pages12 and 13 as applicable, is in the best interests of the Country sub-custodian Regulator Companys shareholders.
In coming to this decision it took into The Netherlands The Bank of New York Financial Services consideration the following additional reasons: Mellon SA NV and Markets the quality and depth of experience of the management, Authority, Belgium company secretarial, administrative and marketing team United States The Bank of New US Securities that the AIFM brought to the management of the of America York, New York and Exchange Commission Company: and France BNP Paribas Banque fide France the quality and depth of experience allocated by the Securities Services, Portfolio Manager to the management of the portfolio, Paris the clarity and rigour of the investment process, the level The Global Sub-Custodians safekeeping fees are charged of past performance of the portfolio in absolute terms according to the jurisdiction in which the holdings are based.
and also by reference to the benchmark index.
With effect from 1October 2017, the majority of the Depositary Companys assets attracted a fee of 0.0033% of their market The Bank of New York Mellon International Limited the value, previously 0.008%.
Variable transaction fees were also Depositary acts as the Companys depositary in accordance chargeable.
with the AIFMD on the terms and subject to the conditions of The Depositary Agreement may be terminated by either party the depositary agreement between the Company, Frostrow on giving notice of not less than 90 days.
and the Depositary the Depositary Agreement.
Under the terms of the Depositary Agreement and with effect from 1October 2017 the Company pays the Depositary a flat fee of 0.009% on net assets, previously 0.0125% of gross assets.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 14 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2018 Strategic Report Business Review Company Promotion Long Term Viability Statement The aim of the Companys promotional activities is to In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the encourage demand for the Companys shares.
The Company Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company over a has appointed Frostrow to provide marketing services in the longer period than the 12 months required by the Going belief that a well-marketed investment company is more likely Concern provision.
to grow over time, have a more diverse, stable list of To provide this assessment the Audit Committee has shareholders and its shares will trade at close to NAV per share considered the Companys financial position and its ability to over the long run.
Frostrow actively promotes the Company in liquidate its portfolio and meet its liabilities as they fall due: the following ways: The portfolio comprises principally of investments Engaging regularly with institutional investors, traded on major international stock exchanges.
The discretionary wealth managers and a range of executioncurrent portfolio could be substantially liquidated only platforms: within seven trading days and there is no expectation Making Company information more accessible: that the nature of the investments held within the portfolio will be materially different in future: Disseminating key Company information: and The expenses of the Company are predictable and Monitoring market activity, acting as a link between the modest in comparison with the assets and there are no Company, shareholders and other stakeholders.
capital commitments foreseen which would alter that position: and Social, Economic and Environmental Matters The Company has no employees, only its The Directors, through the Portfolio Manager, encourage non-executive Directors.
Consequently it does not have companies in which investments are made to adhere to best redundancy or other employment related liabilities or practice with regard to corporate governance.
In light of the responsibilities.
nature of the Companys business there are no relevant human rights issues and the Company does not have a human rights The Audit Committee, as well as considering the principal risks policy.
on pages 16 to 18 and the financial position of the Company, has also considered the following assumptions in considering The Company recognises that social and environmental issues the Companys longer-term viability: can have an effect on some of its portfolio companies.
There will continue to be demand for investment trusts: The Company is an investment trust and so its own direct environmental impact is minimal.
The Board of Directors The Board and the Portfolio Manager will continue to consists of six Directors, all of whom are resident in the United adopt a long-term view when making investments, and Kingdom.
The Board holds its regular meetings in the United anticipated holding periods will be at least five years: Kingdom.
The Company invests principally in the securities of UK listed companies to which investors will wish to Modern Slavery Act 2015 continue to have exposure: The Company falls outside the scope of the Modern Slavery The Company will maintain its bank loan facility: Act 2015 as the Company has no employees.
The Companys Regulation will not increase to a level that makes suppliers are professional firms and they provide assurance running the Company uneconomical: and that they operate in accordance with this legislation.
Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 15 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2018 Strategic Report Business Review Share price total return The performance of the Company will continue to be satisfactory.
The Directors also regard the Companys share price total return to be a key indicator of performance.
Taking account of the anticipated investment holding periods, During the year under review the Companys share price total the expected extension of the Companys gearing facility and return was 13.2% 2017: 14.2%.
the liquidity and medium term prospects of the Companys investment portfolio, the Directors have formed a reasonable Benchmark and peer group performance expectation that the Company will be able to continue its The Companys benchmark is the FTSE All-Share Index total operations and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next return which delivered a return of 5.9% 2017: 11.9% over the five years.
This compares to the Companys share price total return of 13.2% 2017: 14.2%.
Future developments The Board also monitors the Companys net asset value return The Boards primary focus is on Lindsell Trains investment against its AIC peer group.
As at 30 September 2018 the approach and performance.
The subject is thoroughly Company ranked first out of 25 over three, five and ten years.
source: Morningstar discussed at every Board meeting.
see glossary In addition, the AIFM updates the Board on company Revenue return per share communications, promotions and investor feedback, as well as The Directors regard the Companys revenue return per share wider investment issues.
to be an important indicator of performance.
An outline of performance, investment activity and strategy, The revenue return per share for the year was 16.5p per share and market background during the year, as well as the outlook, 2017: 15.8p per share.
The Companys net revenue return is provided in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5 and during the year was up 4.4%.
the Portfolio Managers Review on pages 8 to 9.
Share price discount premium to net asset value per It is expected that the Companys strategy will remain share unchanged in the coming year.
The Board reviews the level of discount premium to net asset value per share at every Board meeting and consideration is Key Performance Indicators given to ways in which the share price performance may be At each meeting the Board considers a number of enhanced, including the effectiveness of marketing and share performance measures to assess the Companys success in issuance and buy-backs, where appropriate.
Details of how the achieving its investment objective.
The Key Performance Companys discount control mechanism works can be found Indicators KPI, also referred to as Alternative Performance on the Companys website www.
Measures are as follows: net asset value total return: share Demand for the Companys shares led to the issue of a total of price total return: benchmark and peer group performance: 14,795,000 new shares during the year at a premium to the revenue return per share and share price discount premium prevailing cum or ex income net asset value per share at the to net asset value per share.
No shares were repurchased by the Company Net asset value total return during the year.
At 30 September 2018 the Companys share The Directors regard the Companys net asset value total price stood at a 0.6% premium to the Companys net asset return to be a key indicator of performance.
During the year under review the Companys net asset value per share total return was 13.1% 2017: 13.7%.
see glossary FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 16 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2018 Strategic Report Business Review Risk Management A detailed risk matrix is reviewed by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board twice a year.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Company relate to the nature of its objectives and strategy as an investment company and the markets in which it invests.
There were no changes to the Companys risk management processes during the year and no significant failings or weaknesses were identified from the Boards most recent risk review.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Corporate Strategy The Companys business model or The Board reviews the Companys investment mandate in relation to market and investment objective may become economic conditions and monitors the Companys performance against its peers.
In unacceptable or unattractive to addition, the Board holds meetings with shareholders when necessary and regularly shareholders.
reviews the AIFMs reports on marketing activities and investor feedback.
The Companys stockbroker also regularly reports to the Board on investor sentiment and movements on the share register.
The Board meets with the Portfolio Manager at each Board meeting and undertakes a regular review of compliance with the Companys investment guidelines.
The Board may be unable to maintain its The Board reviews income forecasts produced by the AIFM at every Board meeting.
The Companys Articles of Association permit the payment of dividends out of capital.
During the year a transfer of 12.4million to the Revenue reserve from the Special reserve has significantly increased the level of revenue reserves available for distribution.
The Board also regularly reviews the Companys gearing levels in discussion with the Portfolio Manager as well as compliance with the gearing limits it sets.
The Companys share price total return The Board operates a discount control mechanism which is intended to protect against may differ materially from the NAV per the share price widening beyond a 5% discount to NAV per share.
There is also a share share total return.
issuance programme which acts as a premium control mechanism.
Investment Strategy and Activity The investment strategy adopted by the The Board reviews the performance of the portfolio against the benchmark and the Portfolio Manager may lead to an Companys peer group at every meeting as well as a monthly compliance report and investment return that is materially lower the monthly fact sheet.
The Board discusses with the Portfolio Manager the structure than the Companys benchmark index, of the portfolio, including asset allocation and portfolio concentration, and the thereby failing to achieve the Companys investment strategy at each meeting.
The Board reviews the portfolio management arrangements on an annual basis or as The departure of a key individual at the appropriate.
In turn, the Portfolio Manager reports on developments at Lindsell Train, Portfolio Manager may affect the including succession and business continuity plans.
Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 17 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2018 Strategic Report Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Shareholder Relations and Corporate Governance The investment objective of existing At each meeting the Board reviews movements in the Companys shareholder shareholders no longer coincides with register.
In addition, the AIFM and the Companys corporate stockbroker both report the investment objective of the on their interactions with investors.
Company or the Board becomes unaware of the identity of the Companys shareholders.
Poor adherence to corporate The Board reviews all information supplied to shareholders and the AIFMs marketing governance best practice or errors or activity at each meeting and periodically reviews the Companys website.
Details of irregularities in published information the Companys compliance with corporate governance best practice, including could lead to censure and or result in information on relationship with shareholders, are set out in the Corporate reputational damage to the Company.
Governance Report on pages 22 and 23.
Operational The Companys service providers The Board reviews the terms of all major service agreements and the Audit perform poorly, fail to meet their Committee meets annually with the Companys auditors to discuss the years audit contractual obligations or fail to provide findings without management being present.
The AIFM reports by exception on the sufficient or accurate information to the performance of outsourced service providers and reviews contracts to ensure they Board for decision-making.
remain reasonable and competitive, undertaking tender processes when appropriate.
Both the AIFMs and the Portfolio Managers compliance officers report to the Audit Committee at every meeting and their internal control report, together with the internal control report of the Custodian, are reviewed annually.
These reviews include consideration of the associated cyber security risks facing the Company.
Errors regarding title to investment The AIFM monitors the portfolio movements daily and the Depositary submits semiholdings or threats to the solvency of the annual reports on the safe-keeping of the Companys assets.
The AIFM and the depositary may expose the Company to Depositary undertake stock reconciliations and produce monthly exceptions reports, financial loss.
with any discrepancies investigated promptly.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 18 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2018 Strategic Report Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Financial The Company is exposed to market risk, The Portfolio Manager is responsible for undertaking reviews of the creditworthiness liquidity risk, credit risk and fraud.
of the counterparties that it uses.
Compliance with investment guidelines is confirmed monthly.
The Board reviews a financial analysis at each meeting and the Depositary monitors all payments made from the Companys accounts as well as the custody of the Companys assets.
The AIFM confirms adherence with the relevant loan covenants to the provider of the Companys bank loan facility on a monthly basis.
Board approval is required for gearing and the Board reviews adherence to the loan covenants monthly.
Further information on financial instruments and risk can be found in note 17 to the Financial Statements beginning on page 44.
Accounting, Legal and Regulatory The regulatory environment in which the The Board relies on the services of its AIFM and its external advisers to ensure Company operates changes, affecting compliance with applicable laws and regulations including the Companies Act 2006, the Companys modus operandi.
the AIFM Rules, the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Section 1158, the Market Abuse Regulation MAR, the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DGTRs and Failure to comply with applicable laws the UKLA Listing Rules.
The Board reviews compliance reports and internal control and regulations could expose the reports provided by its service providers, as well as the Companys financial Company to serious financial loss and statements and forecasts.
The Depositary reports twice yearly to the Audit Committee, confirming that the Company, acting through the AIFM, has been managed in accordance with the AIFMD, the FUND sourcebook, the Articles in relation to the calculation of the NAV per share and with investment restrictions and leverage limits set in its offering documents.
The Depositary Report can be found on the Companys website www.
The Directors attend AIC Roundtables and conferences to keep up to date on regulatory changes and receive industry updates from the AIFM.
Approval The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 17 December 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Anthony Townsend Chairman
