Business review First Student Year to 31 March 2018 2017 Revenue $2,350.6m $2,323.3m Adjusted operating profit $210.4m $222.0m Adjusted operating margin 9.0% 9.6% Number of employees 48,000 50,500 First Student share of 2018 approximate Dennis Maple outsourced market revenue by type President, First Student around 38% of total market Our priorities: Leverage market leadership Grow through higher contract retention, innovation and selective M&A Enhance efficiency of our cost base First Student 21% Home-to-school contracts 91% National Express 11% School and third party charter 9% STA 7% 5m 460 1,100 Illinois Central, Krapf, Cook Illinois 3% student operating multi-year Others 58% journeys per day locations contracts Market conditions continue to support growth is also driven by additional routes First Student market review positive but limited organic growth and due to population growth or other factors andtrends modest conversions to outsourced organic growth.
North Americas 14,000 school districts providers, having been through a period deploy around 530,000 yellow school buses Competitors when the economic downturn put significant to provide home-to-school transportation The private outsourced market is highly pressure on school board budgets, which formillions of students, with the total market fragmented, with only three companies led to organic contraction, price pressure estimated to be worth around $25bn per operating fleets of more than 10,000 buses: and atypical levels of contract churn.
Approximately 38% is outsourced together they account for around 40% of Schooldistricts focus on value for money by the school districts to private operators, theoutsourced market.
13 other operators and quality of execution, including safety.
with the remainder operated in-house.
have 1,000 bus fleets, and the remaining High-quality, efficient outsourced providers Buses are also used for charter services, half of the outsourced market is operated by have been able to achieve above-inflation either for school customers in addition several thousand smaller operators, termed price increases in recent years, in part toscheduled school runs or for mom and pops.
Share shift, or winning reflecting increasing shortages of drivers othercustomers such as church and contracts previously managed by other incertain regions as the US employment communitygroups or businesses.
providers, together with acquisitions, provide market has strengthened.
Demand for home-to-school services is Customers principally driven by the size of the school Market attractions School districts obligations to provide age population.
School districts are funded Contracts with public sector customers, student transportation are determined from state and local sources, including typically low credit risk bycriteria set at state level.
Contracts property tax receipts, and their budgets Typically high levels of contract retention aretypically three to five years in duration forall expenditure, including transportation, after which they are often competitively tend to be linked to the macroeconomic Customer service, security and safety re-tendered, and specify fixed or annually climate.
The likelihood of school districts track record often as important as price indexed pricing, meaning that private tooutsource and changes in local criteria Established relationships with local operators bear cost risk.
In addition to forservice provision also play a part in the communities a barrier to entry customers outsourcing for the first time size of the addressable market.
conversion, and the price indexation, Fragmented marketplace multiple bolt-on M&A opportunities.
12 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report First Students revenue was $2,350.6m 2017:$2,323.3m, with increases from the fourth year of our contract pricing strategy, some organic growth and indexation on existing contracts offset by contracts not renewed.
The business operated for a similar number of days overall in the year, with the additional operating days in the 53rd week offset by the timing of Easter.
In constant currency and excluding the 53rd week, revenue decreased by 1.1%.
First Student partnering key industry programme Adjusted operating profit decreased by 5.3%to$210.4m 2017: $222.0m in constant The School Superintendents Association AASA announced a partnership with First currency, an adjusted operating margin of Student to support their National Superintendent of the Year program whichcelebrates 9.0% 2017: 9.6%.
Contract portfolio pricing the contribution, leadership and professionalism of public school superintendents.
The improvements and cost efficiency savings were partnership highlights our support of school leaders in creating world-class teaching offset by ongoing driver shortage costs and environments.
other inflation, lower contract retention rates than we had targeted for and the impact of the Find out more severe weather experienced in the second half.
com The net impact from bad weather was made up of a relatively high number of weather make up days in the first half reflecting the severe winter $13min the year.
These initiatives have been We maintained our safety track record during in 2017, largely offset by an unusually high delivered despite the ongoing challenge of the year and are investing to improve our number of days lost to bad weather in the last finding and retaining drivers in some locations performance further.
We also maintained our quarter, some of which we expect to get back due to the strong US employment market.
already high customer service scores and in the 2018 19 financial year as schools add Wecontinue to invest in our recruitment increased our likelihood to recommend them to the end of their academic calendar.
marketing, onboarding and retention scores.
We have also begun a partnership Inreported currency, adjusted operating profit programmes to contain the resulting driver with the US School Superintendents decreased 8.5% to 156.5m 2017: 171.1m cost inflation.
Despite driver shortages, our Association to support the National and the division reported a statutory profit of non-school charter bus offering, which Superintendent of the Year Program 88.4m 2017: 119.0m.
benefits our asset utilisation rates, grew aspartofour commitment to support revenues by 7.1% on a per bus basis.
Focused and disciplined bidding During the summer 2017 bid season we Prudent investment in our key assets Our priorities and outlook continued to focus our bidding strategy on We have sustained our investment in In the year ahead our focus is increasingly only retaining or bidding for contracts at prices systemsand processes that differentiate our onprofitable growth.
We have had an that reflect an appropriate return on the capital offering and enhance our customer service encouraging start to the bid season with we invest.
With a substantial proportion of the levels and safety performance.
Our FirstView improved retention rates and some major portfolio already benefiting from this strategy smartphone app, which provides real-time newcontracts already secured.
In addition to inprevious years, the moderating 5.3% buslocation tracking for parents and school improving contract retention and our ongoing average price increase on at risk business boards, now covers 140,000 students with pricing strategy, we intend to strengthen our was largely as expected, as was the higher 22,000 registered users to date: additional charter proposition, increase promotion of our atrisk retention rate of 83% compared with functionality for school districts has recently nascent managed services offering to school the prior year equivalent to 94% of the entire been added to the system.
We have sustained boards who provide home-to-school services fleet.
Combined with a modest level of organic our investment in the fleet and continue to in-house, and will more actively consider growth and some conversions from in-house improve our approach to cascading buses inorganic sources of growth such as small to private provision, we are operating a bus around our operations, which is a significant bolt-on acquisitions.
We will continue to fleet of approximately 42,000 vehicles for the competitive advantage of our scale.
Our improve our cost efficiency through initiatives balance of this school year.
average fleet age reduced slightly to 7.1 years.
such as enhanced on-board technology thatwill enhance daily operations and driver Continuous improvement in operating During the year we completed a small management, the full roll out of an employee and financial performance acquisition in the Chicago area, which is smartphone app which is transforming our First Student delivered further cost efficiencies, performing in line with our plans, and we are ability to communicate with our workforce including from changes to our engineering building up our pipeline of potential bolt-on andis specifically aimed at helping boost practices using the expertise of First Transits acquisition targets for the future.
driver retention, and the ongoing integration vehicle maintenance services segment, and Responsible partnerships with our ofour maintenance organisation and practices from our ongoing focus on best practice customers and communities with First Transit.
sharing and standardised processes within We are entrusted with the safety and thedivision.
These initiatives have delivered securityof millions of children every day, and recurring cost savings of approximately we take that responsibility extremely seriously.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 13 Business review First Transit Year to 31 March 2018 2017 Revenue $1,420.4m $1,358.9m Adjusted operating profit $77.8m $95.2m Adjusted operating margin 5.5% 7.0% Number of employees 19,000 19,500 Approximate First Transit 2018 approximate Brad Thomas share of c. $30bn North revenue by type President, First Transit American transit market of which c. 30% is outsourced Our priorities: Maintain value leadership in core business Pilot new business models Growth from adjacent services and newgeographies First Transit 5% Fixed route 37% Other outsourced providers 25% Paratransit 33% In-House 70% Shuttle 19% 1 2,600 330 340m Vehicle services 10% vehicles owned contracts with passengers Rail 1% oroperated an average a year value of less than $5m efficient alternative to in-house provision, isfragmented, though First Transit has two First Transit market review which results in the continued growth of large competitors, MV Transportation, Inc. andtrends theoutsourced market.
Meanwhile the andTransdev North America.
First Vehicle The transit market is worth around shuttle segment continues to grow, with Services business is estimated to be one $30bnper annum in North America, of private companies, universities and ofthe largest providers in the outsourced which around 30% is outsourced.
Private airportsseeking to offer improved services fleet maintenance market, with Penske providers manage, operate, maintain and to their own customers and employees.
andRyder being the main competitors.
organise transportation services for clients Anumber of small and medium sized under contracts which typically last for Customers companies represent a significant threeto five years.
The market includes A wide range of customers contract proportion of the outsourced market.
fixedroute bus services c. $20bn segment, outfixed route and paratransit services, Themarket continues to attract aggressive of which more than 10% is outsourced, including municipal transit authorities, new entrants, though reputation and track paratransit bus services c. $5bn segment, federal, state and local agencies.
These record remain important differentiators.
three-quarters outsourced, private shuttle contracts typically are to operate and services c. $2bn segment, around 90% manage vehicle fleets owned by the client.
Market attractions outsourced and vehicle maintenance Institutions such as universities, hospitals, Contracts with public sector customers, services c. $3bn segment, more than airports and private companies are the main typically low credit risk 30%outsourced.
Internationally, the clients for the shuttle segment, and usually Typically high levels of contract retention outsourced market for such services require provision of the vehicle fleet.
Vehicle isatanearlier stage of development, Low levels of capital investment required maintenance services include contracts for thoughopportunities are increasing.
apart from in shuttle private and public sector clients, including municipalities, and fire and police With aging populations and increasing urban Aging populations and congestion trends departments.
congestion, the range and sophistication provide support for continued international oftransportation services that municipal growth through further outsourcing.
Competitors authorities seek or in some cases First Transit has around 15% of the mandated to provide is rising.
Private sector outsourced market in North America, contractors are well placed to enhance fleet whichaccounts for c. 30% of the total productivity, deliver innovation to improve market.
The outsourced transit market passenger experience and provide an 14 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Prudent investment in our key assets In the majority of our contracts we operate or Piloting autonomous manage services on behalf of our clients rather vehicles than providing vehicles.
We have maintained our investment in the latest driver management, In California, First Transit has signed an predictive analytics and routing technology.
exclusive agreement with the GoMentum Weare also investing in autonomous vehicle Station testing centre to carry out AV technology, and now have six AV research and development.
The team operational partnerships underway, including tested autonomous vehicles in tough our first vehicle on public streets scheduled winter conditions in Minnesota and is tostart in June 2018.
Additionally we have now providing car park shuttles for the established teaming agreements with several Texas Rangers baseball and Dallas leading AV manufacturers to provide new Cowboys NFL teams.
We will use growth opportunities in this market.
learnings from First Transit in the UK where we have secured government Responsible partnerships with our funding to carry out the first trial of such customers and communities vehicles on UK roads, at Milton Park We remain committed to offering the best business and science hub in Didcot.
valuepackage to our customers and the communities we serve, which means our professionalism, technical and operational Find out more expertise and safety standards are as important www.
com as our cost effectiveness in winning or retaining business.
We have completed the roll out of First Transits revenue was $1,420.4m higher prices and lost, resulting in our retention oursafety behavioural change programme, 2017:$1,358.9m, an increase of 2.4% in rate on at risk contracts of 82% during the which has had a positive impact on our safety rd constant currency and excluding the 53 year.
First Transit did however have a good performance, and we were pleased to have week.
As expected, contract awards and yearfor new business, with 33 new contracts further increased our already strong customer organic growth in the rest of the division was including major paratransit and fixed route satisfaction score during the year.
partially offset by lower shuttle bus activity in winsfrom the Vancouver and Los Angeles Our priorities and outlook theCanadian oil sands region compared with authorities, respectively.
We were pleased to First Transit continues to develop our diversified the prior year.
Reported revenue increased retain or extend a number of significant pieces platform of sector expertise and exceptional to1,072.7m 2017: 1,042.0m.
of business during the year, such as our management strength in North American GreaterRichmond paratransit contract where Adjusted operating profit was $77.8m transitmarkets through continuous investment we initially fulfilled a short term emergency 2017:$95.2m, representing an adjusted in our people and technology.
We see contract that we have now extended into a operating margin of 5.5% 2017: 7.0%.
A opportunities for further growth in our core multi-year relationship, and our City of Phoenix disappointing first half margin principally markets, particularly in shuttle and in vehicle fixed route contract which we have operated reflected higher costs in relation to certain services, increasingly for corporate as well as forover a decade.
We are taking a measured poorly performing contracts: First Transit public clients.
We also expect to have approach to applying our expertise to new succeeded in improving its second half opportunities in adjacent markets where we geographies and services to secure additional marginas forecasted, reflecting the reversal of have now established our credentials such sources of growth.
In the year, we extended our aprovision against receivables made in light aslight rail, commuter rail and bus rapid transit successful Panama contract by an additional ofthe hurricanes which devastated Puerto BRT to become increasingly significant two-and-a-half years, participated in significant Ricoin the first half and despite higher medical forour business.
We continue to develop North American commuter rail and light rail costs and continued cost pressure from driver partnerships with ridesharing companies to competitions, and are working to establish a shortages in certain regions.
In reported provide Americans with Disabilities Actsolid footprint in the Indian market.
currency, adjusted operating profit decreased compliant transportation.
by 20.6% to 58.2m 2017: 73.3m and Continuous improvement in operating We remain confident that our services are a statutory profit was 34.3m 2017: 71.3m.
and financial performance compelling option for both local authorities We continue to develop our technology Focused and disciplined bidding andprivate customers to outsource their infrastructure, management expertise and Our shuttle business successfully renewed transportation management needs.
We will national service platform to help to sustain several university campus and airport contracts therefore keep bidding for contracts offering FirstTransits performance in highly competitive in the year: however, two of our contracts in the good margins with modest capital investment, markets.
We also upgraded our recruitment, Canadian oil sands region were not, resulting in while seeking to replenish and grow our retention and training systems and processes a 5.4m restructuring charge in the year: the portfolio of contracts both within our core to ensure we maintain the necessary capability loss of these high margin contracts will have an markets and by piloting new business models.
in what remains a tight US employment market.
impact on the divisions margin going forward.
In the year we had some success initiating a In addition to the oil sands contracts, we also programme to recruit unemployed Puerto completed work on the two relatively large Rican drivers to take on roles on the mainland poorly performing contracts discussed at the inresponse to the driver shortages we are half year stage, where we had bid significantly experiencing in some areas.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 15 Business review Greyhound Year to 31 March 2018 2017 Revenue $912.7m $894.0m Adjusted operating profit $32.8m $55.2m Adjusted operating margin 3.6% 6.2% Number of employees 6,000 6,500 Distribution of Greyhound 2018 approximate Dave Leach passengers by mileage band revenue by type President, Greyhound Our priorities: Capture maximum value from our brand and nationwide network Extend successful Express model External business review 1-200 miles 44% Passenger 80% 201-450 miles 38% Package Express 7% 451-1,000 miles 13% Food 2% 1,000 miles 5% Charter 1% Other 10% 4,000 1,000 1,600 destinations Point-to-Point approximate across North Greyhound vehicle fleet America Express city pair combinations airlines, that have added significant Greyhound market review Competitors capacityto their fleets in recent years, andtrends Intercity coach services compete with many hashad a significant impact, particularly In the last ten years the US intercity coach other modes of midto long-distance travel onlonger journeys.
industry has enhanced its relevance to across North America, including budget potential passengers through improvements airlines and the private car.
The intercity As well as passenger revenues, income is in the onboard experience and new or coach market is highly competitive in generated from package express services, improved offerings such as point-to-point densetravel corridors such as the US charter and tour organisation and also express services on high density routes.
northeastand north west, where coach terminal catering outlets.
Partnerships The potential market size remains a also competes with air and rail.
between Greyhound and independent significant opportunity, with 42m people buslines interlining, extend the reach Market attractions considering coach travel every year, of ofour national network.
Private car use becoming less attractive whom a quarter currently use Greyhound.
particularly to younger customers, due to Customers Even regular coach users choose increasing urbanisation, congestion and North American intercity coach firms serve competing modes 75% of the time, but costs of motoring awide range of customers, many of whom acombination of convenient city centre prioritise value and whose primary purpose Target demographic segments responsive destinations, tailored services and price is to visit friends and family.
Direct point-toto innovation through technology and hasthe potential to grow ridership and point services such as Greyhound Express value-for-money offering frequency of use, particularly for relatively and BoltBus have begun to attract a short haul journeys.
Opportunities to expand penetration and younger, urban demographic with less footprint in US and Mexico The substantial and rapid fall in at-pump interest in maintaining a private car.
fuelprices in the final months of 2014 Historically customers typically bought Under-utilised services may be partresulted in a reduction in coach passenger tickets at terminals on their day of travel, funded by transport authorities.
demand as the cost of other forms of butincreasingly customers purchase in transport became more attractive.
More advance online or on smartphones.
recently, competition from ultra low cost 16 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Greyhounds revenue was $912.7m 2017:$894.0m, with like-for-like revenue Quick and easy tickets decreasing by 0.7%.
This reflects short haul across the network growth including 7.7% like-for-like growth achieved by Greyhound Express being more Greyhound launched mobile ticketing in than offset by declines in long haul demand, September, rolling it out across the where competition from ultra low cost airlines network in November.
This allows inparticular is intensifying.
These competitors customers to purchase tickets quickly are bringing significant additional aircraft and easily from the greyhound.
com capacity into operation while also connecting website and board a bus by simply toa growing number of secondary airports.
The new Wehave also experienced reductions in traffic paperless capability is streamlining the in the southern border regions due to tighter travel and boarding process for drivers immigration and law enforcement.
Including the and customers alike across North 53rd week and reflecting stronger translation America.
rates into pounds Sterling, reported revenue increased by 0.8% to 690.2m 2017: 684.7m.
Find out more Adjusted operating profit was $32.8m 2017: www.
com $55.2m, representing an adjusted operating margin of 3.6% 2017: 6.2%, with our ability to upgrade our online offerings, building on the tailored to our needs, and during the year we mitigate the revenue challenges noted above well-received mobile app we introduced in relocated to the new Intercity Bus Terminal at through further cost efficiencies limited by the 2016 17, with the majority of our customers the Jacksonville Regional Transportation Center ongoing increases in fleet maintenance and nowbuying tickets using this app or online.
in Florida, as well as two renovated terminals driver costs previously highlighted.
Greyhound Throughout the US network e-tickets and atthe Amtrak station in Salem, Oregon and was also affected by this years difficult weather bus-side scanning have now been rolled out, Union Station in Springfield, Missouri.
We now conditions in some of the busiest parts of streamlining the boarding process.
We have occupy a new intermodal terminal in Baltimore, ournetwork.
Recognising the difficult trading also strengthened our punctuality processes Maryland.
July will mark the third anniversary conditions in the year and the outlook, we have and systems, and have recently updated and ofproviding international links to and domestic impaired the carrying value of the divisions standardised our customer pledges on service services within Mexico, where we provide goodwill and other assets by $387.3m or delivery whilst upgrading our terminals where options for customers connecting from 277.3m.
Adjusted operating profit in reported needed to improve the passenger experience.
Monterrey to Nuevo Laredo and major currency decreased 40.1% to 25.5m hubsinTexas.
We will make further modest 2017:42.6m and the division reported a Continuous improvement in operating investments to deliver on the opportunities statutory loss of 266.3m 2017: 53.7m profit.
and financial performance available to us in this market.
Greyhound ended its long-standing pool Driving growth through attractive arrangements with Peter Pan Lines in the Responsible partnerships with our commercial propositions USNorth East during the year, allowing us to customers and communities Greyhound is a unique business thanks to its develop our own separate offering in the region, Further customer service training was iconic brand and access to by far the largest providing customers with all of the benefits undertaken in the year, focusing on allowing intercity coach network in North America.
available to our passengers elsewhere.
We are ouremployees to take advantage of the Overrecent years we have taken major also taking action to improve the efficiency of improved ticket data and service information stepstotransform all areas of the customer our fleet management with the development of now available throughout the business.
With a new specialised centre in Brownsville, Texas.
thetrends in different parts of our business Our priorities and outlook diverging, we are adapting our business in Our Canadian operations 15% of Greyhound The strategic challenge for Greyhound is that response.
Our point-to-point Greyhound revenue remain loss-making.
Despite a range our unique network across North America is a Express and BoltBus brands, which offer higher of cost-reduction and efficiency measures significant competitive advantage versus other density timetables between popular city pair overseveral years, we continue to experience coach companies but intensifying low cost destinations, have successfully grown since demand challenges.
In the year we applied to airline competition is putting increasing pressure their introduction and we aim to convert more eliminate services on the majority of our routes on the long haul segment.
The business review ofthe traditional network to run similar in British Columbia which will take effect from that is underway is directed at determining the schedules.
These have been strong 1June 2018. most appropriate response for the Group to beneficiaries of the transformation in thischange in the market conditions faced Prudent investment in our key assets Greyhounds business systems in recent years: byGreyhound.
In the near term we continue Following a number of years where the and since February our entire network is now toinvest to support Greyhounds growth business required few additional vehicles, benefiting from real-time pricing and yield opportunities while adjusting the current thisyear our fleet renewal plan saw the management.
We are further developing our network and timetables, though maintaining introduction of 88 new buses into our fleet with relationship management systems to offer thedivisions earnings will be challenging high-quality amenities as standard including benefits for customers and deployed modest giventhe changes in the long haul free Wi-Fi, leather seats and generous legroom.
marketing spend during the year to promote .
We regularly review opportunities to move to awareness of these changes through targeted intermodal transport hubs or new facilities online advertising.
We are continuing to FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17 Business review First Bus Year to 31 March 2018 2017 Revenue 879.4m 861.7m Adjusted operating profit 50.2m 37.0m Adjusted operating margin 5.7% 4.3% Number of employees 16,500 17,000 Approximate First Bus 2018 approximate Giles Fearnley market share of UK market revenue by type Managing Director, First Bus outside London Our priorities: Prioritise investment where we can work inpartnership with local authorities Frictionless customer offering to drivegrowth Drive further efficiencies in cost base First Bus 20% Passenger revenue 67% Others 80% Concessions 24% Tenders 5% Other 4% 1.6m 5,800 passengers approximate per day fleetofbuses Since deregulation, local authorities have First Bus market review and trends Competitors had the ability to regulate services in their Local bus services in the UK outside The UK bus market outside London area if they demonstrate the existing model London have been deregulated since the isderegulated and highly competitive is failing to deliver for passengers, though 1980s, with most services provided by withhundreds of bus operators: we face such powers have not been exercised private operators, though a small number competition in all markets in which we anywhere to date.
The Bus Services Act, oflocal authority-owned operators still exist.
Through the year operators which received royal assent in April 2017, In local bus markets, operators set fares, haveboth entered and left the market.
has somewhat simplified the process of frequencies and routes commercially while Themain competitor is the private car.
exercising franchising powers for qualifying operating some socially necessary services Market attractions local authorities, though it also enhances under local authority contracts.
Around Growth potential from strategies tailored therange of partnership models available 2.7bn passenger journeys are made on tospecific customer segments or to tolocal authorities, which First Bus already busservices outside of London, generating enhance convenience: opportunity supports in areas such as Sheffield, revenues of approximately 4.2bn a year.
inyouth demographic, where car Doncaster, Hampshire, the West of England, Partnerships between operators and local ownershipis falling Cornwall and most recently Leeds.
authorities are a core principle for the Local bus trips account for 59% of all Customers industry and central government, to support journeys by public transport in England Bus market revenues principally comprise service delivery, minimise congestion and form an important component of passenger ticket sales and concessionary anddrive innovation and investment.
The localauthorities ability to fulfil their air fare schemes reimbursements by local DfT promotes this through initiatives such quality obligations authorities for passengers entitled to free or as Better Bus Area grants and the Green reduced fares.
A significant proportion of Bus travel diversified by journey type.
In recent years, operators have customers use bus services to commute to improved their offering to passengers work or education, to go shopping and for through smart and multi-operator ticketing, leisure.
Income is also generated through more flexible fare options, real-time tendered local bus services and bespoke passenger information and increasingly contracts such as Park & Ride schemes.
18 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report First Bus reported revenue of 879.4m the nationwide roll out by summer 2018, markets where the local stakeholders recognise 2017:861.7m for the year, an increase of making usthe first national UK bus company the importance of bus services in responding to 2.1%.
Divisional like-for-like passenger revenue todo so.
Cashless ticketing now accounts the problems of congestion, air quality, parking growth was 1.1%, and we are encouraged that forhalf of our sales in some areas.
In many and issues of social exclusion.
We took delivery it accelerated in each quarter of the financial markets, we are growing our mobile channel of 93 new Euro VI emissions standard vehicles year, though market conditions for the industry by differentiating between cash and digital in the year.
We also operate vehicles powered remain uncertain and vary by local market.
fares, reducing the volume of cash transactions by a number of alternative fuels, and alongside High street retail footfall trends, worsening and accelerating bus boarding times.
In April our hydrogen fleet in Aberdeen and electric fleet congestion in several localities, and general 2017 we launched our upgraded passenger in York, we have now introduced bio-methane UK macroeconomic uncertainty all affect app which provides door-to-door journey buses to Bristol.
We are also the lead partner passenger demand in different ways.
planning and our previously separate mobile onthe first trial of autonomous vehicles on Like-for-like commercial passenger volumes ticketing system was integrated during the year.
UKroads, a 30 month project at Milton Park increased by 0.2% in the year, though overall business and science hub near Didcot.
In the contract tender market, we are an like-for-like volumes fell by 0.7%, reflecting industry leader in managing Park & Ride Responsible partnerships with our further reductions in concessions volumes services, winning or retaining several contracts customers and communities dueto changes in bus pass entitlement and in the year including the countrys largest such Buses play a key role in keeping people funding.
Our contract and tendered revenue operation in York.
Our airport and university movingand communities prospering, with increased by 1.1%.
shuttle portfolio also increased and we more passengers taking buses daily than Adjusted operating profit was 50.2m delivered services for high profile events anyother form of public transport.
In addition, 2017:37.0m, or an adjusted margin of suchas the UEFA Champions League final they are fundamental to delivering Clean Air 5.7% 2017: 4.3%.
Adjusted margin increased inCardiff in June 2017. orLow Emissions Zones in partnership with by 140bps, reflecting stabilised passenger local and regional authorities.
In February, the Continuous improvement in operating volumes, the cumulative effect of our actions DfT announced that20 councils are to share and financial performance to tailor our network, fares, depot footprints a 40m fund to retro-fit buses with cleaner We continue to take action to enhance our and other costs to become more efficient engines.
We worked with several of our local cost efficiency.
At the beginning of the year we anda fuel tailwind.
Widespread service authority partners to access this funding.
consolidated from six to four depots serving suspensions dueto the severe snowstorms the Greater Manchester area and transferred In many areas, congestion prevents us from inFebruary andMarch had a negative impact our Galashiels-based Borders network to running reliable bus routes.
Local authorities on revenues and profit, while the impact of West Coast Motors.
We have also optimised arekey to solving this, through measures the53rd week was muted because the our networks in many areas to save cost and suchas bus priority and traffic segregation, yearincluded two Easter weekends, when raise reliability and punctuality for passengers.
meaning that strong partnerships with councils commuter and schoolpatronage is lower.
Our IT investments have allowed us to are vital.
We are encouraged that last years Principally reflecting restructuring and standardise many of our processes, including Bus Services Act recognises the importance reorganisation costs, the division reported location tracking and revenue collection, to ofsuch partnerships.
We are working with astatutory profit of 29.3m 2017: 26.1m.
increase the availability of accurate real-time Bristol City Council and the West of England Driving growth through attractive data and plan our services more accurately.
Combined Authority on the Metrobus priority commercial propositions Where possible we are centralising shared route network which launched in May 2018 and We continue to improve the simplicity and functions to realise efficiencies.
is designed to improve the bus offering in the convenience of our offering for passengers, city and attract new users.
We also continue to Prudent investment in our key assets particularly in ticketing.
Around 80% of our work closely with Leeds City Council: together As previously noted, we are investing in the fleethas now been fitted with contactless we are aiming to double patronage by 2025, FirstBus fleet at lower levels than the prior year, payment card readers and we will complete supported by a 173.5m public funding as we focus our capital budget only on those package over four years to develop new bus-friendly schemes, whilst First Bus is committed to investing in a fully ultra-low New technology helps emissions fleet by 2020 in the city.
passengers with their journeys Our priorities and outlook We continue to invest in new payment technology Our focus remains on enhancing our ability to thatmakes catching the bus much easier.
Contactless deliver efficient, cost effective and passengerfocused services.
In the year ahead we expect payment sees growth every week, within each of our to sustain the volume growth and margin businesses.
The use of mTickets is also exceeding improvement momentum we have delivered expectations, doubling year-on-year usage.
We are targeting our alsoimproving how customers plan their journeys, investment plans to that end by focusing on enabling them to follow their bus on our app via GPS.
local markets where, byworking closely in The information that we now have from our on-board partnership with local authorities, we can deliver equipment enables us to manage the operations in compelling and sustainable transport solutions.
realtime as well as providing valuable data for network planning and timetabling.
com FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 19 Business review First Rail Year to 31 March 2018 2017 Revenue 1,968.8m 1,268.8m Adjusted operating profit 57.8m 53.8m Adjusted operating margin 2.9% 4.2% Number of employees 10,500 7,500 Passenger revenue base 2018 approximate Steve Montgomery 1 of First Rail operations revenue by type Managing Director, First Rail Our priorities: Deliver growth from capacity additions and service enhancements Leverage our scale to deliver efficiencies West Coast Partnership bid with partnerTrenitalia Leisure 49% Passenger revenue 93% Business 29% Other income 7% Commuter 13% Travelcard incl Oyster 9% 227m 7.4bn 1 In the year the Group received no revenue support from Government in franchise payments passenger miles and made total franchise payments to Government of 226.9m, which to Government travelled are included in costs First Rail market review and trends and TOCs will be further encouraged Competitors Passenger rail services are primarily provided through the design of future franchise The main competitor to rail in the UK is the by private train operating companies TOCs competitions.
The strategy also stressed private car.
On some passenger flows there through franchises awarded by the relevant theGovernments desire to see more is competition from other rail services and, authority, but may also be provided on an privatesector involvement in the upgrade toa lesser extent, from long distance coach open access basis.
Many elements of and creation of new rail infrastructure services and airlines.
First Rail bids for theservice provided to customers are franchises against other operators of current Network Rails new digital railway strategy mandated as part of the franchise contract UK rail franchises and public transport promises to create more capacity and and others are left to commercial judgement.
morefrequent services and enable vastly Total franchised passenger revenues in improved mobile and Wi-Fi connectivity.
Market attractions theUK are more than 9bn per annum.
Theindustry collectively through the Rail More than 9bn of long term contractRailtracks and infrastructure signalling Delivery Group launched a campaign backed passenger revenue available andstations are owned and managed by highlighting the partnership working to through 19 major franchise opportunities, Network Rail, and TOCs typically lease deliver more capacity and enhanced of which more than half by revenue will moststations from Network Rail and rolling services and a consultation on reform of fare belet by 2021 stock from leasing companies.
regulation, to make the fare system more New franchises typically have significant attractive and accessible to customers.
Passenger numbers have more than revenue opportunity risk with some doubled since privatisation, recently revenue protection, clear contingent Customers reachinga post-war high of 1.7bn, though capitalrequirements but low overall Rail markets are generally categorised the rate of growth has recently slowed.
The capitalintensity intothree sectors: London and south Government continues to invest in upgrades eastcommuter services: regional: and Regulated environment, including to the rail infrastructure across the UK, with longdistance.
Certain networks also government-capped regulated Network Rail delivering a number of large offersleeper services.
Parts of GWR fall fareincreases national projects like route electrification on intoall four categories.
Historically high levels of passenger arelargely commuters.
TPE is mainly a numbers across the UK.
In late 2017, the Government published its rail longdistance intercity operation, and strategy, in which it signalled that ever closer HullTrains caters principally to long working relationships between Network Rail distanceandleisure travellers.
20 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Continuous improvement in With the line electrified as far as Didcot, In the year our First Rail division revenue operatingand financial performance themove of suburban electric trains to run increased to 1,968.8m 2017: 1,268.8m, We have a strong track record in close between London and Didcot under a new principally reflecting the inclusion of the SWR partnership working with Network Rail, timetable was able to be completed by franchise since August 2017.
Like-for-like theDfTand all industry partners to deliver January 2018, providing more capacity.
passenger revenue growth was 4.1% and infrastructure upgrade projects whilst Inturn, we have also begun cascading the passenger volume growth was 1.4%, in part minimising disruption for passengers.
London suburban Turbo trains to Bristol reflecting a shift away from season ticket Completion of these projects typically andthe West Country where they will purchases and the way these are recorded by permitsthe introduction into service of providemore seats for the network there.
the industry in volume statistics.
Industry additional train capacity or more intense Webegan introducing the new higher studies suggest the main drivers for recent timetables, which in turn generates the capacityIETs on longer distances from last slowing in growth across the sector include patronage growth that drives the franchise October.
When this fleet is fully operational it UK macroeconomic uncertainty, modal shift business plans and consequentially the will enable a 40% increase in seat numbers due to sustained lower fuel prices and working premium payments to thegovernment.
compared to 2015, with quicker journey practices, and the effect of rail infrastructure timesand more frequent services.
upgrade works taking place across the Network Rails electrification work continues country.
The latter is particularly relevant to on the Great Western mainline, albeit at a We also adjust our own operating plans GWR, although like-for-like passenger revenue slower rate than originally envisaged, and totake changing timescales into account growth of 2.7% in the franchise accelerated weare working with our industry partners to andtofind alternative ways to deliver our during the year, benefiting in part from the reflect the impact of these delays in the level improvements for customers as soon as additional capacity generated by the ofour franchise commitments and model.
possible, as has been the case in TPE this introduction into service of the Intercity Ourrail franchises cover a period during which year in respect of the Bolton-Preston line.
SWRs operational there is significant change major infrastructure Inall, more than 500m is being invested performance and revenue growth has been work, electrification and resignalling, and inour TPE franchise to transform the affected by the Waterloo upgrades and other introduction of new trains.
These changes operationinto the true intercity network for infrastructure work which will permit the require careful planning, management and theNorth, with 13 million more seats across introduction of additional capacity by the end negotiation with industry partners, in particular the operation.
220 new carriages are being of 2020.
TPE delivered like-for-like passenger where delays can impact the delivery of introduced from later this year, comprising revenue growth of 10.0%, with even greater franchise assumptions.
Failure to manage amix of Hitachi IET-type trains and a further growth required as new fleets start to be these risks adequately could result in financial intercity fleet from CAF.
introduced into service from Autumn 2018. and reputational impacts to the Group.
Adjusted operating profit of 57.8m 2017:53.8m represents a margin of 2.9% 2017: 4.2%.
Divisional profitability was driven by GWR and a solid part-year contribution despite its operating challenges from SWR, partially offset by an operating loss of 6.5m atTPE in the year, while our open access operator Hull Trains performed well despite also experiencing some operational challenges in the year.
We have taken the decision to provide for forecast losses of up to 106.3m over the remaining life of the TPE contract, based on analysis of the impact of the ongoing industry-wide slowdown in growth on the financial assumptions we made in our bid.
Asa result, the Rail division reported a statutory loss of 50.6m 2017: 53.5m profit for the year.
Focused and disciplined bidding GWR currently operates under a direct award which runs to the end of March 2020 following the DfTs decision in the year to exercise an New TPE trains enter testing extension option.
We are shortlisted as bidders The first of TransPennine Expresss new Nova 3 trains commenced testing in the for the upcoming West Coast Partnership CzechRepublic in April 2018.
The 13 trains will provide free Wi-Fi and USB charging franchise competition in a partnership with points, and significantly increase seating for passengers when they enter service Trenitalia.
Outside franchising, we continue to towardsthe end of the year.
develop our plans for a new single-class open access service between London, north east Find out more England and Edinburgh from 2021. www.
co. uk FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 21 Business review First Rail continued We began operation of the SWR franchise RAIBs analysis and its own internal reviews inthe middle of the extensive upgrade to and will continue working hard, alongside TfL, London Waterloo station over the summer, to follow the RAIBs recommendations and when several platforms were extended for make further improvements where necessary.
This has led to subsequent Prudent investment in our key assets unplanned infrastructure works with a As noted, we continue to deliver new trains disappointing impact on punctuality and forall of our rail companies.
However the ofour customers will be travelling on a train outcome of this improvement work, and the less than five years old.
Passenger benefits reopening of the former international platforms from these new trains include more seats later in 2018, will deliver the infrastructure andspace, Wi-Fi and onboard entertainment needed to support our future capacity growth options.
We are also completely refurbishing plans.
These include the introduction of SWR increases capacity other fleets throughout our business with 90new trains manufactured by Bombardier, similar amenities.
Our redesigned passenger South Western Railway SWR added providing a 46% increase in peak capacity app has now rolled out across all our train 150additional carriages on some of its onthe suburban routes into Waterloo.
companies, allowing customers to purchase busiest routes, following the completion tickets and reserve seats as well as plan In December 2017 the Rail Accident of Network Rails work to lengthen door-to-door journeys.
Investigation Branch RAIB released their platforms at Waterloo station in August.
report into the tragic incident which took The introduction of these trains allows Responsible partnerships with our placethe previous year on the tram existing stock to be transferred customers and communities networkinCroydon.
We are grateful for their elsewhere on the network, boosting GWR were awarded the titles of Rail Operator recommendations for improvements to the capacity by adding more than 5,000 of the Year and Rail Business of the Year tram system in Croydon and across the UK.
during the period, recognising the introduction Amongst its findings, the RAIB concluded in of new fleets and their highest ever National respect of our subsidiary Tram Operations Find out more Rail Passenger Survey customer satisfaction www.
com Limited TOL that management of fatigue figures in 2016. wasnot a factor in the incident, nor was there Our franchise commitments for SWR included evidence of a speeding culture contributing to more generous delay repay compensation it.
Nevertheless, over the past year from prior GWRalsoworked with TfL and industry which was introduced a few days after the to the final RAIB report, TOL has taken a series partners to prepare for the launch of the franchise began.
of actions, working closely with Transport Elizabeth Line, with suburban stations forLondon TfL on whose behalf it operates During the year an agreement with Heathrow transferred to TfL Rail operation in early2018.
the tram services, to implement additional Airport was reached for GWR to run the measures including enhanced speed Following the success of the Customer and operational aspects of Heathrow Express monitoring and restrictions, improved Communities Improvement Funds at GWR including the introduction of a dedicated signageand renewed guidance on fatigue and TPE, a similar scheme is being launched fleetof trains by December 2019. management.
TOL has learned from the by SWR this year, which will work with community organisations across the network.
Our priorities and outlook We remain focused on working with our Apprentices take industry partners to deliver our plans for more overBristol station capacity and better customer experiences, which will in turn drive patronage growth GWR celebrated National Apprentice overtime.
Week by running an entire station, for one day, with current and former apprentices.
Our current Rail portfolio as a whole has and The eleven employees worked a range of will continue to generate good returns for the different roles at Bristol Parkway station Group.
Our decision to provide for forecast including train dispatch, tickets sales and losses of up to 106.3m over the remaining life customer service.
GWRs operations of the TPE contract does not affect our plans apprenticeship scheme started in 2011 for the remainder of the franchise to increase and to date the company has trained capacity on the TPE network by more than more than 90 people in front line 80% and create a true intercity railway for operational roles.
theNorth, in conjunction with our industry partners.
The balance of the rail portfolio GWR, SWR and Hull Trains is expected to generate satisfactory returns.
The payments associated with network unavailability due to infrastructure improvements and repairs will Find out more continue to cause swings in period-towww.
22 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018
