Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Report of the Directors continued Companies Act 2006 Disclosures continued Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions there exist no securities carrying special rights with As the Group has outsourced operations to third regard to the control of the Company: parties, there are no significant greenhouse gas emissions to report from the operations of the Group.
the Company does not have an employees share scheme: In relation to the Groups investee companies, the level of greenhouse gas emissions arising from the low the rules concerning the appointment and volume of electricity imports and from operation and replacement of Directors are contained in the maintenance activity is not considered material for Companys Articles of Association and the disclosure purposes.
Further, as the assets are Companies Act 2006: renewable energy generators, they reduce carbon dioxide emissions on a net basis at a rate of there exist no agreements to which the Company approximately 0.4t CO2 per MWh.
is party that may affect its control following a takeover bid: and Risks and Risk Management The Group is exposed to financial risks such as price there exist no agreements between the Company risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk and and its Directors providing for compensation for the management and monitoring of these risks are loss of ofce that may occur because of a takeover detailed in note 18 to the financial statements.
Independent Auditor Investment Trust Status The Directors will propose the reappointment of BDO The Company has been approved as an investment LLP as the Companys Auditor and resolutions trust under sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation concerning this and the remuneration of the Taxes Act 2010.
As an investment trust, the Company Companys Auditor will be proposed at the AGM.
is required to meet relevant eligibility conditions and ongoing requirements.
In particular, the Company So far as each of the Directors at the time that this must not retain more than 15 per cent.
of its eligible report was approved are aware: investment income.
The Company has conducted and monitored its affairs so as to enable it to comply with there is no relevant audit information of which the these requirements.
Auditor is unaware: and Diversity and Business Review they have taken all the steps they ought to have A business review is detailed in the Investment taken to make themselves aware of any audit Managers Report on pages 9 to 21 and the Groups information and to establish that the Auditor is policy on diversity is detailed in the Corporate aware of that information.
Annual Accounts Directors Indemnity The Board is of the opinion that the Annual Report, Directors and Ofcers liability insurance cover is in taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable place in respect of the Directors.
The Companys and provides the information necessary for Articles of Association provide, subject to the shareholders to assess the performance, strategy and provisions of UK legislation, an indemnity for Directors business model of the Company.
in respect of costs which they may incur relating to the The Board recommends that the Annual Report, the defence of any proceedings brought against them Report of the Directors and the Independent Auditors arising out of their positions as Directors, in which they Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 are are acquitted or judgement is given in their favour by received and adopted by the shareholders and a the Court.
resolution concerning this will be proposed at the Except for such indemnity provisions in the Companys AGM.
Articles of Association and in the Directors letters of appointment, there are no qualifying third party indemnity provisions in force.
