Business review 2018 Overall Group performance On a continuing basis, revenues for the Group increased 8% to The fundamentals for 391 million reflecting good price and volume growth in the clay 1 brick business.
Adjusted EBITDA increased by 4% to 112 million, our business remain robust, with higher than expected energy costs and the impact of the enhanced maintenance programme in the clay brick business, along with a widely recognised with increased central PLC costs offsetting some of the revenue growth from which we benefited.
As a result, adjusted EPS was need for new housebuilding.
broadly flat at 18.8 pence, on a continuing basis.
The extension of the Performance on a continuing basis Revenue 8% Profit before tax 19% help-to-buy scheme and low interest rates support the 391m 93m demand for new homes.
1 1 Adjusted EBITDA 4% Adjusted EPS 0% 112m 18.8p Despite the positive market backdrop, 2018 presented some challenges for the UK business.
Bad weather in the winter months at the start of the year reduced activity levels for a period and the unexpected increase in spot energy prices as we entered the spring and summer months provided a further headwind.
However, conditions improved in the second half of the year and we benefited from increased production capacity from our new Eclipse clay brick factory.
The commissioning of Eclipse, our new 100 million capacity clay brick plant progressed as planned.
The plant contributed to the volume growth we saw during 2018 and allowed us to increase our market share in the second half of the year.
We continue to broaden the range of products we can manufacture at the site, to service the diverse needs of our customers.
Demand for bricks continued to be very robust in 2018.
Overall, the market consumed c. 2.5 billion bricks in the year, the highest level of consumption since 2007, with 2.1 billion being supplied by domestic production or from existing inventories.
The level of imports increased further year on year to over 0.4 billion bricks, despite the fact production and despatches from domestic producers increased by 0.1 billion in 2018.
Inventory levels also declined slightly as a further 0.1 billion bricks were supplied out of existing stocks across the industry.
Revenues in our concrete business were broadly flat on the prior year due to a slight softening in the rail and civils markets.
On the positive side, we continue to see a gradual increase in market share in concrete roof tiles, reflecting our innovative product portfolio, which offer improved aesthetics and reduced laying costs.
Late in 2018 we took the decision to reorganise our concrete business, simplifying the management structure under a single managing director.
We expect these changes to improve the performance of what is an important platform for driving growth for Ibstock going forward.
Continuing Adjusted EBITDA increased by 4% as higher than expected energy costs, primarily higher gas prices, and costs associated with the enhanced maintenance programme in our clay brick operations partly offset some of the good revenue growth we saw in the year.
Looking forward, we have increased our forward buying of energy to give greater visibility on these costs over the next year or so.
Unallocated costs of 4 million 2017: 3 million include expenses related to operating the plc operations of the Group.
These costs increased year-on-year primarily as a result of the higher employment related expenses incurred during 2018.
1 Alternative performance measures are described in Note 3 to the financial statements.
48 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Linking innovation to a real need MechSlip was developed in direct response to the evolving needs of the construction market.
It is widely viewed as a genuine brick innovation allowing architects and specifiers to use real brick slips with the inspired efficiency and versatility of a mechanically fixed lightweight cladding system.
49 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Business review 2018 continued 50 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Location: The Royals, Lancashire Outlook Product: Marlborough Stock, Weston During 2018, UK brick demand continued to outstrip domestic Red and Leicester Red Bricks and supply capacity which resulted in over 0.4 billion imported bricks Ibstock Kevington Special Shapes.
entering the UK market and further fide-stocking from UK manufacturers.
We were able to take advantage of this robust market environment with increased volumes from our new Eclipse facility, and further benefit to come in 2019 as the first full year of production.
Whilst the political and economic uncertainty from the UKs withdrawal from the EU is unhelpful, and may impact consumer confidence and demand in our end markets in the short term, we believe the fundamentals remain favourable in the medium-term.
The need for new housing is widely recognised by the main political parties and the Help-to-buy scheme has been extended until 2023.
Interest rates remain low and mortgage availability is good, all of which supports affordability and suggests that market fundamentals remain robust.
Therefore, we would hope to see good demand for our products over the medium-term.
We have a solid core business with strong market positioning, focused on the UK.
This provides a good platform for growth, and we hope to deliver further value creation in the coming years from our operational and commercial excellence programmes.
With a strong balance sheet, we also have optionality to invest to drive further growth, both organically and through M&A.
Notwithstanding the current uncertainties in the UK, we see our business as well positioned to deliver further progress in the years to come.
Find out more Customer demand To see our comprehensive in our UK clay and range of products go to www.
com concrete markets remains encouraging, LEADING MANUF LEADING MANUFA ACTURERS OF CTURERS OF W - FAALLING CING BRICKS ROOFINGROOF TILES RAIL & INFRASTRUCTURE - SPECIAL BRICKS - ROOF WINDOW SYSTEMSTROUGHING - WALLING STONEROOFING ACCESSORIES - CABLE THEFT PROTECTION - ARCHITECTURAL - FAADE SYSTEMSMASONRY - CHIMNEY - SOFFITS S - BO - CATCHPITS ARDS, BLOCKS & BASES - LINTELS, SILLS, ARCHES & PADSTONES - INSPECTION CHAMBERS - RETAINING WALLSRETAINING WALLS GARDEN & FLOORING & LANDSCAPING GROUNDWORK - FENCING - CAPS & COPINGS - FLOOR BEAMS - DOOR STEPS with the full benefit of - BOLLARDS - GULLY SURROUNDS - B - PA ALLUSTRADES TH EDGING - SCREED RAILS - URBAN LANDSCAPING BESPOKE SERVICES - ENGRA & BONDING VING, CUTTING - FLOOR BEAM DESIGN - & SUPPL BESPOKE CONCRETE Y SOLUTIONS PRODUCTS... & MUCH MORE the investments we have IBSTOCKPLC.
51 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
