6 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES AND MODEL AND STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS BUSINESS REVIEW DELIVERY AGAINST our STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES This is another strong year of impressive performance and successful delivery of our strategy.
With AUM at a record 28.7bn, up 20%, and both fundraising and capital deployment at record levels, we continue to deliver on our commitments to investors and shareholders BENOT DURTESTE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER We have continued to deliver against our The growing demand for alternative GROW ASSETS strategic objectives and grow our specialist assets makes our markets attractive to UNDER MANAGEMENT asset management business.
However, through rising complexity, greater investor expectations We continue to demonstrate our ability and expanding regulation, the market to develop successful specialist asset is becoming more sophisticated which management strategies, supported by the increases the barriers to entry.
This is strength of our client relationships.
Our Fund accelerating the growth of established and Management Company FMC profits have diversified managers as investors look to grown 56% over the last two years, and streamline their number of relationships, now exceed the profits of our Investment preferring global managers with a strong Company IC.
It is against this backdrop track record, credibility and infrastructure.
that we increased our fundraising target, to We are well positioned to take advantage of an average of 6bn per annum on a three these market trends as an established global year rolling basis, and FMC operating margin manager focused on the specialist end of target, to above 43% during the year.
Alternative asset market Strong growth and diversification in MANAGE PORTFOLIOS INVEST growing strongly assets under management TO MAXIMISE VALUE SELECTIVELY Alternative asset classes continue to be At 7.8bn, fundraising inflows was attractive to institutional investors for stronger than in prior periods.
As 94% of their enhanced returns and diversification our AUM is in closed end funds, our inflows opportunities.
The characteristics that are strongly dependent on when our larger have driven the growth in alternative asset funds come to market resulting in fluctuating classes in recent years remain unchanged.
Another characteristic The increasing wealth of developing nations, of our closed end strategies is the benefit of combined with ageing populations in locked in investor commitments and related developed nations, drives higher institutional fee streams.
Current year fundraising was assets under management.
At the same time, driven by: Senior Debt Partners, our largest bond yields and interest rates remain low strategy, closing its third vintage and raising thereby impacting the returns of traditional 4.2bn through both a co-mingled fund and asset classes.
We expect the conditions segregated mandates.
driving the long term attractiveness of alternative asset classes to continue and The increase in size of our Senior Debt be largely unaffected by market volatility Partners strategy, with assets under and the expected increase in Central Bank management up 68% since 31 March 2017, interest rates.
acts as a differentiator in the European direct lending market as it allows us to offer ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 7 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS a broader range of finance solutions to of our larger funds are raising successor proven strategies to further differentiate mid-market companies.
We upscaled this funds earlier than expected and provides us our offering from other asset managers.
strategy to permit it to make investments confidence that all of our direct investment With average fee rates higher and fees in North American mid-market companies, funds will deploy their available capital within charged on committed capital, from today, thereby leveraging our European success their stated investment periods.
We believe Europe Fund VII will have an immediate with our existing US presence to broaden our origination heavy investment model is impact on operating leverage.
With our UK our direct lending strategy.
We will continue real estate strategy, strategic equity strategy achieved this and been able to increase the to invest appropriately in our investment, and capital markets strategies also expected average fee rate of the strategy.
distribution and infrastructure teams to to raise money in the new financial year, maintain this advantage.
fundraising is expected to be strong, and Since entering the US market in 2014 we weighted to the first half.
have made good progress in establishing Fund returns benefitting from robust We will continue to look for attractive our presence in the worlds largest and portfolio performance opportunities to grow and further expand most competitive market.
Our North Liquidity in the market continues to provide our range of strategies, using our balance America Private Debt mezzanine strategy a healthy environment for realisations.
sheet capital as an enabler and accelerator has closed $1.3bn for its second fund, Where possible, our portfolio managers are of growth.
We have recently hired a team including $150m from the balance sheet, seeking to capitalise on this liquidity and with significant experience in both investing of which $0.9bn was raised in the financial actively realise assets within their portfolio.
and managing high quality infrastructure year.
This makes the fund 71% larger than This enables them to lock in performance assets to help us launch a new European its predecessor, thereby enabling us to and provides the foundations for future infrastructure investment strategy.
In addition, we fundraising success.
In addition, our real estate team are looking closed our US based Strategic Secondaries The portfolios are performing well.
at three new strategies to add to their Fund above target early in the financial year Despite increased market volatility, company portfolio of products.
These strategies and raised a further two US CLOs.
performance and credit fundamentals are all in the early stages of development We have made steady progress in converting remain healthy.
We therefore expect the and there is no guarantee of success, as investor demand into investor commitments performance of our portfolios and level illustrated by our decision to discontinue for our liquid strategies, raising 1.1bn in of realisations to remain robust in the new our attempt to develop an Asia Pacific the period and increasing the profitability financial year.
energy strategy due to a lack of attractive of these scalable strategies.
We had further investment opportunities.
We will continue to Capital management success in closing the third vintage of our keep the market updated on developments real estate senior debt strategy and a first We continued to actively manage the at the appropriate time.
It is essential to the close for the fifth vintage of our real estate Groups sources of financing, extending long term growth of the business that we proprietary capital fund.
debt facilities and lowering pricing where continue to explore new, scalable strategies.
During the financial year the Investing selectively in a Our business model with a disciplined Groups nine bilateral debt facilities were competitive market investment culture and focus on closed renegotiated and consolidated into a single Our increasing number of strategies means end funds underpins earnings by long 500m dual tranche revolving credit facility, that we operate in a diversified investment term, predictable and highly cash with initial maturities of two and three and a market.
Across all of our strategies we generative fee income streams.
This, combined with have seen the investment market remain combined with a proven fund investment our long term private placement programme, competitive as institutions seek to deploy the performance, permits good medium term secures the Groups liquidity by extending increasing amounts of capital raised.
visibility of fundraising and fees, whilst the maturity of our committed facilities, offering protection against short term along with improved terms and a significant In these competitive markets, the focus macroeconomic uncertainty.
The weighted average of our local teams and sector specialists life of drawn debt as at 31 March 2018 was together with their longstanding 3.6 years.
relationships and understanding of the markets in which they operate continues Outlook to provide deal flow and early access to We have made an excellent start to the investment opportunities.
As a result we new fundraising year, including 2.6bn have seen a year of record deployment, for Europe Fund VII.
Europe Fund VII is investing 4.9bn across our direct on track to be significantly larger than its investment strategies, an increase of 21% predecessor fund, and illustrates that where on the prior year.
This means that some the opportunity arises we will seek to scale
