Strategic Report Business Review Sports Fashion Sports Fashion has had another exceptional year with Centre and a third store in the Melbourne area from the operating profits before exceptional items increasing by conversion of the Glue store at Doncaster.
After double performance in these markets is encouraging and it has digit like for like growth in our Sports Fashion stores in given us the confidence to investigate options in other each of the three preceding years and with a relative lack territories.
Indeed, very recently, we have opened our of new footwear models from the principal brands in the first store in South Korea by converting the Hot-T store in second half of the year, we are pleased with the further Gangnam, Seoul.
We would anticipate further progress in like for like growth in stores in the year of 3% across our these markets in the current financial year.
combined fascias with a particularly strong performance from the JD fascia in Europe.
Our principal premium Fashion businesses, Scotts and Tessuti, together with Mainline Menswear, are an important This growth in stores was complemented by growth part of our Group and we continue to invest in both online in excess of 30% on a pan-European basis.
We the stores and multichannel infrastructure to elevate are particularly pleased with the development of our the customer and brand experience.
Elsewhere, we are international websites which are becoming increasingly looking to deliver consistency in our overall proposition in significant in scale and we would expect further significant this sector by consolidating the activities of some of our trading progress from these websites in the new financial smaller businesses.
year as we leverage the benefits from previous investments to create a consistent multichannel ecosystem with all We continue to be pleased with the development of territories having access to a universal stock pool.
our gyms business which offers a cutting edge fitness experience on an excellent value for money basis.
We had We have opened a net 56 stores in mainland Europe 13 gyms open at the end of the year with a further five during the year with new stores in most of our existing opened subsequently.
Our bespoke mix of the industrys European territories.
We expect to maintain the current leading fitness equipment and an exciting range of classes momentum on store openings for JD in mainland Europe has been well received by both customers and the wider through the new financial year with approximately one fitness industry.
new store opening per week on average.
We have also recently opened our first store in Finland and whilst we Given the relative weakness of sterling after the Brexit continue to investigate options to open organically in vote and the impact that this had on cost prices then we other territories, this will be subject to the stores meeting are pleased to have maintained the overall gross margin our usual stringent financial criteria.
in Sports Fashion at a level similar to that in the previous year.
Keeping a high proportion of exclusivity in the Our non JD fascias in Europe have delivered another offer in the core JD fascia helps to maintain margins.
We positive result although the result in the largest of these would hope that sterling has now stabilised against other businesses, Sprinter, has been negatively impacted by one currencies although we would not expect this to lead to off charges of 4.1 million associated with the ongoing any significant margin improvement in the short term.
relocation of the logistics operations to a new and more appropriately sized warehouse in Alicante.
This site has the capacity to service 450 stores initially with land available for Outdoor further development if necessary.
We are pleased to have extended the reach of Sprinter in Spain with the acquisition The Outdoor fascias have made encouraging progress in of the Sport Zone business in Iberia and the Canary Islands the year with composite like for like growth of 3% in stores which is very complementary to Sprinter although there and in excess of 30% online.
Our teams have worked hard will be a drag on profitability in the short term until we to improve their propositions and deliver offers which are start to leverage the synergies of this combination.
This appealing and relevant to their consumers all year round.
process has already started with the Sprinter management It is pleasing that this effort is having positive results.
team having taken on operational responsibility for the Sport Zone stores in Spain.
We are confident that there The overall segment operating profit before exceptional will be further benefits over the longer term in sourcing items was 8.8 million 2017: 1.2 million.
This result is and other commercial operations.
Our secondary fascia stated after a non-trading amortisation charge of 3.7 in France, Chausport, which is typically located in smaller million 2017: nil which represents the start of the retail space and is more biased to footwear than JD, had a amortisation of the value of the intangible assets on the strong first half but a more difficult second half reflecting fascia and various brand names which were created on the the lack of new footwear styles available to it.
Meanwhile, consolidation of the acquisition of Go Outdoors last year.
in Sports Unlimited Retail in the Netherlands, the process to reduce the Perry Sport and Aktiesport store portfolios We continue to plan for further integration of the enlarged to a sustainable size and to trade through the excess and Outdoor business.
We believe that the availability of disjointed stock from our acquisition in the previous year product in the Go Outdoors stores can be enhanced by has been completed.
This process inevitably impacted on more regular deliveries of stock from central warehousing the financial performance in the year but it has left the leveraging off the existing JD logistics and transport business more appropriately positioned to deliver positive infrastructure.
It is our current intention to transfer the Go results in the future.
Outdoors stock into the Groups principal warehouse at Kingsway sometime during the next year.
Further afield, we are pleased with our continued progress in Malaysia with seven JD stores trading in the country at the end of the year and a further two stores opened subsequently.
At the year end, we also had five stores trading as JD in Australia with two stores in each of the Sydney Metropolitan area and Melbourne and one in Gold Peter Cowgill Coast.
Two further stores have opened subsequently with Executive Chairman a third store in the Sydney area at the Macquarie Shopping 16 April 2018 53
