qxp 11 10 2018 12:23 Page 22 B U S I N E S S R E V I E W The aim of the Strategic Report is to provide shareholders with The Company is managed to produce total return and not to the ability to assess how the Company has performed.
To assist produce any particular level of dividend and therefore the level shareholders with this assessment, the Strategic Report sets out of dividend will vary.
the structure and objective of the Company, its investment The Company may employ gearing when the Manager believes it policies and risk management, investment limits and restrictions, is appropriate to do so.
Should the Manager decide to employ performance and key performance indicators, share capital, the gearing, the Company will remain invested in the range of Companys environmental, social and ethical policy, principal risks 90-120% under normal market conditions.
and how the Company seeks to manage those risks and finally its The Board has set no minimum or maximum limits on the number long term viability.
of investments in the portfolio but it is a relatively concentrated portfolio consisting typically of between 50 and 80 investments.
Business Review The assets are managed by an investment manager based in London who is supported by 36 analysts who are based across the Structure and Objective of the Company world.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc the Company It should be noted that historically, emerging market companies is an investment trust company that has a premium listing on the and investments in their shares have shown greater volatility London Stock Exchange.
Its objective is to maximise total return and may be subject to certain political and corporate governance from emerging markets worldwide through a diversified portfolio risks which are not typically associated with more developed of underlying investments.
In seeking to achieve this objective the markets and economies.
Company employs JPMorgan Funds Limited JPMF to actively manage the Companys assets.
The Board has determined an Investment Restrictions and Guidelines investment policy and related guidelines and limits, as described below.
It aims to outperform the MSCI Emerging Markets Index The Board seeks to manage the Companys risk by imposing with net dividends reinvested, in sterling terms.
various investment limits and restrictions: The Company is subject to UK and European legislation and The Company will not invest more than 10% of its total assets regulations including UK company law, Financial Reporting in any one individual stock excluding investment trusts at Standards, the UKLA Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure Guidance and the time of acquisition.
Transparency Rules, Market Abuse Regulation, taxation law and No more than 50% of the Companys assets may be invested the Companys own Articles of Association.
The Company is an in any one region.
investment company within the meaning of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and has been approved by HM Revenue & No more than an aggregate of 25% of the Companys assets Customs as an investment trust for the purposes of Sections 1158 before deducting borrowings may be invested in: and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 for the year ended i securities not listed on any recognised investment 30th June 2013 and future years.
The Directors have no reason to exchange: and ii holdings in which the Companys interest believe that approval will not continue to be obtained.
The amounts to 20% or more of the aggregate of the equity Company is not a close company for taxation purposes.
capital including any capital having an element of equity of any one listed company other than an investment trust which A review of the Companys activities and prospects is given in the has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs or which would Chairmans Statement on pages 6 and 7 and in the Investment qualify for such approval but for the fact that it is not listed.
Managers Report on pages 8 to 14.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Investment Policies and Risk Management Authority, the Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross assets in other UK listed closed-ended investment funds In order to achieve the investment objective and to seek to and will not invest more than 10% of its gross assets in manage risk, the Company invests in a well diversified spread of companies that themselves may invest more than 15% of countries, industries and companies.
The Company invests gross assets in UK listed closed-ended investment funds.
primarily in quoted securities in emerging stock markets but, where necessary or appropriate in the absence of suitable quoted The Company does not normally enter into derivative securities, it may invest in unquoted securities.
It may invest in transactions, other than short term forward currency other collective investment schemes, but usually only where legal contracts to manage working capital requirements and to do restrictions prevent direct investment by foreign investors or so requires prior Board approval.
prudent diversification can best be achieved in this way.
The These limits and restrictions may be varied by the Board at any Company conducts its affairs so as to maintain approved time at its discretion.
investment trust status in the UK.
qxp 11 10 2018 12:23 Page 23 B U S I N E S S R E V I E W Compliance with the Boards investment restrictions and Share price discount to net asset value NAV per share guidelines is monitored continuously by the Manager and is The Board has a share repurchase policy which seeks to reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
address imbalances in supply of and demand for the Companys shares within the market.
This should help to Performance reduce the volatility and absolute level of the discount to NAV per share at which the Companys shares trade in relation to In the year to 30th June 2018, the Company produced a total its peers in the sector.
In the year to 30th June 2018, the return to shareholders of 7.0% 2017: 27.3% and a total return Companys shares traded at a discount to the capital only net on net assets of 8.3% 2017: 23.4%.
This compares with the asset value per share between 9.6% and 13.2%, averaging total return on the Companys benchmark index of 6.5% 2017: 11.4% over the year.
At 30th June 2018, the value of the Companys investment portfolio was 1,189.1 million 2017: 1,109.3 million.
Discount Performance The Investment Managers Report on pages 8 to 14 includes 2 a review of developments during the year as well as information 4 on investment activity within the Companys portfolio.
6 Total Return, Revenue and Dividends 8 Gross total return for the year amounted to 106.3 million 10 2017: 227.3 million and net total return after deducting 12 management fee, other administrative expenses, finance costs 14 and taxation amounted to 92.0 million 2017: 214.5 million.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets share price discount to capital only net asset The Directors recommend a final dividend of 12.5p per share value per share.
payable on 29th November 2018 to holders on the register at the Ongoing charges close of business on 26th October 2018.
This distribution will The ongoing charges represent the Companys management amount to 15.5 million.
The revenue reserve after payment of fee and all other operating expenses excluding finance costs, the final dividend will amount to 13.6 million.
expressed as a percentage of the average daily net assets during the year.
The ongoing charges for the year ended Key Performance Indicators KPIs 30th June 2018 were 1.02% 2017: 1.07%.
The Board reviews The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and assess each year an analysis which shows a comparison of the the performance of the Company.
The principal KPIs are: Companys ongoing charges and its main expenses with those of its peers.
Performance against the benchmark index This is the most important KPI by which performance is Share Capital judged.
Information on the Companys performance is given in the Chairmans Statement and the Investment Managers The Directors have, on behalf of the Company, the authority both Report.
Also, please refer to the graphs on page 15. to repurchase shares in the market for cancellation, or holding in Treasury, and to issue new shares for cash or from Treasury on Performance against the Companys peers behalf of the Company.
The principal objective is to maximise total return relative to A total of 292,498 shares nominal value 73,125 were the benchmark.
However, the Board also monitors the repurchased into Treasury during the year under review, for performance relative to a broad range of investment trust a total consideration of 2,479,000.
This represented 0.2% of the companies, open ended funds and exchange traded funds.
shares in issue at the start of the financial year.
The Company did Performance attribution not allot any new shares for cash.
Since the year end no shares The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to assess have been repurchased into Treasury.
how the Company achieved its performance relative to its Resolutions to renew the authorities to issue new shares and to benchmark index, i. e. to understand the impact on the repurchase shares for cancellation and or for holding in Treasury Companys relative performance of the various components will be put to shareholders for approval at the forthcoming such as asset allocation and stock selection.
Details of the Annual General Meeting.
attribution analysis for the year ended 30th June 2018 are given in the Investment Managers Report on page 11.
The full text of these Resolutions is set out in the Notice of Meeting on pages 75 and 76.
