LondonMetric Property Plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Responsible Business Responsible Business addresses three key areas of environment, people and our other stakeholders.
It is embedded into our investment, asset management, development and corporate activities.
Our approach is delivering Responsible Business benefits Our Key Responsible Business risks and potential impact We continue to build on our Environment Stakeholders Responsible Business foundations Quality, desirability Management of our supply chain is insufficient and environmental leading tobusiness interruption, accidents, and ensure that appropriate targets reputational risk or breach of law standards of our assets are set and aligned with our deteriorate, leading Reliance on a few employees, insufficient :M[XWV[QJTMh ][QVM[[ WJRMK Q M[ to higher voids, lossof employee development anddiversity reduces income and reduced Martin McGann our competitive advantage Finance Director liquidity for our assets Poor external stakeholder relations impact negatively onour reputation and ability to undertake business activities Overview Poor Responsible Business focus reduces our We are committed to improving access to capital and debt markets our Responsible Business disclosure, mitigating sustainability risks and capturing environmental and Our Responsible Business objectives stakeholder related opportunities.
Every year we set targets to meet our Minimise the Empower, develop and increase wellbeing and Responsible Business objectives.
environmental diversity of our people impact of our business Progress is monitored at Working Enhance our external stakeholder relationships, and maximise the Group meetings held several including those with occupiers, supply chains, efficiencies of our times a year and attended by key investors and local communities assets in conjunction business representatives, one Board with occupiers member and JLL, our external real estate sustainability advisor.
Overall performance is reported to Responsible Business embedded in our activities the Board at regular intervals.
For the full Responsible A changing business Business report 2018 see www.
com LondonMetric has changed signicantly, moving away from offices and multi-let retail parks into single let and modern distribution.
Responsible Consequently, our carbon footprint Investment hasfallen signicantly, as has the Generating portfolios operational requirements sustainable value and our employee numbers.
Therefore, combined with our responsible activities, risks from Responsible Business have been reduced signicantly.
However, we continue to monitor and address Responsible Business all potential risks and look at all Managing stakeholder relationships and opportunities that can benefit our risk well stakeholders and the Company.
Responsible Responsible New targets for 2019 have been Development Asset Management set and are detailed in the full Future-proong Responding to Responsible Business report for 2018. our assets occupier needs Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 41 3Ma IKPQM MUMV [ IVL N]Z PMZ ZMKWOVQ QWV WN W]Z XZWOZM[[ Our Responsible Business activities have delivered further improvements and have increased our GRESB score which we continue to view as our most applicable sustainability benchmark.
Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB Awards Achieved 69% score in the 2017 Performance in 2017 GRESB Survey % GRESB Green Star and survey and maintained our green star 100 status.
This is up from 34% in 2014, 50% 2017 maintained EPRA sBPR in 2015 and66% in 2016 Gold award In 2017, we achieved further 2017 improvements particularly around 2014 Targets 2016 to 2018 management and monitoring 2014 Further actions undertaken to 50 targets achieved maintain status in the upcoming % orprogressed.
2018survey, particularly on 94 stakeholder engagement New targets set and construction for2019 0 EPC rating of E orabove on 0 50 100 assets forMEES purposes Implementation and measurement LondonMetric Peer group % Property 100 See page 42 for further details EPRA Sustainability Best Practice FTSE4Good Recommendations sBPR BREEAM Very Good certication Framework for Assessment for inclusion in the oncompleted developments reporting standardised FTSE4Good Index environmental data In 2017, our most recent assessment, For first time in 2015, we scored 2.7outof5.0 m sq ft we reported in a format This is a significant improvement required by the EPRA sBPR onthe 2015 score of 1.4 andreceived special commendation for improvements made Annual carbon footprint In 2017, we were one of only tenlisted UK companies to receive % a Gold award absolute Future reporting % -17 like for like As investor scrutiny of our Responsible Disclosures TCFD, established by the Business activities and reporting Financial Stability Board.
grows further, we are expanding our While voluntary, it is designed to reporting to external benchmarks.
help companies report decisionISS launched their first environmental useful climate-related information.
and social survey this year and we We intend to further align our responded recently to their questions.
reporting with TCFD guidance and report on the resilience of our business Furthermore, we are reviewing the and portfolio to climate-related risks.
framework introduced by the Task Force on Climate-related Financial For the full Responsible Business report 2018 see www.
com Management and policy LondonMetric Property Plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 -V QZWVUMV Through our investment, asset management Energy consumption reduction MWh and development activities we look to minimise 9,056 the environmental impact of our business and maximise the efficiencies of our assets.
6,814 6,393 The environmental performance of our portfolio has signicantly reduced our energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.
Our landlord controlled 3,190 energy consumption for last year, excluding the contribution from our sold Marlow office asset, was 357,890 kWh.
This equates to the consumption of around 20 mid-sized homes and compares against an equivalent of 722 homes in 2015.
Only 8% of the portfolio by area has landlord controlled energy supply and this limits our ability to further reduce our energy consumption.
2015 2016 2017 2018 However, we continue to look at ways of reducing our consumption and the 2018 energy consumption excluding Marlow asset efficiency of our assets to reduce the energy consumption of our occupiers.
Investing Our investment process involves the careful % of portfolio with EPC rating assessment of environmental risks.
Our activities ofA-C have shifted the portfolio into less operationally intensive, single let, newer and higher quality assets.
78% 74% 100% of assets are rated E or above and, as shown opposite, assets with an EPC of A-C have risen to 67% 78% of the portfolio up from 59% in 2015.
One asset representing 0.4% of the portfolio is rated 59% F and is related to a recent purchase where there is a clear near term action plan in place with the occupier for significant energy improvements.
2015 2016 2017 2018 Asset Managing We are delivering energy efficiencies and sourcing cleaner energy through various assetmanagement initiatives: Car park lighting: We upgraded LED lighting Recharge points: We have installed electric at two further retail assets in the year.
vehicle recharge points on four assets and Together with previous installations, this is will add further installations in 2018 helping our like for like energy reductions Smart metering and Green sourcing: For Occupier Energy Audits: We have landlord consumption, we are investigating undertaken audits on six of our distribution remote metering to improve the tracking of assets which has so far resulted in five of our our energy usage.
We will also increase the occupiers self funding internal LED lighting proportion of supply that has a green tariff.
A further four audits are planned During the year, we put in place a green or underway and we will look at further tariff at our office in Marlow, an asset that audits on a priority basis we have now sold Renewable energy: Following ongoing Tenant Energy Data: We continue to engagement with our tenants and feasibility collect data on our occupiers energy studies, 1.9MW of solar PV capacity has consumption and have increased our been installed across 20% of our assets.
energy data capture to cover 34% of We continue to engage on progressing our portfolio further installations with our occupiers and will also look at generating renewable landlord supply Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Developing Development is a significant activity for us and Percentage of portfolio rated we carry out our development work responsibly BREEAM Very Good and give proper consideration to environmental, sustainable and social matters.
We continued to integrate a range of sustainable features into our developments including solar PVs, roof lights, electric vehicle recharge points, water % conservation and ecology.
28 BREEAM rating Up from 10% in 2015 The majority of our developments have a minimum certication standard of BREEAM Very Good.
We completed five developments totalling 0.6m sq ft, 88% of which were BREEAM Very Good or better.
The proportion of the portfolio rated at least BREEAM Very Good is now 28%.
First BREEAM Excellent Development in Crawley 1 09,000 sq ft development Our contractor requirements Contractor achievements onprojects completed in year We have worked hard to implement robust processes to ensure that our contractors uphold our high standards and minimise the environmental Silver award impact from developments.
from Considerate Constructors All of our contractors adhere to Promoting local atour Ipswich development our Responsible Development employment opportunities 100% compliance Requirements checklist, which Fair remuneration for workers sets minimum requirements for our with our Checklist We continue to monitor compliance developments on areas including: Zero reportable accidents and look at ways of improving our Health & Safety management or incidents on 245,000 worked hours contractors performance.
Next year, Compliance with the Considerate in addition to our four project health 93% of all waste diverted Constructors Scheme & safety audits per annum, we intend from landll to fully review one project with a Environmental impact monitoring 100% on time and on budget particular focus on local sourcing, Management and reporting modern slavery and minimum wage.
for development of progress Solar PV installation in Dagenham kw See page 07 for the fullcase study LondonMetric Property Plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 -V QZWVUMV IT XMZNWZUIVKM PQOPTQOP [ NWZ In 2015, we established a baseline and benchmarks for measurement of our portfolios environmental performance.
Since then, we have signicantly reduced our energy consumption and GHG emissions, enabling us to save over 0.5million in energy costs and materially reduce our CRC costs.
Energy consumption Greenhouse gas GHG emissions !
MWh tCO e Down 50% on an absolute basis Down 53% on an absolute basis This large reduction is due to the sale of our Marlow asset in the The sale of our office in Marlow has helped to reduce our absolute year and a reduction in like for like landlord controlled energy emissions by 53%.
As a result, our CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme 1 consumption electricity and natural gas by 7% compared to 2017. liabilities are estimated to have reduced by c. 50% from last years cost of 38,748.
We have met our annual target to reduce the portfolios energy consumption by 4% on a like for like basis, and therefore, continue 1 On a like for like basis, GHG emissions were down by 17% as a result to make good progress towards our longer term target to reduce of energy consumption reductions on the portfolio and ongoing energy intensity by 20% against a 2015 baseline, by 31 March 2022. decarbonisation of the National Grid.
We have exceeded our annual target to reduce our like for like GHG emissions by 4%.
Therefore, we continue to make good progress towards our longer term target to reduce GHG emissions intensity by 20% against a 2015 baseline, by 31 March 2022.
1 Like for like percentages exclude energy consumption of the office asset in Marlow which was sold in the year Mandatory GHG emissions reporting 2017 18 2016 17 Direct greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of CO2e combustion of fuel and operation facilities Scope 1 195 432 Scope 2 location-based 811 1,687 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of CO e 2 purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling Scope 2 market-based 881 1,937 Total carbon footprint in tonnes of CO e Total scope 1 & 2 1,006 2,119 2 Scope 1 and 2 intensity tonnes of CO2e per m net income after administration costs Scope 1 and 2 intensity 15 34 Data qualifying notes We have reported on all of the emission sources required under The location-based method uses an average emission factor for the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports the entire national grid on which electricity consumption occurs.
These include the emissions associated with the Location-based emissions factors are taken from the latest UK energy used by our corporate head office and the landlord-controlled Government DEFRA conversion factors for company reporting 2017. energy from our entire investment portfolio.
The market-based method uses an emissions factor that is specic We have used the main requirements of ISO14064 Part 1 and the GHG to the electricity which has been purchased, or where not available Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised a national residual-mix factor is applied.
Market-based emissions Edition for our methodology, using energy consumption data from factors are taken from the latest Association of Issuing Bodies European our owned and occupied properties.
We have chosen to report Residual Mixes 2016. greenhouse gas emissions under our operational control.
These sources The total carbon footprint and emissions intensities have been fall within our consolidated financial statements.
We do not have calculated using location-based Scope 2 emissions.
responsibility for any emissions sources that are not included in our Data for the year to 31 March 2017 has been restated, including consolidated financial statements.
associated intensity metrics, as additional energy consumption The guidance on the reporting of Scope 2 GHG emissions under the datahas been obtained since the previous report was published.
Greenhouse Gas Protocol was updated in 2015 and we are now Scope 1 data does not include refrigerant emissions as these have required to report two different values to reect the location-based been determined to not be material represent 2% of total emissions : and market-based emissions resulting from purchased electricity.
For full environmental performance reporting see the Responsible Business 2018 report at www.
com Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Stakeholders We recognise the importance of retaining and attracting a diverse and knowledgeable group of employees.
Our people Inclusion & We have a at management structure with clear responsibilities.
We strongly Our employees encourage input on decision making from all staff and wide participation communicate The Company is highly focused with in committee meetings.
There is strong collaboration across teams which enables good sharing of information and ideas.
There are regular strategy 25 employees, four Executive Directors and performance updates to employees from Executive Directors.
and seven Non Executive directors.
During the year, we implemented more exible working arrangements Since merger in 2013, employee and Modern covering dress code, holiday buy back, improved systems to enable home Director numbers have fallen by 28% working working and a core hours policy.
despite a 51% increase in the value practices of our assets.
This reects improved Employee remuneration is aligned to personal and company performance Fair efficiencies and lower operational with longer term incentivisation plans in place that replicate arrangements remuneration for Executive Directors.
All employees receive a pension contribution of 10% of requirements of our portfolio.
salary and access to advice on pensions, free medical insurance and advice, childcare and cycle to work vouchers.
Culture and approach We promote diversity across knowledge, experience, gender, ageand Diversity We have successfully attracted and ethnicity.
Whilst overall female employee representation is good, we and equal retained a talented, hard working recognised that we needed to specically promote greater gender diversity.
opportunity With only one female board member we were pleased to appoint Suzanne and loyal team, something which Avery as a Non-Executive Director in the year, increasing our female board we recognise as vital to the business.
This is reected in our low annual Furthermore, and recognising the significant diversity imbalance in the voluntary staff turnover rate which real estate sector, we joined the Real Estate Balance group to further our promotion of diversity both internally and externally.
We intend to publish has averaged 6% since merger.
We believe this success is a result An annual appraisal process is undertaken where training needs and requests Employee of our: are discussed.
We actively encourage training and, over the year, our staff development undertook 758 hours of training, some of which related to a senior employees Culture of empowerment, inclusion, MBA programme.
We also undertook Responsible Business training across openness and teamwork all of our employees and encourage participation in Young Property Professionals groups.
Fair and performance We continued to offer secondment and work placement opportunities and, based remuneration over the year, 7 people participated in this programme.
Small number of staff, which allows In 2016, we formalised a policy to provide and maintain safe and healthy Health & a exible and individual approach working conditions for all employees, providing appropriate equipment, Safety to addressing staffing needs operational processes and safe systems of work.
During the year, we undertook workplace assessments and an external review of our office and four developments.
How we are improving During the year, we reviewed our office arrangements and have decided Wellbeing As a Company with a small number to reduce our office space and undertake a major refurbishment to improve of employees, some policies and employee facilities and wellbeing.
As part of the refurbishment plans, a procedures that are applicable wellbeing study has been undertaken and we carried out a wider employee survey to identify other improvements as well as to gauge overall employee to larger organisations might not satisfaction.
Once these works are complete, we will undertake another be appropriate for us.
However, employee survey to measure improvements.
as the way people work continues to change, we recognise the importance of continually improving Employee gender diversity our approach to managing our people and attracting new people.
Directors Senior managers Employees The number of persons of The number of persons of each The number of persons Over the year, we have introduced each sex who were Directors sex who were senior managers of each sex who were various initiatives to focus on how we of the Company: of the Company other than employees of the Company: identied as Directors : can provide more exible working, improve diversity and general wellbeing.
The table opposite highlights key arrangements in place for our employees and the 2 9 2 6 15 21 improvements that we have made and plan to make.
LondonMetric Property Plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Stakeholders External relationships across all of our activities are critical to the success of our business.
Occupiers Developing our occupier relationships is a keyfocus forus.
Weengage with occupiers across all of our activitiesto providereal estate solutions that deliver mutually beneficial outcomes.
These relationships are more important than ever and, whilst occupancy of 98% suggests strong levels of occupier contentment, we continue to engage regularly through events, meetings and surveys to ensure we keep close to our customers.
Customer satisfactionsurvey We engaged with several occupiers to discuss their feedback and have met face In February 2018, we undertook our biennial to face with one of those occupiers.
We received 4WVLWV5M ZQK IZM MZa a response from nearly 70%, representing Future plans half of our income, which was a signicantly XZWIK Q M TWWSQVO W We expect to increase the frequency higher response than in 2016.
We scored []XXWZ W]Z J][QVM[[ of our customer survey and will look to an average of 8 10 for satisfaction with further enhance our customer relationship our properties and 8.5 10 for how well we PMa IZM ZMIK Q M W W]Z management and monitoring processes.
needs and commercial Recognising that all survey responses noted Whilst scoring methodology was different a desire to work on sustainable property in thinking, which sets to our 2016 survey, the results suggested a solutions, we will continue to engage PMU IXIZ broadly similar overall scoring with a good with occupiers on energy efficiency level of satisfaction.
Property Director A keyLondonMetric occupier Contractors & Suppliers Delivering developments and asset services on time, on budget and in adherence with our high standards isa key priority.
Our procurement policy Contractors In 2015, we implemented a policy to ensure In conjunction with our external project appropriate supply chain and procurement managers, our development team ensures standards on areas such as labour: human that we select high quality and robust rights: health and safety: resource: pollution contractors who have a proven track risk and community.
We regularly review the financial required to adhere to our Responsible robustness of these contractors and their Development Requirements as detailed on performance on our projects.
LondonMetric has a page 43 and, for suppliers of asset services, Our development team monitors progress KWTTIJWZI Q M IXXZWIKP through our Managing Agents policies.
of developments and tracks all elements with its supply chain of the projects including sub contracted Modern Slavery works.
We stay close to our contractors and, and we were pleased to Our exposure to human rights risks for example, during the year we visited PI M I[[Q[ ML PMU WV including modern slavery and human one of our main contractors to undertake trafficking is deemed limited given our ZM QM QVO WVM WN PMQZ a more detailed review of their systems UK only activities.
Our procurement policy and processes.
SMa KWV ZIK WZ[ requires our supply chain to adhere to numerous standards including: paying Duncan Berry Suppliers a fair wage, complying with Human RPS Group Whilst spend on asset services is small, we Rights and Labour Rights Legislation, monitor the compliance of our suppliers and investigating their supply chains.
against our Managing Agents policies.
For developments, contractors are During the year, we undertook a high level expected to demonstrate adherence to review of our top five suppliers and were these requirements.
Our Modern Slavery satisfied that they were compliant.
Act Statement is available on our website and no human rights concerns arose withinthe year.
Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47 Local communities We recognise the importance of supporting Local community stakeholders our local communities and engaging with Authorities: We work hard to develop our all local stakeholders.
Over the last few local authority relationships.
For example, years, we have established a Communities we have worked in partnership with Policy and a Charity and Communities Bedford Council for over three years Working Group.
We aim to maximise on ourBedford development which is the local benets that our activities estimated to create 1,000 permanent jobs.
bring through: Residents: As necessary, and as carried Permanent jobs created Investment into the infrastructure of those out recently at our Aldi development communities, typically involving the in Weymouth, we undertake public regeneration of land and derelict sites consultations to inform local residents Creation of construction and t out jobs ofour plans.
We typically by occupiers on our Throughout our developments, we use local contractors recent developments communicate project progress through Creation of modern buildings and facilities contractor newsletters and we task our t for the future needs of shopping contractors to minimise local disruption.
Community donations Long term commitments from our Post development, we maintain active occupiers, who typically sign leases for dialogue with residents to address any periods of10-15 years oftheir concerns.
Creation of permanent jobs by our 110k Businesses: We actively engage with local occupiers, most of which are local business and look to support events in Charitable donations Our ongoing involvement at our conjunction with local authorities.
and local community properties by funding of local events and facilities.
For example, we arranged For example, we presented at a recent spend in 2018 several community days in Leeds during event held at our new distribution the year warehouse in Stoke.
The Make it event was organised by the local authority where Charitable giving, where we support a they presented to businesses on their number of local causes.
We also support Local Plan for the areas long term growth.
other organisations such as LandAid, Over 90 people attended the event.
and match employee charity giving and events.
In the year, charitable donations totalled 25,170 See case study on page 07 for local community Community day at our asset in Leeds involvement at our Dagenham development Investors and joint ventures We value our good relationships with 2018 Responsible Business investors and debt providers to ensure full investorsurvey access to capital markets.
Over the year, as Undertaken across half of our share covered in detail on pages 72 to 73, we met holders with feedback received from with over 200 investors.
20%of the register As shareholder expectations on corporate Responsible Business disclosure, targets governance and sustainability increase, and activities were considered good we undertook our first Responsible Business andof an appropriate standard Investors seen survey of investors and met with members Recognition that CSR expectations for of the 30% Club Investor Group on diversity a company of our size are lower than matters.
We have incorporated feedback isexpected of larger corporates 209 from the survey into setting of our 2019 There was particular emphasis on sustainability targets.
We will also look at ensuring that we have good supply Investor survey on green nancing solutions.
chain monitoring, continue to perform Responsible Business In addition, we enjoy strong relationships well against GRESB and that we continue with our JV partners, principally at our MIPP to value and improve our human Good standard and DFS Joint Ventures, and continue to capital and develop a diverse group work closely with our partners.
