JPM Mercantile pp19 35. qxp 11 04 2018 11:05 Page 19 Strategic Report continued Investment Restrictions and Guidelines Business Review - The Company invests in medium and smaller companies which The aim of the Strategic Report is to provide shareholders with the are listed mainly on the London Stock Exchange.
ability to assess how the Directors have performed their duty to - At time of purchase the maximum exposure to any individual promote the success of the Company during the year under stock is 8% of total assets.
The Company may hold five positions review.
To assist shareholders with this assessment, the Strategic of up to 8%, totalling no more than 40% of the Companys gross Report sets out the structure and objective of the Company, assets.
Thereafter a maximum of 3% of gross assets may be held its investment policies and risk management, investment in any one investment.
restrictions and guidelines, performance, total return, revenue and dividends, key performance indicators, share capital, Board - Capital growth is emphasised, with long-term dividend growth diversity, discount, employees, social, community and human at least in line with inflation.
rights issues, principal risks and how the Company seeks - Gearing may be used when appropriate in order to increase to manage those risks and finally its long term viability.
Such gearing will be Objective and Strategy of the Company long-term in nature and will operate within a range of 10% The Mercantile Investment Trust plc is an investment trust net cash to 20% geared.
company that has a premium listing on the London Stock - The Company does not invest more than 15% of its gross Exchange.
Its objective is to achieve long term capital growth from assets in other listed closed-ended investment funds a portfolio of UK medium and smaller companies.
The Company including investment trusts.
employs JPMorgan Funds Limited JPMF or the Manager to actively manage its assets.
The Board has determined an - The Company will not invest more than 10% of assets in investment policy and related guidelines and limits, as described companies that themselves may invest more than 15% of below.
gross assets in UK listed investment companies.
Structure of the Company Performance The Company is subject to UK and European legislation and In the year to 31st January 2018, the Company produced a total regulations including UK company law, UK Financial Reporting return to shareholders of 25.5% and a total return on net assets Standards, the UK Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure Guidance and of 25.5%.
This compares with the return on the Companys Transparency Rules, taxation law and the Companys own Articles benchmark of 14.6%.
At 31st January 2018, the value of the of Association.
The Company is an investment company within Companys investment portfolio was 2,090.6 million.
the meaning of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and has The Investment Managers Report on pages6to10 includes been approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust a review of developments during the year as well as information for the purposes of Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation on investment activity within the Companys portfolio.
As a result the Company is not liable for taxation on Total Return, Revenue and Dividends capital gains.
The Directors have no reason to believe that Gross total return for the year amounted to 433.1 million 2017: approval will not continue to be retained.
The Company is not 101.6 million and net total return after deducting interest, a close company for taxation purposes.
management expenses and taxation amounted to 413.2 million A review of the Companys activities and prospects is given in the 2017: 81.7 million.
Distributable income for the year amounted Chairmans Statement on pages3to5, and in the Investment to 51.3 million 2017: 49.3 million.
The Directors have declared Managers Report on pages6to10.
quarterly interim dividends totalling 53.0p 2017: 46.0p per ordinary share for the year which totalled 43.8 million 2017: Investment Policies and Risk Management 41.4 million.
The year end revenue reserve after allowing for In order to achieve its objective and to seek to manage risk, the these dividends will amount to 44.5 million 2017: 36.7 million.
Companys business model is to invest in a diversified portfolio and it employs a Manager with a strong focus on research that Key Performance Indicators KPIs enables it to identify what it believes to be the most attractive The Companys objective is to achieve long term capital growth stocks in the market.
from a portfolio of UK medium and smaller companies.
In order to monitor performance against this objective, the Board uses a The Board has sought to manage the Companys risk by imposing number of financial KPIs to monitor and assess the performance of various investment limits and restrictions.
These limits and the Company.
The principal KPIs are: restrictions may be varied at any time by the Board at its discretion.
Performance against the benchmark index This is the most important KPI by which performance is judged.
Please refer to the graph headed Ten Year Performance on page12.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 19 JPM Mercantile pp19 35. qxp 11 04 2018 11:05 Page 20 Strategic Report continued Performance against the Companys peers A resolution to renew the authority to repurchase shares will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The principal objective is to achieve capital growth relative to the benchmark.
The Board also monitors the performance The Company did not issue any shares during the year and has not relative to a broad range of competitor funds.
issued any shares since the year end.
Dividends Board Diversity The Company pays four quarterly dividends each year and the At 31st January 2018, there were five male Directors and one Boards aim is to achieve long term dividend growth at least female Director on the Board.
The Company has no employees.
The Boards policy on diversity is set out on page28.
Performance attribution Discount The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to assess The Board monitors closely the level of the Companys share price how the Company achieved its performance relative to its discount to net asset value.
During the year the discount increased benchmark index, i. e. to understand the impact on the from 12.5% to 12.8% on the basis of a cum income calculation Companys relative performance of the various components with debt at par.
Several different methodologies are currently such as stock selection and sector allocation.
Details of the employed by different bodies to assess net asset value and attribution analysis for the year ended 31st January 2018 are consequently different conclusions are drawn which can be given in the Investment Managers Report on page6.
The Company reports its performance Financial Highlights, Share price discount to net asset value NAV per share Chairmans Statement, Investment Managers report etc.
to The Board operates a share repurchase programme that seeks shareholders on a cum income NAV with debt at par value basis.
to enhance value and address imbalances in supply and For the NAV stated in the Companys monthly factsheets and on its demand of the Companys shares within the market and website, debt is valued at its fair value.
thereby reduce the volatility and absolute level of the discount to NAV at which the Companys shares trade.
Please refer to The AIC, for its industry statistics, stipulates the NAV as the graph headed Discount History on page12.
Shareholder Funds, both capital and income, expressed as an amount per ordinary share.
Shareholder Funds are the net value of Ongoing Charges total assets having deducted prior charges at their fair not par The ongoing charges represent the Companys management value.
The AIC does not however prescribe a methodology for the fee and all other operating expenses, excluding finance costs, basis of calculation of fair value.
Income for the current financial expressed as a percentage of the average of the daily net year is included dividends are deducted from the income value on assets during the year.
The ongoing charges for the year the day that shares go ex-dividend.
This is equivalent to the cum ended 31st January 2018 were 0.45% 2017: 0.48%.
The income NAV with debt at fair value as calculated and published by Board reviews each year an analysis which shows a comparison ourselves, via the Regulatory News Service, on a daily basis.
of the Companys ongoing charges and its main expenses with The fair value of the Companys debentures is calculated using those of its peers.
a discounted cash flow technique which applies the yield from Share Capital a similarly dated gilt to the debentures issued by the Company and adds to that a margin based on the five year average for the During the year, the Company repurchased a total of 5,080,380 AA Barclays Sterling Corporate Bond spread.
shares, amounting to 5.8% of issued share capital at the beginning of the year.
Of those shares nil 2017: 1,507,822 were Using this calculation, i. e. NAV cum income with debt at fair value, repurchased for a total consideration of nil 2017: 25,073,000 the discount would be shown to have increased over the course of and cancelled.
The balance of 5,080,380 shares were repurchased the year from 8.6% to 9.5%.
for a total consideration of 98,559,000 and held in Treasury.
As the shares were repurchased at a discount to the underlying net asset value NAV they enhanced the NAV of the remaining shares.
The Company has repurchaseda further 1,239,000 shares since the year end as at 9th April 2018.
20 JPM Mercantile pp19 35. qxp 11 04 2018 11:05 Page 21 Strategic Report continued Employees, Social, Community and Human Rights Criminal Corporate Offence Issues The Company has zero tolerance for tax evasion.
Shares in the Company are purchased through intermediaries or brokers, The Company has no employees.
Since many of its functions are therefore no funds flow directly into the Company.
As the carried out by employees of the Manager and its affiliate, Company has no employees, the Boards focus is to ensure that JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM, it notes the the risk of the Companys service providers facilitating tax evasion JPMAM policy statements in respect of social and environmental is also low.
To this end it seeks assurance from its service providers issues.
that effective policies and procedures are in place to prevent this.
Social, Environmental and Human Rights Principal Risks JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially The Directors confirm that they have carried out a robust responsible manner.
Although our priority at all times is the best assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including economic interests of our clients, we recognise that, increasingly, those that would threaten its business model, future performance, non-financial issues such as social and environmental factors viability, solvency or liquidity.
have the potential to impact the share price, as well as the reputation of companies.
Specialists within JPMAMs With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has drawn up a risk environmental, social and governance ESG team are tasked matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
These key with assessing how companies deal with and report on social and risks fall broadly under the following categories: environmental risks and issues specific to their industry.
Investment and Strategy: An inappropriate investment JPMAM is also a signatory to the United Nations Principles of strategy, for example sector allocation or the level of gearing, Responsible Investment, which commits participants to six may lead to underperformance against the Companys principles, with the aim of incorporating ESG criteria into their benchmark index and peer companies, resulting in the processes when making stock selection decisions and promoting Companys shares trading on a wider discount.
Our detailed approach to how we implement the manages these risks by diversification of investments through principles is available on request.
its investment restrictions and guidelines which are monitored The Manager has implemented a policy which seeks to restrict and reported on by the Manager.
JPMF provides the Directors investments in securities issued by companies that have been with timely and accurate management information, including identified by an independent third party provider as being performance data and attribution analyses, revenue estimates, involved in the manufacture, production or supply of cluster liquidity reports and shareholder analyses.
The Board monitors munitions, depleted uranium ammunition and armour and or the implementation and results of the investment process with anti-personnel mines.
Shareholders can obtain further details the Investment Managers, who attend all Board meetings, and on the policy by contacting the Manager.
reviews data which show statistical measures of the Companys risk profile.
The Investment Managers employ the Companys Greenhouse Gas Emissions gearing tactically, within a strategic range set by the Board.
The Company has no premises, consumes no electricity, gas or Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as an diesel fuel and consequently does not have a measurable carbon investment trust, the Company must comply with Section footprint.
JPMAM is a signatory to Carbon Disclosure Project.
1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Section 1158.
Details JPMorgan Chase is a signatory to the Equator Principles on of the Companys approval are given under Structure of the managing social and environmental risk in project finance.
Were the Company to breach Section The Modern Slavery Act 2015 the MSA 1158, it might lose investment trust status and, as a The MSA requires companies to prepare a slavery and human consequence, gains within the Companys portfolio could be trafficking statement for each financial year of the organisation.
subject to Capital Gains Tax.
The Section 1158 qualification As the Company has no employees and does not supply goods and criteria are monitored continually by JPMF and the results services, the MSA does not apply directly to it.
The MSA reported to the Board each month.
The Company must also requirements more appropriately relate to JPMF and JPMAM.
comply with the provisions of the Companies Act and, since its JPMorgans statement on the MSA can be found on the following shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, the UKLA website: https: www.
com corporate CorporateListing Rules and Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules Responsibility document modern-slavery-act.
A breach of the Companies Act could result in the The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 21 JPM Mercantile pp19 35. qxp 11 04 2018 11:05 Page 22 Strategic Report continued Company and or the Directors being fined or the subject of Long Term Viability criminal proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules or DTRs Taking account of the Companys current position, the principal could result in the Companys shares being suspended from risks that it faces and their potential impact on its future listing which in turn would breach Section 1158.
The Board development and prospects, the Directors have assessed the relies on the services of its Company Secretary, JPMF, to ensure prospects of the Company, to the extent that they are able to do compliance with The Companies Act and the UKLA Listing so, over the next five years.
They have made that assessment by Rules and DTRs.
considering those principal risks, the Companys investment objective and strategy, the investment capabilities of the Manager Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: Details of and the current outlook for the UK economy and equity market.
the Companys compliance with Corporate Governance best practice, including information on relations with shareholders, In determining the appropriate period of assessment the Directors are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on had regard to their view that, given the Companys objective of pages 27 to 31. achieving long term capital growth, shareholders should consider the Company as a long term investment proposition.
This is Operational and Cyber Crime: Disruption to, or failure of, consistent with advice provided by investment advisers, that JPMFs accounting, dealing or payments systems or the investors should consider investing in equities for a minimum of custodians records could prevent accurate reporting and five years.
Thus the Directors consider five years to be an monitoring of the Companys financial position.
This includes appropriate time horizon to assess the Companys viability.
the risk of cybercrime and the consequent potential threat to security and business continuity.
Details of how the Board The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that monitors the services provided by JPMF and its associates the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its and the key elements designed to provide effective risk liabilities as they fall due over the five year period of assessment.
management and internal control are included within the Risk Management and Internal Control section of the Corporate By order of the Board Governance statement on pages27 and31.
Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of The threat of cyber attack, in all its guises, is regarded as at JPMorgan Funds Limited, least as important as more traditional physical threats to Company Secretary business continuity and security.
The Company benefits 11th April 2018 directly or indirectly from all elements of JPMorgans Cyber Security programme.
The information technology controls around the physical security of JPMorgans data centres, security of its networks and security of its trading applications are tested by independent reporting accountants and reported on every six months against the Audit and Assurance Faculty AAF standard.
Financial: The financial risks faced by the Company include market price risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Bank counterparties are subject to regular credit analysis by the Manager and regular consideration at meetings of the Board.
In addition the Board receives regular reports on the Managers monitoring and mitigation of credit risks on share transactions carried out by the Company.
Further details are disclosed in note 24 on pages57to61.
