20 BUSINESS REVIEW AND STRATEGY BUSINESS MODEL The Group has a flexible and robust business model that generates profit predominately through its portfolio of owned and managed hospitality assets.
These assets are diversified by brand, market, geography and customer offering according to what we judge to be the most appropriate means of optimising their earnings.
We aim to hold our assets for the long term, especially those in key gateway cities.
We employ complementary business models in certain circumstances.
For example, we may engage third party operators on a selective basis to manage our brand assets that we own.
We also may operate through a licensing model, through joint ventures or through arrangements where we manage hotels on behalf of other third party owners.
We regard the flexibility of our business models as an essential strength in a varied and rapidly changing global hospitality market.
STRATEGY Our strategy is to maximise returns on shareholders capital through the ownership and operation of hospitality assets in key gateway cities and other prime locations across the world that naturally attract large numbers of business and leisure travellers.
Underpinning this strategy are the twin aims of operational excellence and prudent asset management.
We seek to increase returns through quality service and efficient operationsby developing our people, processes and technologyas well as through investment in the material fabric of our hotel estate.
We also look to grow the business through asset acquisition in strategic locations.
Orchard Grand Ballroom, Orchard Hotel Singapore Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 21 HOTEL OPERATIONS On 27 November 2018, CDL Hospitality Trusts CDLHT acquired In constant currency, hotel revenue increased by 5m or 0.6%.
Reported 95.0% of the shares and voting interest in Event Hospitality Group III B. V. hotel revenue in 2018 fell by 13m with the impact from a stronger pound which wholly owns Event Hospitality Group III Italy SRL, sole shareholder sterling against the Groups main trading currencies.
The increase of 5m of NKS Hospitality III for a purchase consideration of 33m 29m.
in hotel revenue in 2018 was due principally to higher contributions from NKS Hospitality III SRL is the legal owner of Hotel Cerretani Florence, Millennium Hilton New York ONE UN Plaza and M Social Auckland in MGallery by Sofitel and the fixtures, furniture and equipment therein.
New Zealand: offset partially by the loss of revenues from the closure of the Mayfair hotel in London.
DISPOSALS On 11 January 2018, CDLHT completed the divestment of two hotels in Group RevPAR increased by 0.7% in constant currency.
Hotel gross Australia, the Mercure Brisbane and Ibis Brisbane for A$77m 45m to an operating margin was lower at 30.5% 2017: 32.2%.
As previously reported, in December 2013 the Group entered into various DEVELOPMENTS commercial arrangements with Birmingham City Council and the The Sunnyvale California project comprises the construction of a 263- 2 developer of Birminghams Paradise Circus redevelopment scheme, now room hotel and a 250-unit residential apartment block on 35,717m known as Paradise Birmingham, as a result of a compulsory purchase mixed use freehold landsite.
The ground-breaking ceremony was held on order by Birmingham City Council that covered the Copthorne Hotel 16 October 2018 and the project is scheduled to complete in Q1 2021.
The Birmingham and other properties in its vicinity.
Those arrangements construction cost is estimated at US$180m 142m.
The hotel will be built include options that provide for the sale of the existing hotel to the first and the plan is to brand it as M Social to fit with the expected guest developer as well as the Groups acquisition of an alternate site in the profile.
The Group hopes to capitalise from the location of this project as scheme for the development of a new 250-room hotel.
In December 2018, Sunnyvale is the headquarters of many technology companies and is part of the Group exercised its option to acquire that alternative site and continues Californias high-tech area of Silicon Valley.
to engage with the developer regarding the project.
In South Korea, the Group plans to construct a 300-room hotel and a With regard to the compulsory purchase order impacting the Millennium 250-unit serviced apartment complex on Yangdong development land, Hotel Glasgow, pursuant to which Network Rail Infrastructure Limited situated adjacent to Millennium Seoul Hilton.
It will take about three years Network Rail acquired and demolished the 1970s-built, 51-room to complete from the expected commencement date in the middle of 2020. extension of the hotel as part of the redevelopment of Queen Street Architecture and engineering designs are being amended with the exact Station, negotiations are ongoing with Network Rail regarding the level of construction cost dependent on the final agreed design but anticipated to be compensation payable to the Group in connection with the taking.
If the in the region of KRW130b 91m.
parties are unable to agree a value, the matter will be settled at the Lands Tribunal.
Meanwhile, the Group continues to consider its options with HOTEL REFURBISHMENTS respect to the refurbishment and repositioning of the existing hotel.
As noted above, on-going refurbishment work at the Mayfair hotel in London, which started in November 2017, is on track to complete in Q2 OTHER GROUP OPERATIONS 2019.
The hotel will be re-opened as a 5-star deluxe property as LXR Joint ventures and associates contributed 29m to profit in 2018 2017: Hotels & Resorts first UK property, following an agreement between 22m.
The Group has an effective interest of 36% in First Sponsor Group Hilton and the Group.
Limited FSGL, which is listed on the Singapore Exchange and reports its results publicly.
The hotel is situated in a prime Mayfair location on Grosvenor Square and will be renamed The Biltmore, Mayfair LXR Hotels & Resorts.
The In April 2018, the Group subscribed for its full entitlement of FSGLs rights hotel is designed by Goddard Littlefair and will have 257 luxurious guest issue of new Perpetual Convertible Capital Securities PCCS for a total 2 rooms plus 51 designer suites.
The hotel will have a large 500m ballroom cost of S$58m 32m and the PCCS were allotted on 19 April 2018. with capacity of up to 700 guests, and several other smaller function rooms.
Current work also includes the provision of new restaurants, an all year On 14 February 2019, the Group provided an irrevocable undertaking to round alfresco terrace, a cocktail bar and a large gymtech fitness suite.
take up its full entitlement of FSGLs proposed rights issue of new PCCS for a total cost of S$53m 30m.
As part of the capital funding proposal, Refurbishment work is also progressing well in the Orchard Hotel in 1 new free warrant will be issued for every 1 new PCCS subscribed for: in Singapore.
The first phase including refurbishment of the lobby and food addition, 1 new bonus warrant will be issued for every 10 existing ordinary & beverage outlets was completed at the end of last year.
Refurbishment shares held in FSGL.
Also, as part of the proposal additional funds would is being undertaken on a phased basis.
Work has recently started on guest be required within the next five years should the Group choose to exercise rooms, the ballroom and meeting spaces and is expected to complete in the its rights in respect of the new warrants and this will amount to S$90m middle of this year.
52m if all warrants are exercised.
ACQUISITIONS On 24 January 2019, FSGL acquired a bare shell 65-room hotel located in On 1 February 2018, the Group acquired The Waterfront Hotel in New Milan, Italy for a total consideration of approximately 11m 10m.
Plymouth, New Zealand, for a purchase consideration of NZ$11m 6m.
The iconic 42-room hotel was rebranded a Millennium hotel in Q2 of 2018.
