PIGIT pp01 16. qxp 31 05 2018 10:49 Page 10 STRATEGY STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc is an investment company and its investment objective is set out below.
The strategy the Board follows to achieve that objective is to set investment policy and risk guidelines, together with investment limits, and to monitor how they are applied.
These are also set out below and have been approved by shareholders.
The business model the Company has adopted to achieve its investment objective has been to contract investment management and administration to appropriate external service providers, which are overseen by the Board.
The principal service provider is Invesco Fund Managers Limited IFML or the Manager.
Invesco Asset Management Limited, an associate company of IFML, manages the Companys investments and acts as company secretary under delegated authority from IFML.
References to the Manager in this annual financial report should consequently be considered to include both entities.
The Manager provides company secretarial, marketing and general administration services including accounting and manages the portfolio in accordance with the Boards strategy.
Mark Barnett is the portfolio manager responsible for the day-to-day management of the portfolio.
His associate Martin Walker deputises in the event of Mr Barnetts absence.
In addition to the management and administrative functions of the Manager, the Company has contractual arrangements with Link Asset Services to act as registrar and The Bank of New York Mellon International Limited BNYMIL as depositary and custodian.
BNYMIL became the depositary following novation of the depositary agreement with BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK Limited on 1 December 2017.
The transfer has had no substantive effect on the services received by the Company.
Investment Objective The Companys investment objective is to provide shareholders with capital growth and real growth in dividends over the medium to longer term from a portfolio of securities listed mainly in the UK equity market.
Investment Policy The Company invests mainly in UK equities and equity-related securities of UK-listed companies.
The Manager seeks to identify and invest mainly in companies that offer a combination of good capital growth prospects with the ability to increase dividends over time.
Market exposure may also be gained through the limited use of derivatives, the purpose of which would be to achieve changes to the portfolios economic exposure.
However, the Company will not enter into derivative transactions for speculative purposes.
The Manager manages the portfolio to reflect its convictions and best ideas.
The Manager does not set out to manage the risk characteristics of the portfolio relative to the FTSE All-Share Index benchmark index and the investment process may result in potentially very significant over or underweight positions in individual sectors versus the benchmark index.
If a security is not considered to be a good investment, then the Company will not own it, irrespective of its weight in the benchmark index.
The Manager controls the stock-specific risk of individual securities by ensuring that the portfolio is always appropriately diversified.
In-depth and continual analysis of the fundamentals of investee companies allows the Manager to assess the financial risks associated with any particular security.
The Directors believe that the use of borrowings can enhance returns to shareholders and the Company will use borrowings in pursuing its investment objective.
The Company may hedge exposure to changes in foreign currency rates in respect of its overseas investments, at the Managers discretion.
Investment Limits The Board has prescribed investment limits forming part of the Investment Policy, the most significant of which follow: not more than 12% of gross assets in any single investment: not more than 15% of gross assets in other listed investment companies: not more than 20% of gross assets in non-UK listed securities: not more than 10% of gross assets in fixed interest securities: derivatives including warrants may be used for investment purposes to increase the Companys market exposure by up to 5% of gross assets.
Derivatives may also be used to hedge the portfolios market exposure: and 10 PIGIT pp01 16. qxp 31 05 2018 10:49 Page 11 STRATEGY borrowings may be used to raise exposure to securities up to a maximum of 25% of net assets where it is considered appropriate.
Each limit is measured at the time of investment or borrowing.
Borrowing Borrowing policy is under the control of the Board.
The Board has set a maximum borrowing limit of 25% of total net assets measured at the time new borrowings are drawn.
The use of borrowing for investment is not an expression of confidence in the performance of the overall UK stock market, but rather an endorsement of the potential for the securities selected for the portfolio.
The Company currently has three sources for borrowing, being 60 million par value of fixed rate 15 year senior secured notes Notes with an interest rate of 4.37% and two facilities provided by The Bank of New York Mellon, being a 60 million uncommitted revolving credit facility and an 80 million uncommitted overdraft facility.
Both the Board and the Manager are content that these arrangements offer a sufficiently flexible means of gearing.
Further details are contained in notes 11 and 12 on page 51.
Performance The Board reviews performance by reference to Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
The five main KPIs are as follows: Asset Performance On a total return basis, the Companys one, three, five and ten year record for its NAV and share price compared to the benchmark index is shown on page 2.
For the year to 31 March 2018, the Companys NAV underperformed the benchmark index by 6.8%.
In reviewing the performance of the assets of the Company, the Board monitors the NAV performance in relation to the FTSE All-Share Index.
However, the Managers aim is to achieve absolute return through a genuinely active investment management approach.
It is not the investment management teams philosophy to regard the FTSE All-Share Index as a benchmark for portfolio construction for the Company.
This approach can therefore result in a portfolio that is from time to time substantially different from the FTSE All-Share Index but, the last two years results notwithstanding, has historically achieved significant outperformance of that index.
Peer Group Performance There were 23 investment trusts in the UK Equity Income sector at 31 March 2018.
This sector, however, is quite diverse in its investment policies and structures.
The Board monitors the performance of the Company in relation to both this sector as a whole and to those companies within it which the Board consider to be its peer group.
As at 31 March 2018, of those companies ranked within the UK Equity Income sector, the Company was nd th ranked 22 over one and three years, and 18 over five years by NAV performance source: JP Morgan Cazenove.
Dividends and Dividend Policy The Companys dividend policy is that the Directors shall seek to provide ordinary shareholders with real growth in dividends over the medium to longer term.
In so doing the Directors aim to distribute, by way of dividend, substantially all of the Companys net income after expenses and taxation whilst also retaining a prudent level of reserves.
Dividends are paid on a regular quarterly basis in September, December, March and June in respect of each accounting year.
The timing of these regular quarterly payments means that shareholders do not have an opportunity to vote on a final dividend.
Recognising the importance of shareholder engagement, and although not required by any regulation, shareholders were given an opportunity to vote on this policy at the last AGM.
Of the votes registered 99.9% were in favour.
It is not considered necessary to repeat the exercise this year because the policy has not changed.
The Board has declared ordinary dividends of 13.90p per share in respect of the year under review, compared with 13.35p per share in respect of the prior year, an increase of 4.1%.
A special dividend of 0.8p per share has also been declared 2017: 0.7p.
The Retail Price Index increased 3.3% in the year.
The individual dividends declared for the year are shown on the next page, on page 2 and in note 8 to the financial statements.
The Manager aims to maximise total return from the portfolio.
The Manager subscribes to the benefits of strong earnings growth and the importance of dividends to total return.
However, whilst income is an important consideration, dividend yields do not constrain investment decisions.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 11 PIGIT pp01 16. qxp 31 05 2018 10:49 Page 12 STRATEGY STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW continued Discount 6 Discount debt at market value The Board monitors the discount at which the Companys ordinary shares trade and 7 how this compares to other investment trusts in the peer group.
During the year 8 the shares traded in the discount range of % 6.7% to 10.5% and ended the year at 9 a 9.5% discount.
This is shown in the adjacent graph which plots the discount 10 over the year.
As at 31 March 2018, the weighted average discount of 11 the 23 investment trusts in the UK Equity Income sector was 3.4% 2017: 4.8% source: JPMorgan Cazenove.
The Board and the Manager closely monitor movements in the Companys share price and dealings in the Companys shares.
In order to address any significant imbalance in the market, the Board asks shareholders to approve resolutions each year which allow for the repurchase of ordinary shares for cancellation or to be held as treasury shares and also their issuance.
This may also assist in the management of the discount.
No shares were issued or bought back in the past year.
The Company has not previously held any shares in treasury.
However, should the Board consider it to be in shareholders interests to do so, then it is the Boards policy to sell shares held as treasury shares on terms that are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
Ongoing Charges The expenses of managing the Company are reviewed by the Board at every meeting.
The Board aims to minimise the ongoing charges figure which provides a guide to the effect on performance of all annual operating costs of the Company.
The ongoing charges figure for the year was 0.70% 2017: 0.65% based on management fees and other expenses of 7,010,000 2017: 6,267,000.
The change from last year is principally due to the new management fee arrangements described in last years annual financial report see also Directors Report page 27.
Results and Dividends On 31 March 2018, the share price and the net asset value debt at market value per ordinary share were 344.0p and 380.1p respectively.
The respective comparable figures at 31 March 2017 were 375.8p and 416.2p.
For the year ended 31 March 2018, three interim dividends of 3.15p each per share were paid on 29 September 2017, 29 December 2017 and 30 March 2018 respectively.
A fourth interim dividend of 4.45p per share has been declared for payment on 29 June 2018 to shareholders on the register on 8 June, giving total interim dividends for the year of 13.90p 2017: 13.35p.
As discussed in the Chairmans Statement, a special dividend of 0.8p per share has also been declared and will be paid at the same time as the fourth interim dividend.
The aggregate dividend paid for the year is 14.70p 2017: 14.05p.
Financial Position and Borrowings The Companys balance sheet on page 42 shows the assets and liabilities at the year end.
Details of the 60 million senior secured notes are shown in note 12, and details of the Companys overdraft and revolving credit facilities are shown in note 11.
Outlook, including the Future of the Company The main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the Companys business can be found in the Portfolio Managers Report in this Strategic Report.
Further details of the principal risks affecting the Company are set out under Principal Risks and Uncertainties below.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Board carries out a regular review of the risk environment in which the Company operates and has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company.
The following sets out a description of those risks and how they are being managed or mitigated.
12 Mar-17 Apr-17 May-17 Jun-17 Jul-17 Aug-17 Sep-17 Oct-17 Nov-17 Dec-17 Jan-18 Feb-18 Mar-18 PIGIT pp01 16. qxp 31 05 2018 10:49 Page 13 STRATEGY Economic Risk Economic risk arises from uncertainty about the future prices of the Companys investments.
The majority of the Companys investments are listed on regulated stock exchanges and will be subject to market fluctuations, both upward and downward, arising from external factors including general economic conditions and government policies.
Such factors are outside the control of the Board and the Manager and may give rise to high levels of volatility in the prices of the investments held.
Investment Risk There can be no guarantee that the Company will meet its investment objective and therefore there is also a risk of underperformance against the Companys benchmark index.
The Manager provides the Board with management information, including performance data, and shareholder analysis.
The overall effect on the Company of poor performance of individual investments is mitigated through the guidelines the Board has established, which amongst other things ensure that the portfolio of investments is appropriately diversified.
Any proposed divergence from these guidelines is referred to the Board and the guidelines themselves are reviewed at every Board meeting.
The day-to-day management of the portfolio is the responsibility of the portfolio manager who, with his team, undertakes continual analysis of the fundamentals of all holdings.
The performance of the portfolio manager is carefully monitored by the Board culminating in the annual review of the management contract.
A fuller discussion of the economic and market conditions facing the Company and the current and future performance of the portfolio are included in the Portfolio Managers Report on pages 7 and 9.
Past performance of the Company is not necessarily indicative of future performance.
Financial Risk The financial risks faced by the Company include market price risk including currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, liquidity risk and credit risk, which includes counterparty and custodial risk.
Details of these risks and how they are managed are disclosed in note 16 to the financial statements on pages 52 to 56.
Gearing Risk Whilst the use of borrowings by the Company should enhance total shareholder return when the return on the Companys underlying securities is rising and exceeds the cost of borrowing, it will have the opposite effect when the underlying return is falling.
Whilst the portfolio manager has discretion on when and how he should use borrowings to gear returns, the Board reviews regularly the level of gearing and the extent of available borrowings.
Share Discount Risk The Companys shares may trade at a wide discount to their underlying net asset value.
The Board and the Manager maintain an active dialogue on the market rating of the Companys shares and the Board has taken the powers, which it seeks to renew each year, for both share repurchase and issuance, which can help in its management.
Operational Risk The Board regularly reviews the system of financial and non-financial internal controls operated by the Company, the Manager and other external service providers.
These include controls designed to safeguard the Companys assets and to ensure that proper accounting records are maintained.
Details of how the Board monitors the services provided by the Manager and other suppliers are explained further in the internal controls and risk management section in the audit committee report on page 21.
The depositary also monitors the Companys stock, cash, borrowings and investment restrictions throughout the year and issues an annual report to the Directors.
Regulatory Risk The Company is subject to various laws and regulations by virtue of its status as a public limited company registered under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006, its status as an investment trust, and its listing on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority.
Loss of investment trust status for tax purposes could lead to the Company being subject to tax on the realised capital profits on the sale of its investments.
A serious breach of other regulatory rules could lead to suspension from the Official List, a fine or qualified audit report.
Other control failures, either by the Manager or any other of the Companys service providers, could result in operational or reputational problems, erroneous disclosures or loss of assets through fraud, as well as breaches of regulations.
The PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 13 PIGIT pp01 16. qxp 31 05 2018 10:49 Page 14 STRATEGY STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW continued Manager reviews compliance with tax and other financial regulatory requirements on a daily basis and reports to the Board on a regular basis on all regulatory aspects.
Other Risks The risk that the portfolio manager, Mark Barnett, may become incapacitated or otherwise be unavailable is mitigated by support available from his designated deputy for this portfolio, Martin Walker, and the wider Invesco Perpetual UK Equities team.
Viability Statement The Directors view of the Companys viability has not changed since last year.
The Company, as an investment trust, is a collective investment vehicle designed and managed for the long term.
The Companys investment objective is to provide shareholders with capital growth and real growth in dividends over the medium to longer term.
The Directors take a long term view in their stewardship of the Company, as does the portfolio manager in his management of the portfolio.
The Company is required by its Articles to have a continuation vote every five years, the next instance being in 2021.
The Directors have no reason to believe that shareholders will not vote, again, for the continuation of the Company at that time.
The Company typically holds shares for at least five years, and this period is substantially less than the outstanding term of the Companys Notes, which will require repayment in 2029.
Consequently, the Directors consider that the appropriate term for the purpose of this viability statement is five years.
In their assessment of the Companys viability, the Directors considered the principal risks to which it is exposed, as set out on pages 12 and 13, together with mitigating factors.
Their assessment also considered the following: the Companys investment objective and strategy: the investment capabilities of the portfolio manager: the business model of the Company, which has effectively been stress tested over the years through various difficult market cycles: the current outlook for the UK economy and equity markets: demand for the Companys shares and the discount at which they trade: the Companys borrowing structure: the liquidity of the portfolio: and the Companys future income and annual operating costs.
Consideration of the borrowing structure included the amount the NAV could fall without triggering the repayment of the Notes and or the bank overdraft and credit facility and the amount of debt cover which at the year end was more than eight times the aggregate of these liabilities.
The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five year period of assessment.
Board Diversity The Boards policy on diversity is that the Board seeks to ensure that its structure, size and composition, including the balance of skills, knowledge, diversity including gender and experience of Directors, is sufficient for the effective direction and control of the Company.
The Board has not set any measurable targets or quotas in respect of this policy.
The Board comprises six non-executive directors, one of whom is a woman.
This constitutes 16.6% female Board representation.
Summary biographical details of the Directors are set out on page 17.
The Company has no employees.
Social and Environmental Matters As an investment company with no employees, property or activities outside investment, environmental policy has limited application.
The Manager considers various factors when evaluating potential investments.
While a companys policy towards the environment and social responsibility, including with regard to human rights, is considered as part of the overall assessment of risk and suitability for the portfolio, the Manager does not necessarily decide to make or not to make an investment on environmental and social grounds.
The Manager applies the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment.
As an investment vehicle the Company does not provide goods or services in the normal course of business, and does not have customers.
Accordingly, the Directors consider that the Company is not within the scope of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
This Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 30 May 2018 Invesco Asset Management Limited Company Secretary 14
