Business review Our Group priorities are to deliver the benefits of the Wagamama acquisition, grow our Concessions and Pub businesses and optimise our Leisure brands.
Introduction The enlarged group is now Following the acquisition of Wagamama, the enlarged group is now strongly orientated towards growth with Wagamama strongly orientated towards and our Concessions and Pubs businesses contributing c. 70% of Group outlet EBITDA in the period on a full-year growth.
Wagamama is a differentiated, high growth pan-Asian Andy McCue proposition that has consistently and significantly outperformed Chief Executive Officer its core UK market.
That outperformance is driven by excellent operational standards, as well as being exceptionally well aligned to structural growth drivers as customers demand more convenient, faster, and healthier options.
Our Concessions business is a market leader in UK airports.
Our strength in capability to develop and operate a broad range of formats in a wide range of infrastructure types has resulted in a strong track record of like-for-like sales growth, winning new sites and renewing existing space.
Our Pubs business is well positioned in the market with a premium, differentiated food-led offer that is increasingly outperforming the pub restaurant sector.
The business benefits from operating and often owning differentiated assets and delivering an exceptional experience.
There continue to be opportunities to expand this business and we have a healthy organic pipeline in place.
In our Leisure business we operate multi-brand casual dining restaurants across the UK.
While the business is not inherently well exposed to structural growth drivers as a function of either location or proposition form, we are focused on optimising the propositions to maximise profitability.
We will also be disciplined in our approach to capital allocation.
Our Group priorities are to: deliver the benefits of the Wagamama acquisition: grow our Concessions and Pubs businesses and optimise our Leisure brands.
06 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 1.
Deliver the benefits of the Wagamama acquisition The business is also progressing well on driving future growth Wagamama via the levers identified at the time of the transaction: Wagamama has a strong competitive advantage as the only UK pan-Asian brand concept of scale.
UK Casual Dining: We expect to open between three and four new restaurants this year in the UK, as well as converting The business is well aligned to key structural trends, eight Leisure sites to Wagamama.
consistently outperforming the market average on experience 6 ratings in healthiness of food, convenience and speed.
UK Concessions: The business has won a tender for a site in Heathrow Terminal 3 which is due to open in the second Wagamama benefits from a high quality leadership team half of this year.
A site has also been secured in the planned which operates the business as a standalone entity and has redevelopment of Manchester airport and is due to open in the freedom to cultivate its unique cohesive culture.
The business is also exploring a variety of other airport opportunities.
Wagamama has demonstrated an outstanding track record of like-for-like revenue growth.
In its quarter three results Delivery: The delivery kitchen in Battersea has been 12 weeks up to 3 February Wagamama increased like-for-like successfully trialled and we will be rolling out further delivery 7 7 sales by 9.1%: resulting in like-for-like sales of 9.7% for its kitchens in the year.
financial year to date quarters one to three.
The Wagamama team have identified clear opportunities to grow like-for-like International: We opened a new restaurant in Murray Hill, sales further in 2019, including: NYC earlier this year and will open in Midtown Manhattan in the Summer.
A strategic review of our options for the development of the drinks range to help drive higher US business has commenced and we will update investors participation: on our plans later in the year.
investment in local marketing and events to drive greater awareness, using new data sources to more effectively Food to go formats: The business has developed a new target audiences and win share: grab and go concept which is to be branded Mamago.
The concept will offer a newly developed Asian menu to capitalise further expansion of the vegan range, including new on increased customer demand for convenience.
The initial collaboration hero dish Avant Gardn, which features a pilot is planned for launch in the second half of this year.
vegan egg, being launched in partnership with vegan chef Gaz Oakley: increased delivery growth via greater reach of aggregators and technology integration both within and between restaurants and six major refurbishments planned for this year which will add 300 additional covers equivalent to two new restaurants.
6 Source: Morar BrandVue Q4 customer ratings.
7 Like-for-like sales as per Wagamama Q3 bond report.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 07 Business review continued Synergies Our unique capabilities enabling us to consistently deliver high We will convert eight Leisure sites to Wagamama restaurants operational standards at high volume and peak-load intensity, this year, with a similar number expected next year.
Teams along with our format development and partnering skills, across the business have well developed people, marketing position us well for further contract wins in the future.
and design and build plans to ensure the new restaurants launch successfully.
The eight sites are in locations which In 2018 we have been successful in winning 21 new units align well with the Wagamama customer demographic, and and adding five new clients in UK travel hubs as well as four in competitive markets where we have high confidence that new brand partnerships.
These new openings were a mix of we can take share from less differentiated offerings.
The multiple formats and categories, showcasing our operational eight TRG sites collectively make a modest profit today and capability strength and ability to provide full solutions to airport we expect them to generate incremental EBITDA returns in partners.
This included a Spuntino restaurant in Heathrow, excess of 50% of the cost of capital to convert.
The converted the first Brewdog bar in a UK airport in Edinburgh, two sites will open between August and November 2019.
We have outlets for Barburrito and our first Crepeaffaire franchise continued confidence in delivering an incremental EBITDA unit.
We also developed several in-house concepts such benefit of at least 7m per annum at maturity in 2021 from as the Hawker Bar in Luton and the Distilling House pub our site conversion programme.
We are progressing well in Aberdeen.
with our cost synergy plans and collaborative cross-functional working groups across the business have been established.
We expect to open at least 5 to 10 Concessions units in 2019.
We have continued confidence in delivering at least 15m of In addition to this we have secured a contract to operate cost synergies per annum in 2021.
Synergies will be achieved a number of significant sites for the planned redevelopment through leveraging scale and consolidating spend across the at Manchester airport, due to trade in 2020. following cost categories: Plans to grow our business outside of UK airports are procurement and logistics progressing well.
We have developed two new brands, site level overheads Mezze Box and Grains and Greens with Sainsburys.
The initial trial has commenced with five counters opened so central costs.
We are also building a team to support our longer term plans for growth into international airports.
Grow our Concessions and Pubs businesses Concessions Pubs Our Concessions business operates a wide variety of food Our Pubs business is well positioned in the market with and beverage formats, across over 35 brands, primarily in a premium offering tailored to local markets.
This includes bespoke concepts designed with continued to outperform the pub restaurant sector in 2018, airport partners, The TRG Groups own leisure brands, and with the extent of outperformance increasing year-on-year.
well-known third-party brands, which operate under franchise arrangements.
During the year we optimised our menu pricing architecture and developed a more flexible approach to our menus, with an Our trading continues to be strong and we continued our expansion of the nibbles and sharing sections, and smaller plate strong track record of retaining sites, with c. 85% having options on some of the core dishes.
In the year ahead we will be received contract renewals beyond the term of the initial launching a gluten-free menu in all our pubs.
In particular during 2018 we successfully renewed refine our drinks range to ensure we cater for an increasing contracts for existing large spaces at both Gatwick and trend in craft beer and low alcohol no alcohol drinks.
On average our contracts have been extended for 90% of the original concession term.
08 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements We continue to look at opportunities to leverage the existing Our Leisure estate is disproportionately highly exposed to space in our estate.
Benefitting from the warm weather over these pressures.
56% of our estate directly neighbours retail, the summer we ran an increased number of events such as most of which are in out-of-town locations.
As a result of our our gin and prosecco festivals, as well as live music events discipline over recent years, the vast majority of our Leisure which are proving increasingly popular.
During the year we portfolio remains EBITDA positive.
41% of our Leisure portfolio opened three new private dining rooms and our first separate also has a lease end or break option within the next five years.
function space at the Red Fox pub, which has been used for larger functions, including weddings.
Following the successful In order to ensure we make the correct property decisions, opening of our first pub with accommodation in September, we have analysed every restaurant in our Leisure estate we opened another in February 2019.
We anticipate additional to determine its potential performance versus its actual revenue opportunities by continuing to leverage our existing performance.
In the case of Frankie and Bennys, 31% of sites space in the year ahead with further function space, private are in structurally unattractive locations, and as such, we will dining rooms and all-weather external terraces currently seek to exit these locations in future years.
Of the remaining under consideration.
Frankie and Bennys locations, 60% are outperforming or in-line with their local markets: in 40% we believe there is Our estate expansion plans are progressing well.
We opened scope for operational improvement.
21 new pubs in the year including the acquisitions of Ribble Valley Inns consisting of four leasehold pubs and Food & Fuel Frankie and Bennys consisting of 11 leasehold pubs and caf-bars predominately The brand has seen considerable activity over the last twelve situated in affluent London neighbourhoods.
We have now months, progressing well on a number of initiatives.
refurbished three of the Ribble Valley sites and these are delivering a sales uplift in excess of 30% post refurbishment.
In May, we saw the launch of our new Feel Good Range, The Food & Fuel sites are trading in line with expectations offering our customers increased and improved healthier and plans are in place to further develop these propositions options.
The range has proved popular with penetration at through 2019.
Our single site Brunning & Price acquisitions c. 10% of sales, with the top performers in this range being are trading well and we expect to open at least seven more the Nashville Chicken Skewers and Skinny Chicken Pizza.
We launched on Comparethemarkets Meerkat Meals 3.
Optimise our Leisure business partner platform in June and have seen really strong The market backdrop for our Leisure business is challenging engagement, with it becoming one of our most popular with a 27% increase in the number of branded restaurants promotions.
This has been accompanied by a dramatic decrease in the growth rates of both total sales We launched our Squishies campaign in October through and like-for-like sales every year since 2014.
Structural trends, to November where we gave away a free Squishie toy with including declining retail footfall, the rapid rise of the delivery every kids meal.
This proved successful in driving repeat visits.
sector and fast changing customer preferences towards convenience and healthy options, all create challenges for Our payment at table feature, pay my bill, is improving in long established multi-site operators of scale.
Profitability has popularity with customers, with over five percent of been further challenged by the pressure of rising costs, with transactions being made through this channel.
the bulk of our restaurant wage bill inflating by around 4%, electricity costs at eight year highs, and rent and rates costs Our customers are responding to these initiatives, and this remaining at high levels despite the decreasing consumer has resulted in an improvement in our social review scores demand.
In response, we are focused on ensuring our brands throughout the year, as well as improved sales momentum.
are competitively differentiated, increasing our exposure to healthy and convenient options and capitalising on off-trade delivery and collection sales.
However, given the market backdrop, we are acutely disciplined in how we allocate capital and highly discerning as to lease renewal commitments and the flexibility inherent within them.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 09 Business review continued We are currently trialling order ahead functionality in 25 sites.
Summary and current trading This gives our customers the ability to order and pay for their In summary: meal in advance, alongside a booked table, and have it ready the enlarged group is now strongly orientated towards for them when they arrive at the restaurant.
Initial feedback growth: from customers has been positive and we will look to roll out Wagamama like-for-like sales momentum is strong and more broadly later in the year.
we are progressing well on the growth avenues unlocked by the acquisition: Upcoming activity includes continued improvement in the core proposition via new menus.
We will shortly trial a strong growth continues in Concessions and Pubs: simplified core menu with a large reduction in the number we remain focused on optimising our Leisure brands of dishes, to help our teams improve operational consistency.
and property portfolio and Our marketing campaigns will become increasingly targeted to specific occasions and highlight new food development current trading for first 10 weeks of the year in line with via limited time offers.
We will invest in service and operational our expectations with like-for-like sales up 2.8%.
improvements in underperforming sites and actively manage the structurally disadvantaged tail.
Andy McCue Chiquito Chief Executive Officer The brand has evolved its offering over the course of the year with a number of initiatives employed.
In January 2018 15 March 2019 we launched a new core menu aimed at reinstating value, improving choice, simplifying navigation and focusing on more authentic Mexican dishes such as our build your own tortillas option.
We invested in a stronger senior operational team throughout the year.
This in turn allowed us to focus on the quality of our General Managers and drive standards up through peer group benchmarking.
Our promotional strategy has become more centred around Mexican favourites, generating a very encouraging take-up from customers.
We also launched a virtual brand Kick-ass Burrito which, across all delivery aggregators, now has 131 points of sale.
Our customers are recognising these improvements with a notable increase in our social review scores throughout the year, as well as improved trading momentum, with like-for-like sales improving in every quarter.
Our plans for the year ahead include the launch of a new menu in April which will feature a strong range of dishes catering for people with dietary restrictions, as well as improving our vegan and vegetarian offer, with dishes such as our jackfruit burrito with benefits, beetroot and feta lettuce wrap and bean and red chilli burger.
We will also offer exciting trade-up options with premium ingredients such as our Picanha surf & turf dish and Barabacoa beef build your own option.
10 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018
