Business and financial review Making progress in challenging markets 2018 was an important year for Schroders.
We implemented a new front office investment platform and moved into our new headquarters in London, both of which offer significant benefits for our clients and our people.
We continued to develop the business in line with our strategic priorities and made a number of investments in new opportunities.
We delivered pre-tax and exceptional profits of 761.2 million in 2018.
That is down from profits of 800.3 million we reported last year, but in 2017 these included unusually high performance fees and a one-off accounting benefit relating to deferred compensation, which is explained on page 23.
Taking into account these two impacts and the significant investments we have been making to grow the business, we are pleased with the progress we have made in 2018 and the results we have delivered.
Net operating revenues increased by 3% in 2018 to 2,070.7 million 2017: 2,010.2 million.
Excluding performance fees and carried interest, the growth in this key performance indicator was 4%, principally driven by a year-on-year increase in average AUM.
The growth in average AUM was driven by net new business, along with acquisitions.
Markets, net of currency movements, did not have any impact on the growth of average AUM and therefore net operating revenue.
22 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Net new business in 2017 and 2018 contributed around 41 million As well as focusing on growing the business, we are committed to tothe growth in 2018 management fees.
We expect the net outflows delivering long-term efficiencies and being an employer of choice, in 2018 to reduce annualised revenues by around 35 million in 2019. which is able to attract, retain and develop the best talent.
In line with Acquisitions this year and last contributed around 72 million to the these objectives, we continue to invest in technology to enhance our additional revenues, principally from the acquisition of Schroder processes and review our operating model to ensure it is optimal Adveq, which completed in July 2017. forthe future.
In the second half of 2018, we completed the implementation of our new front office technology platform and The increase in net operating revenue drove a 3% rise in net income moved into our new headquarters, based in London.
This was a good important developments in our infrastructure and support our overall performance, particularly when the unusually high levels of strategy, enabling technological solutions for various aspects of the performance fees generated last year are considered.
However, the business and facilitating efficient, scalable growth.
growth was more than offset by expected increases to our cost base.
Our new investment platform provides additional capabilities for our fund managers, enabling them to deliver tailored solutions to our Profit before tax and exceptional items clients across our product offering.
We are investing in further change initiatives, including embracing technology such as robotic process of 761.2 million automation, which can be effectively deployed to drive efficiencies.
The move into our new headquarters, based in London, was a These cost increases include a reduction to the accounting benefit significant event for Schroders and is an important component werecognised in 2017, following a regulatory driven change to the inattracting and retaining talent and promoting our collaborative deferral of compensation costs for material risk takers MRTs.
This approach that is part of ensuring we continue to be successful.
resulted in a 1% reduction to the total compensation ratio in 2017.
Thebuildings design is in line with our focus on corporate and The accounting benefit of the change reduced to around 0.5% this socialresponsibility, and specifically the environment.
Despite the reduction to this benefit, we have maintained a totalcompensation ratio of 43% in 2018.
This follows a targeted cost As we maintain our focus on the long-term growth of the business, reduction programme which is explained below.
Reflecting the this year we have undertaken a targeted cost reduction programme, investments we are making to grow the business, we have seen some taking advantage of operating efficiency opportunities coming from increases in non-compensation costs.
However, our ratio of total cost our investment in technology and other developments.
This resulted to net income continues to be better than our long-term target of in a one-off charge of 56.0 million, which we have recorded within 65%.
The result is profit before tax and exceptional items of exceptional items, reflecting the fact that this is not a normal activity 761.2 million 2017: 800.3 million.
Along with other exceptional costs, the majority of which relate to amortisation of intangible assets, the pre-tax profit after We have delivered these results despite challenging conditions as exceptional items decreased to 649.9 million 2017: 760.2 million.
market uncertainty re-emerged, particularly towards the end of the year.
This period of uncertainty comes as the headwinds facing the As a UK-listed business, we have been closely monitoring the progress sector continue to present challenges.
of the Brexit negotiations between the UK and the EU.
We already have a strong presence in continental Europe and we do not expect We still see the impact of industry changes, shifting product demand Brexit to have a significant impact on our operating activities, and market-wide pricing pressures resulting in further underlying although we are prepared to make necessary changes where these declines in fee margins.
In this context, we remain focused on our may be required.
In 2018, we have taken steps to develop our strategic initiatives, set out in the Group Chief Executives report, and corporate structure in continental Europe and added permissions particularly in growing our core Asset Management business, while toenable us to continue to service our European clients.
also looking to expand our capabilities in private assets and building closer relationships with our end clients.
Overall, we believe we are well-placed to deal with the ongoing industry challenges and market conditions, while remaining focused The most significant expansion of our private assets capabilities on our long-term strategic priorities.
thisyear came through the acquisition of Algonquin Management Partners S. A. Algonquin, which completed in May 2018.
Algonquin is Reflecting our dividend policy and the decline in pre-tax and a specialist pan-European hotels investment management business exceptional profits this year, the Board is recommending a final that complements our existing real estate capabilities.
The acquisition dividend of 79 pence per share 2017: 79 pence which, after the added 1.6 billion of AUM from institutional clients across continental increase to the interim dividend, brings the total dividend for the Europe.
As our private assets and alternatives capability grows, it is yearto 114 pence 2017: 113 pence.
changing the dynamics of our performance.
It is reducing the impact The following commentary provides a more detailed review of fee margin pressures that are affecting the industry in our core ofourfinancial results.
Asset Management business, as well as increasing client longevity.
Importantly for Schroders, it is expanding our already diverse product offering in line with our strategic capabilities summarised on page 13.
In October, we announced a strategic partnership with Lloyds Banking Group LBG that we expect to complete in 2019.
This partnership will add significant AUM to the Group, as well as creating a strategically important joint venture called Schroders Personal Wealth in the financial planning space.
We believe that this will drive further growth for the Group in the UK wealth management and savings market, bringing us closer to our end clients.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 23 Business and financial review continued Assets under management and administration The outlook for 2019 continues to be impacted by the uncertainty AUMA both in the UK and continental Europe, principally relating to Brexit, but also globally owing to ongoing macroeconomic issues.
Against Geopolitical uncertainty and trade fears have been a consistent theme this backdrop, we were pleased to announce that we had won the throughout 2018, particularly towards the end of the year and into LBG mandate, which we expect to fund in the second half of 2019 2019.
These have led to a general decline in most major equity andto introduce around 80 billion of additional AUM.
markets around the world, with many suffering double digit falls in the fourth quarter.
The Group Chief Executives review, on pages 6 to 9, provides further details on the market dynamics and industry trends affecting the Group.
These matters are important to Wealth Management is a strategic focus for understanding our results as they are a key driver of the changes to us and continues to be an area of growth our AUMA.
with 1.7 billion of net new money in 2018 Against this backdrop of uncertainty and market volatility, our AUMA declined by 6% to close 2018 at 421.4 billion 2017: 447.0 billion.
AUMA comprises assets managed or advised on behalf of clients Client investment performance AUM of 407.2 billion 2017: 435.7 billion and assets under Our ability to generate positive investment outcomes for clients is administration AUA where we solely provide administrative support central to our success as an active investment manager.
Investment through our Benchmark Capital business of 14.2 billion performance over a three-year period our KPI remained strong in 2017: 11.3 billion.
2018, with 74% of assets outperforming their stated comparator There are four components to the movement in our AUMA: 2017: 74%.
Five-year investment outperformance was 76% 2017: 84% and the one-year figure was 43% 2017: 70% as net new flows from clients significant market movements in the fourth quarter impacted assets acquired or disposed of through acquisitions or disposals short-term performance.
investment returns, including currency movements Client investment performance is calculated internally by Schroders to changes in AUA give shareholders and financial analysts general guidance on how our AUM is performing.
The data is aggregated and is intended to provide AUM in the Asset Management segment decreased by 7% to information for comparison to prior reporting periods only.
This decline intended for clients or potential clients investing in our products.
occurred as many markets around the world retreated on the back Calculations for investment performance are made gross of fees with of continued economic uncertainty and global trade tensions.
These the exception of those for which the stated comparator is a net of fees decreases led to negative investment returns of 16.7 billion and competitor ranking.
also impacted on investor sentiment.
Within our Institutional sales channel, we had net client withdrawals of 6.6 billion.
This was When a products investment performance is discussed or shared principally driven by the loss of a single mandate, although we with a client or potential client, it is specific to the strategy or product.
were also impacted by a small number of clients restructuring their For clients introduced through our Intermediary sales channel, portfolios and internalising parts of their investment strategies.
There performance will be shown net of fees at the relevant fund share-class were net redemptions from our Intermediary sales channel of level, while for institutional clients it will typically be shown gross of 4.6 billion.
These outflows were principally from equity products as fees with a fee schedule for the strategy supplied.
We actively monitor clients, particularly in continental Europe, looked to fide-risk their the performance of our individual products against their stated portfolios on the back of the continued market uncertainty.
Further information about the calculation of investment performance is provided in the glossary on pages 178 to 179.
Wealth Management is a strategic focus for us and continues to be an area of growth.
In 2018, we generated 1.7 billion of net new business from clients, with 0.3 billion in our Schroder Wealth business and 1.4 billion through Benchmark Capital.
24 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report As we have grown, we have invested in developing our systems and The Groups financial performance processes.
These investments include a new front office investment Net income before exceptional items was up 3% to 2,123.9 million platform, as well as further investment in our data platforms and 2017: 2,068.9 million, mainly as a result of increased net operating wider business infrastructure, including our new London head office.
Net operating These are important strategic investments that provide us with a revenue represents operating revenues earned on the assets we strong foundation for the future growth of the business.
manage, net of cost of sales.
Business acquisitions resulted in around 10.0 million of increases to The increase in net operating revenue was driven by higher average our costs in 2018.
This increase includes the acquisitions made this AUM, which was up 6%.
The effect of higher AUM was partially offset year, most notably Algonquin, combined with the full-year impact by lower performance fees and net carried interest of 55.0 million from acquisitions made in 2017.
As a result, non-compensation costs 2017: 78.4 million.
Carried interest mainly arises from our Schroder excluding exceptional items increased to 459.4 million Adveq private equity business and is explained further on page 26.
Net gains on financial instruments and other income before Pre-exceptional profit before tax was 761.2 million exceptional items decreased slightly to 33.3 million 2017: 800.3 million, a decrease of 5% on the previous year.
Other income includes fees we earn on Basic earnings per share before exceptional items decreased to AUA within Benchmark Capital, which increased to 7.5 million 215.8pence 2017: 226.9 pence.
Exceptional items normally relate principally to acquisitions, including In addition, we have a number of joint ventures and associate amortisation of intangible assets.
In 2018, they also included costs interests across the world.
These include our partnerships with relating to a targeted cost reduction programme.
Further information Bank of Communications in China and with Axis Bank in India.
Joint on exceptional items is provided in note 1 b to the accounts.
After ventures and associates continued to make a good contribution with exceptional items, the profit before tax was 649.9 million our share of profits of associates and joint ventures before 2017: 760.2 million and basic earnings per share was 183.1 pence exceptional items, generating 19.9 million 2017: 23.5 million 2017: 215.3 pence.
Our operating expenses excluding exceptional items increased by 7% to 1,362.7 million 2017: 1,268.6 million.
This represents a ratio of total costs to net income of 64%, which is better than our long-term KPI target of 65%.
We are a people business and around 66% of our cost base is related to compensation.
We manage our compensation costs with reference to our net income.
This allows us to invest in growing the business and to reward our people in line with the Groups performance.
In 2017, we made changes to our remuneration approach for employees deemed to be MRTs under the UCITS or AIFM Directives.
We increased bonus deferral levels for these employees, to create further alignment with clients and shareholders and to meet these regulatory requirements.
This resulted in an increase in the proportion of variable remuneration deferred and created an accounting benefit that improved our total compensation ratio by 1% in 2017.
This accounting benefit has partly unwound in 2018.
Despite this change and an increase in headcount, we have maintained our total compensation ratio at 43%.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 25 Business and financial review continued Asset Management Asset Management net operating revenue increased 3% to Certain management directly involved in the relevant business may 1,788.8 million 2017: 1,743.3 million, including performance hold interests in the carried interest vehicles that entitle them to fees and net carried interest of 54.6 million 2017: 77.5 million.
receive a share of this return.
We report the Groups right to receive Net carried interest of 28.4 million was generated by our private carried interest net of this third-party share where the right is not assets business.
It represents our rights to share in the returns from linked to current employment, with separate disclosures provided certain investment vehicles when these vehicles have delivered within the notes to the financial statements.
Further information on specified investment returns for investors.
the accounting for carried interest is set out below.
An explanation of carried interest Carried interest is similar to the performance fees we earn on recognise carried interest when we believe there is a low our core business, but is part of private asset and alternative fee probability of a significant risk of reversal, which is an accounting structures.
We receive carried interest over a longer timeframe requirement.
This means that we do not recognise carried compared with the typical one year for performance fees.
As interest until the latter part of the relevant vehicles life, which with performance fees, carried interest is earned once clients normally means it is in the distribution phase.
We recognise a have received their original capital investment and preferred financial liability where we share carried interest with return.
Once we have achieved the preferred return for clients, management and others involved in the development of the there is normally a catch-up phase where returns are allocated business, including the former owners.
Carried interest payable fully to the carried interest holder until the total returns are split is determined on a similar basis but, based on accounting rules, in accordance with the agreed proportions.
For Schroder Adveq, there are lower thresholds to record the charge, which means this is typically 90 10 in favour of the clients with subsequent that we generally recognise a third-party interest in carried returns normally shared in the same proportion.
We generally interest as an expense earlier than the related income.
only receive carried interest distributions from the vehicle once We have rights to receive carried interest from 74 investment clients have received their original capital investment and their vehicles.
The relevant investment vehicles have a weighted preferred return, which can only occur following the realisation average age of approximately 10 years and would typically be of a portion of the underlying investments.
liquidated after a period of around 15 years.
In accordance with the accounting rules, we accrue for carried The chart below illustrates how returns are allocated on the interest as it is earned but normally before it becomes basis that the fund has not yet made any distributions to receivable.
We determine our accrued right to income based on investors and that the preferred return continues to grow.
an estimate of the amount of carried interest that we expect to Thepreferred return and catch-up will stop growing when these receive over the life of the vehicles.
This assessment requires us distributions are made.
to estimate the returns that will crystallise when the underlying investments are sold and the preferred return is paid to investors based on the expected timing of distributions.
We only Rights to carried interest arise once a preferred return has been achieved for investors Once the preferred return has been achieved a catch-up phase arises, during which we receive all the investment returns until the total returns are split in accordance with theinvestment agreement After the catch-up phase, returns are shared in accordance with the investment agreement A proportion of our carried interest is shared with relevant employees and others who have been directly involved in developing the relevant business and is recognised as a financial liability The accounting policies for carried interest receivable and Year payable are set out in note 2 of the financial statements.
Investor return Catch-up phase Shared return 26 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Return Preferred return Total return hurdle Strategic report Excluding performance fees and net carried interest, the net Assets under management 407.2bn operating revenue margin on average AUM was 45 basis points 2017: 45 basis points.
This was in line with our expectations as external fee pressures were largely offset by the positive effect of 1 Institutional 242.3bn changes in business mix, including our growth in private assets and alternatives and the impact of market movements.
In our Institutional sales channel, the net operating revenue margin was slightly lower than 2017 at 31 basis points 2017: 32 basis points, with growth in higher margin private assets and alternatives products and positive investment returns only partially offsetting outflows from equity strategies and the impact of market-wide pricing pressures.
There were 25.5 million of performance fees 2017: 57.6 million and 28.4 million of net carried interest 2017: nil.
The net operating revenue margin for the Intermediary sales channel, before performance fees, remained unchanged at 72 basis points in 2018 2017: 72 basis points.
We generated 0.7 million of performance fees 2017: 19.9 million.
UK 39% Total Asset Management net income increased by 2% to Asia Pacic 24% 1,801.2 million 2017: 1,757.9 million, which includes 15.7 million Europe, Middle East and Africa 17% of income from our share of profits from joint ventures and associates Americas 20% 2017: 20.8 million.
1 Operating expenses before exceptional items within the Intermediary 121.2bn Asset Management segment increased to 1,130.4 million 2017: 1,052.0 million as we continued to grow the business.
Non-compensation costs increased in line with business growth, and as we continued to make strategic acquisitions and investments in technology and infrastructure to support the future growth of the business.
In particular, in 2018 we completed the implementation of our new front office technology platform and moved into our new headquarters in London at 1 London Wall Place.
We continue to invest in technology, which is a strategic priority as set out in the Group Chief Executives review from page 6.
Profit before tax and exceptional items decreased by 5% to 670.8 million 2017: 705.9 million.
There were exceptional items of 82.6 million.
These typically relate to acquisitions including amortisation of acquired intangible assets but this year also UK 26% include 55.6 million relating to the cost reduction programme.
Asia Pacic 27% After exceptional items, profit before tax decreased Europe, Middle East and Africa 35% to 588.2 million 2017: 688.7 million.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 27 Business and financial review continued Wealth Management Financial strength and liquidity Wealth Management net income increased by 6% to 289.8 million The Groups net assets increased by 150.2 million during 2018 2017: 273.3 million, driven by net operating revenue, which was up to 3,621.2 million.
We generated total comprehensive income of 6% to 281.9 million 2017: 266.9 million.
519.5 million 2017: 580.4 million and distributed 311.7 million to shareholders in the form of the 2017 final and the 2018 interim Net operating revenue within Wealth Management comprises dividends 2017: 267.6 million.
management fees, performance fees, transaction fees and net banking interest income.
Management fees increased by 12.4 million The different forms of business that we conduct affect our total to 216.2 million, driven by an increase in average AUM of 5%.
Certain assets managed on behalf of investors were performance fees of 0.4 million 2017: 0.9 million.
Transaction are recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position, fees were slightly down from 2017 at 38.5 million 2017: 40.8 million while others are not.
The table below sets out how these assets are and net banking interest rose to 26.8 million 2017: 21.4 million.
broken down between on-balance sheet assets and others that form Netoperating revenue margins were unchanged from 2017 at part of our total AUM.
Within Asset Management, assets that are managed for clients AUA within the Benchmark Capital business contributed 7.5 million are not generally owned by the Group and are not recorded in the toother income 2017: 6.0 million.
Consolidated statement of financial position.
However, certain clients invest through life insurance policies that are managed by the Life Operating expenses before exceptional items were 196.4 million, Company.
The assets backing these policies are owned by the Life up 7% 2017: 183.0 million.
The increase was mainly driven by the Company and are included in the Consolidated statement of financial investments we have made in our wealth management systems and position along with a matching policyholder liability.
infrastructure and as we have grown the business.
Wealth Management principally provides investment management, Profit before tax and exceptional items increased 3% to 93.4 million advisory and banking services.
Exceptional items within Wealth Management subsidiaries provide banking services.
These entities are legally comprise mainly amortisation of acquired intangible assets and other responsible for the banking assets and liabilities and the relevant costs incurred in relation to acquisitions.
After exceptional items, AUM is therefore included in the consolidated statement of financial profitbefore tax grew by 1% to 68.0 million 2017: 67.4 million.
The assets are managed to earn a net interest margin within the Wealth Management segment with consideration of the liquidity Group segment demands that may arise from clients.
These assets are not made The Group segment comprises central management costs, returns available for general corporate purposes.
on investment capital, including income from financial instruments and our associate interests in RWC Partners Limited and Schroder Reflecting these structures, the Groups total assets decreased by Ventures Investment Limited, together with net returns from seed 2.9 billion to 19.6 billion at 31 December 2018.
Excluding those capital investments after hedging and co-investments arising through assets that form part of AUM, the Groups total assets increased to our private assets businesses.
Our assets comprise three components of investment capital, seed and co-investment capital, Net income for the Group segment was 32.9 million and other assets.
Costs in the Group segment increased by 7% to35.9 million 2017: 33.6 million.
This resulted in a loss before taxof 3.0 million 2017: profit of 4.1 million.
Not recorded in Statement of the Statement of financial position financial position Total bn bn bn Life Company 11.3 11.3 Other Asset Management 352.2 352.2 Total Asset Management 11.3 352.2 363.5 Wealth Management 3.2 40.5 43.7 Total AUM 14.5 392.7 407.2 Investment capital 0.6 Seed and co-investment capital 0.5 Other assets 4.0 Total Group assets excluding clients investments 5.1 Total Group assets 19.6 28 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Investment capital represents surplus assets held in excess of Dividends operating requirements.
It is managed in accordance with limits set In line with our dividend policy and as pre-exceptional profit after by the Board, with the aim of making a low volatility return.
The taxdecreased this year, the Board is recommending a final dividend Group Capital Committee is responsible for monitoring the of 79 pence per share.
It means a total dividend for the year of 114 investment capital portfolio with consideration of potential capital pence per share 2017: 113 pence per share and represents a and liquidity demands, including dividend distributions.
Investment capital is mainly comprised of investment grade corporate bonds and investments in our own pooled funds.
It is our policy to increase dividends Investment capital reduced by 213 million to 630 million progressively in line with the trend 2017: 843 million, largely owing to acquisitions.
Capital released from the operating businesses was more than offset by dividends inprofitability paid in the year as operating capital was retained to develop our offices and the front office technology platforms.
It is our policy to increase dividends progressively in line with the We deploy some of our capital to develop new organic investment trend in profitability, having regard to overall Group strategy, capital strategies or co-invest selectively alongside our clients.
Our seed requirements, liquidity and profitability.
This approach enables the and co-investment capital increased from 392 million at Group to maintain sufficient surplus capital to take advantage of 31 December 2017 to 535 million at the end of 2018. future investment opportunities while providing financial security to Other assets increased by 397 million to 3,978 million withstand possible risk scenarios and periods of economic downturn.
We intend to maintain a dividend payout ratio of around 50%.
This represents assets that support our ongoing operating activities.
determined as the total dividend per share in respect of the year, divided by the Groups pre-exceptional basic earnings per share.
In 2018, we continued to invest in the future growth of the business The distributable profits of Schroders plc are 2.8 billion with a number of acquisitions, the most significant of which was the acquisition of Algonquin in May 2018.
These acquisitions increased 2017: 2.7 billion and include retained profits of 2.9 billion 2017: 2.8 billion.
The Groups ability to pay dividends is, however, goodwill and intangible assets by 95.7 million, before amortisation and foreign exchange movements.
We have invested in our offices restricted by the need to hold regulatory capital and to maintain sufficient operating capital to support its ongoing business activities.
both in London and other locations, which increased fixed assets by 111.1 million before depreciation.
We are also investing in Operating capital requirements include co-investments with clients and seed capital investments in our funds to support new technology to support our strategic priorities, including a new front office technology platform, which completed this year.
investments increased our software assets by 90.8 million before Circumstances that could adversely impact the Groups ability to pay amortisation and foreign exchange movements.
Finally, we work dividends in line with the policy include a combination of significantly closely with the UK defined benefit DB pension scheme trustees, increased costs and a prolonged deterioration in markets or who use our asset management capabilities to manage the plan performance leading to reduced revenues and a consequential assets of the scheme.
During 2018, the surplus onour UK DB pension increase in the ratio of total costs to net income.
After deducting the scheme decreased by 7.3 million to 155.6 million, principally due to regulatory capital requirement and regulatory capital buffer, there market movements at the year end.
continues to be sufficient capital to maintain our current dividend The Groups liquidity and regulatory capital position remains strong level for at least three years before taking account of any future profits.
and further information on this is set out in note 19 of the financial statements.
Richard Keers Chief Financial Officer Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 29
