Strategic Report Business Review The Company aims to achieve a greater return than the FTSE Business Model All-World Index in sterling terms over a five year rolling period or Business and Status longer.
This benchmark is a reference point for considering The Company is an investment company within the meaning of performance and emphatically is not a portfolio construction tool.
section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and carries on business The portfolio does not set out to reproduce the index and there as an investment trust.
Investment trusts are UK public listed will be periods when performance diverges significantly from the companies and their shares are traded on the London Stock benchmark.
They invest in a portfolio of assets in order to spread Borrowings are invested in equity markets when it is believed that risk.
The Company has a fixed amount of share capital although, long term investment considerations merit the Company taking a subject to shareholder approval sought annually, it may purchase geared position.
Apart from in exceptional market conditions the its own shares or issue shares.
The price of the Companys shares Company will not take out additional borrowings if, at the time of is determined, like other listed shares, by supply and demand.
borrowing, this takes the level of gearing beyond 30% calculated The Company has been approved as an investment trust by HM in accordance with the Association of Investment Companies Revenue & Customs subject to the Company continuing to meet AIC guidelines.
In any event, the Company will not exceed the the eligibility conditions.
The Directors are of the opinion that the limit on borrowings set out in its Articles of Association, which Company has continued to conduct its affairs so as to enable it to provide that the amount of all the Companys borrowings shall comply with the ongoing requirements of section 1158 of the not, without the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution of Corporation Tax Act 2010 and the Investment Trust Approved shareholders, exceed one half of the aggregate issued and fully Company Regulations 2011. paid share capital and capital reserves of the Company and, in The Company is an Alternative Investment Fund AIF for the addition, that the Company may from time to time borrow for purposes of the EU Alternative Investment Fund Managers temporary purposes sums not exceeding 20% of the Companys Directive.
issued and fully paid share capital.
The Managers Core Investment Beliefs with respect to the Investment Objective Company are set out on page 17.
Scottish Mortgage carries on business as an investment trust.
The objective is to maximise total return from a portfolio of long Details of investment strategy and activity this year can be found term investments chosen on a global basis enabling the Company in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 4 and in the to provide capital and dividend growth.
Managers Review on pages 11 to 16.
A detailed analysis of the Companys investment portfolio is set out on pages 18 to 24.
Investment Policy Investment is predominantly in equities.
The number of equity Liquidity Policy holdings will typically range between 50 and 100 and the portfolio The Board recognises that it is in the long term interests of can be relatively concentrated.
Achieving diversification is a shareholders to manage discount premium volatility.
Whilst the requirement when selecting investments but an unconstrained Board believes that the primary driver of discounts over the longer approach is adopted and there are no fixed limits set as to term is performance, the relationship between the Companys geographical, industry and sector exposure.
Portfolio NAV and share price can be impacted in the shorter term by an concentration and levels of diversity are monitored by the Board imbalance of buyers and sellers in the market.
The maximum investment in any one holding is The Board does not have formal discount or premium targets at limited to 8% of total assets at the time of purchase.
which shares will be bought back or sold respectively, as it A long term investment horizon is observed and little attention is believes that the announcement of specific targets is likely to paid to short term market trends when deciding strategy.
This hinder rather than help the successful execution of a buyback patient approach allows market volatility to be exploited to issuance policy.
However it will undertake to aid the efficient shareholders long term advantage.
An average holding period for functioning of the market in its shares in normal market investments of five years or more is targeted.
conditions, to act when such a significant imbalance in supply and demand for the Companys shares exists.
The major part of the portfolio will be held in quoted equities with good liquidity.
Investment may also be made in fixed interest In furtherance of this policy, during the year the Company bought securities, convertible securities, funds, unquoted entities and back a total of 14,006,276 shares into treasury.
Between 1 April other assets based on the individual investment case.
The and 9 May 2018, no further shares were bought back.
During the maximum amount which may be invested in companies not listed year the Company sold 50,800,000 shares from treasury at a on a public market shall not exceed 25 per cent of the total premium to the net asset value.
Between 1 April and 9 May 2018, assets of the Company, measured at the time of purchase.
a further 8,800,000 shares were sold from treasury at a premium to net asset value.
With prior approval of the Board, the Company may use derivatives for the purpose of efficient portfolio management for In order to implement this strategy again over the coming year, the purpose of reducing, transferring or eliminating investment risk the Directors will seek the relevant authorities from shareholders in its investment portfolio, including protection against currency at the forthcoming AGM.
risk and for investment purposes.
The maximum permitted To prevent substantial demand for the Companys shares pushing investment in other UK listed investment companies in aggregate them to trade at a significant premium to the underlying NAV, the is 15% of gross assets.
Board will again seek shareholder authority to allot equity Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 07 Strategic Report securities, or sell treasury shares, for cash without having to offer Borrowings such shares to existing shareholders pro-rata to their existing There are four debentures in issue, all of which are listed and holdings, up to a total amount representing approximately 10 per quoted on the London Stock Exchange and details of which are cent.
of the Companys total issued Ordinary Share capital.
In addition, loan facilities are in place which are also shown on page 55.
Having regard to guidance previously received from the UKLA and consistent with the approach adopted in previous years, the During the year the US$165 million one year revolving loan with Directors wish to ensure that any such sale of Ordinary Shares The Royal Bank of Scotland plc RBS was repaid and replaced held in treasury or issue of new Ordinary Shares will not result in with a US$40 million one year revolving loan with RBS and the an inadvertent breach of the Listing Rules by virtue of the UKLA US$85 million three year fixed rate loan with RBS was re-financed determining that net asset value should be calculated on the with a two year revolving US$85 million loan with RBS.
basis of debt valued at par value, instead of the general market During the year the Company issued the following private understanding that net asset value is determined on the basis of placement unsecured loan notes: debt valued at fair value.
The Directors will therefore also seek to 45 million at a coupon of 3.05% maturing on 7 April 2042 renew the authority previously granted to issue shares at a discount to net asset value with debt at par value, in order to 30 million at a coupon of 3.30% maturing on 6 April 2044 continue to protect against any such inadvertent breach.
The 30 million at a coupon of 3.12% maturing on 6 April 2047 Directors wish to stress that they will in no circumstances seek to issue Ordinary Shares including Ordinary Shares held in treasury A further unsecured loan note was agreed for funding on for cash at a price below the net asset value per share on the 30 September 2020 to refinance the 20 million 814% stepped basis of debt valued at fair value.
interest debenture stock maturing on 30 September 2020: The Directors are further seeking shareholders approval at the 20 million at a coupon of 3.65% maturing on 6 April 2044 Annual General Meeting to renew the authority to purchase up to Additionally, following the year end, the RBS US$40 million one 14.99 per cent.
of the Ordinary Shares in issue from the date of year revolving loan was refinanced on 11 April 2018 with a US$80 grant of the authority to the date of the Annual General Meeting in million three year revolving loan with RBS.
Such purchases will only be made at a discount to the prevailing net asset value.
Any such shares which are bought Principal Risks back may be held in treasury and may subsequently then either As explained on page 33 there is a process for identifying, be sold for cash or cancelled.
evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Company on a regular basis.
The Directors have carried out a robust assessment Performance of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency performance measures to assess the Companys success in or liquidity.
A description of these risks and how they are being achieving its objectives.
managed or mitigated is set out below: Key Performance Indicators Financial Risk the Companys assets consist mainly of listed The key performance indicators KPIs used to measure the securities and its principal financial risks are therefore market progress and performance of the Company over time are related and include market risk comprising currency risk, interest established industry measures and are as follows: rate risk and other price risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of those risks and how they are managed is the movement in net asset value per ordinary share after contained in note 19 to the Financial Statements on pages 58 deducting borrowings at fair value : to 64.
To mitigate these risks, the Board considers at each the movement in the share price: meeting various metrics including portfolio concentration, regional and industrial sector weightings, top and bottom stock the movement of net asset value and share price performance contributors to performance and contribution to performance by compared to the Benchmark: industrial sector.
The Managers provide the rationale for stock the premium discount after deducting borrowings at fair value : selection decisions and both the investment strategy and portfolio ongoing charges ratio: risk are formally considered in detail at least annually.
revenue return: and Unlisted Investments the Companys risk could be increased by its investment in unlisted investments.
These assets may dividend per share.
be more difficult to buy or sell, so changes in their prices may An explanation of these measures can be found in the Glossary of be greater than for listed investments.
To mitigate this risk, the Board considers the unlisted investments The one, five and ten year records of the KPIs are shown on in the context of the overall investment strategy and provides pages 5, 6 and 25. guidance to the Managers on the maximum exposure to unlisted In addition to the above, the Board considers performance investments.
The investment policy limits the amount which may against other companies within the AIC Global Sector.
be invested in unlisted companies to 25 per cent of the total assets of the Company, measured at time of purchase.
08 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Investment Strategy Risk pursuing an investment strategy to Leverage Risk the Company may borrow money for investment fulfil the Companys objective which the market perceives to be purposes.
If the investments fall in value, any borrowings will unattractive or inappropriate, or an ineffective implementation of an magnify the impact of this loss.
If borrowing facilities are not attractive or appropriate strategy, may lead to reduced returns for renewed, the Company may have to sell investments to repay shareholders and, as a result, a decreased demand for the borrowings.
To mitigate this risk, all borrowings require the prior Companys shares.
This may lead to the Companys shares trading approval of the Board and leverage levels are discussed by the at a widening discount to their net asset value.
To mitigate this risk, Board and Managers at every meeting.
Covenant levels are the Board regularly reviews and monitors the Companys objective monitored regularly.
The majority of the Companys investments and investment policy and strategy, the investment portfolio and its are in quoted securities that are readily realisable.
Further performance, the level of discount premium to Net Asset Value at information on leverage can be found on page 69 and the which the shares trade and movements in the share register.
Glossary of Terms on page 74.
Discount Risk the discount premium at which the Companys Political Risk Political developments are closely monitored and shares trade relative to its net asset value can change.
The risk of considered by the Board.
The Board has noted the Governments a widening discount is that it may undermine investor confidence intention that the UK should leave the European Union on 29 March in the Company.
To manage this risk, the Board monitors the level 2019.
Whilst there is considerable uncertainty at present, the Board of discount premium at which the shares trade and the Company will continue to monitor developments as they occur and assess has authority to buy back its existing shares when deemed by the the potential consequences for the Companys future activities.
Board to be in the best interests of the Company and its Viability Statement shareholders.
In accordance with provision C2.2 of the UK Corporate Regulatory Risk failure to comply with applicable legal and Governance Code that the Directors assess the prospects of the regulatory requirements such as the tax rules for investment trust Company over a defined period, the Directors have elected to do companies, the UKLA Listing Rules and the Companies Act could so over a period of 10 years.
The Directors continue to believe lead to suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange listing, this period to be appropriate as the investment objective of the financial penalties, a qualified audit report or the Company being Company is aimed at investors with a 5 to 10 year investment subject to tax on capital gains.
To mitigate this risk, Baillie Giffords horizon and, subject to the assumptions detailed below, the Business Risk, Internal Audit and Compliance Departments Directors do not expect there to be any significant change to the provide regular reports to the Audit Committee on Baillie Giffords current principal risks facing Scottish Mortgage nor to the monitoring programmes.
Major regulatory change could impose adequacy of the controls in place to effectively mitigate those disproportionate compliance burdens on the Company.
Furthermore, the Directors do not reasonably envisage any circumstances representation is made to ensure that the special change in strategy or any events which would prevent the circumstances of investment trusts are recognised.
Shareholder Company from operating over a 10 year period.
documents and announcements, including the Companys published Interim and Annual Report and Financial Statements, Assumption 1 are subject to stringent review processes, and procedures are in There is no significant adverse change to the regulatory place to ensure adherence to the Transparency Directive and the environment and tax treatment enjoyed by UK investment trusts.
Market Abuse Directive with reference to inside information.
Assumption 2 Custody and Depositary Risk safe custody of the Companys The Company does not suffer sustained inadequate relative assets may be compromised through control failures by the investment performance with the current or any successor fund Depositary, including cyber security incidents.
To mitigate this risk, managers such that the Company fails to maintain a supportive the Board receives six monthly reports from the Depositary shareholder base.
confirming safe custody of the Companys assets held by the Using the long term expectations of shareholders as the main Custodian.
Cash and portfolio holdings are independently determinant of the chosen assessment period, the Directors have reconciled to the Custodians records by the Managers.
The conducted a robust assessment of the principal risks and Custodians audited internal controls reports are reviewed by uncertainties facing the Company as detailed on pages 8 and 9 Baillie Giffords Internal Audit Department and a summary of the and in particular the impact of market risk where a significant fall key points is reported to the Audit Committee and any concerns in global equity markets would adversely impact the value of the investigated.
In addition, the existence of assets is subject to investment portfolio.
In reviewing the viability of the Company, the annual external audit.
Directors have considered the key characteristics of the Company Operational Risk failure of Baillie Giffords systems or those of which include an investment portfolio that takes account of other third party service providers could lead to an inability to different degrees of liquidity, with moderate levels of debt and a provide accurate reporting and monitoring or a misappropriation business model where substantially all of the essential services of assets.
To mitigate this risk, Baillie Gifford has a comprehensive required are outsourced to third party providers: this outsourcing business continuity plan which facilitates continued operation of structure allows key service providers to be replaced at relatively the business in the event of a service disruption or major disaster.
The Board reviews Baillie Giffords Report on Internal Controls and the reports by other key third party providers are reviewed by Baillie Gifford on behalf of the Board.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 09 Strategic Report The Directors have also considered the Companys leverage and Gender Representation liquidity in the context of fixed term debentures, the private The Board comprises five Directors, three male and two female.
placement loan notes issued during the year and short term bank The Company has no employees.
The Boards policy on diversity loans, the revenue projections, the readily realisable nature of the is set out on page 33. listed portfolio which could be sold to provide funding if necessary Environmental, Social and Governance Policy and its stable closed ended structure.
Specific leverage and liquidity stress testing was conducted during the year.
The Details of the Companys policy on socially responsible investment can be found under Corporate Governance and Stewardship on Directors have concluded that these sustainable long term characteristics provide a high degree of flexibility to the Company page 34. and afford an ability to react so as to mitigate both controllable The Company considers that it does not fall within the scope of and most external uncontrollable risks and events in order to the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and it is not, therefore, obliged to ensure the long term prosperity of the business.
make a slavery and human trafficking statement.
In any event, the Based upon the Companys processes for monitoring operating Company considers its supply chains to be of low risk as its suppliers are typically professional advisers.
A statement by the costs, share price premium discount, the Managers compliance with the investment objective, the portfolio risk profile, leverage, Managers under the Act has been published on the Managers website at www.
counterparty exposure, liquidity risk and financial controls, the Board believes that the prospects of the Company are sound and Future Developments of the Company the Directors are able to confirm that they have a reasonable The outlook for the Company is set out in the Chairmans expectation that it will continue in operation and meet its liabilities Statement on pages 2 to 4 and the Managers Report on pages as they fall due over a period of at least 10 years.
Employees, Human Rights and Community Issues The Strategic Report which includes pages 2 to 25 was approved The Board recognises the requirement to provide information by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf on 22 May 2018. about employees, human rights and community issues.
As the Company has no employees, all its Directors are non-executive and all its functions are outsourced, there are no disclosures to be Fiona McBain made in respect of employees, human rights and community Chairman issues.
Further information on the Companys approach to environmental, social and governance ESG matters is provided on page 34.
