Business review The strategic report on pages 2 to 28 has been prepared to help Principal activity shareholders assess how the Company has performed and to The Company carries on business as an investment trust with a view understand its objectives and policies.
The business review section to achieving the Company's investment objective.
Investment of the strategic report discloses the Companys risks and uncertainties companies are a way for investors to make a single investment that as identified by the Board, the key performance indicators used by gives a share in a much larger portfolio.
A type of collective investment, the Board to measure the Companys performance, the strategies they allow investors to spread risk and diversify into investment used to implement the Companys objectives, and the Companys opportunities that may not otherwise be easily accessible to them.
environmental, social and ethical policy.
More information can be found on the AIC website, via the following link: http: www.
Investment objective The Companys investment objective is to achieve long-term capital growth through investing in a diversified portfolio with a focus on UK companies, both quoted and unquoted.
As these companies evolve, the geographical profile of the portfolio may change to become more global in nature for reasons such as an overseas listing or as the result of changes to capital values of a non-UK company versus a UK company.
The Company will aim to deliver a return in excess of 10 per cent per annum over the longer term.
This is a target only, not a profit forecast, and there can be no assurance that it will be met.
Investment policy Asset allocation and risk diversification The Company invests in a diversified portfolio with a focus on UK companies either incorporated in the UK or traded on a UK exchange, both quoted and unquoted.
As these companies evolve, the geographical profile of the portfolio may also change to become more global in nature for reasons such as an overseas listing or as the result of changes to the capital value of a non-UK company.
The Company invests in: early-stage companies, which are likely to include both quoted and unquoted companies: and midand large-capitalisation quoted, mature companies.
The actual portfolio composition at any one time will reflect the opportunities available to the Portfolio Manager, the performance of the underlying investee companies and the maturity of the portfolio.
The Companys portfolio will typically consist of 50-100 holdings.
The Company may become a significant shareholder in any of the underlying portfolio companies.
The Company's portfolio is constructed on the basis of an assessment of the fundamental value of individual securities and is not structured on the basis of sector weightings.
The Company's portfolio is diversified across a number of sectors and, while there are no specific limits placed on exposure to any one sector, the Company will at all times invest and manage the portfolio in a manner consistent with spreading investment risk.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 23 Business review CONTINUED Investment restrictions An in-depth valuation of each investment is performed independently The Company is subject to the following investment restrictions: by IHSMarkit using information publicly available, in addition to that investment in unquoted companies will be limited to 80 per cent supplied by the Companys investee companies.
A valuation occurs: of gross assets at the time of investment: i at the time of initial investment, ii with a semi-annual frequency the Companys portfolio shall be invested in a minimum of 40 thereafter and iii as required where a triggering event has occurred.
holdings: the Company shall not invest more than 10 per cent of its NAV at A triggering event may include any of the following: the time of initial investment in an investee company save that the a subsequent round of financing whether pro rata or otherwise Portfolio Manager may make further investments into an investee by the relevant investee company.
company subject to an aggregate investment limit in any investee a significant or material milestone achieved by the relevant company of 20 per cent of NAV at the time of investment: investee company.
the Company may invest in other investment funds, including a secondary transaction involving the relevant investee company listed closed-ended investment funds, to gain investment on which sufficient information is available.
exposure, but such investment will be unleveraged and other a change in the makeup of the management of the relevant than in relation to investment in money market funds for the investee company.
purposes of cash management limited, in aggregate, to 10 per a material change in the recent financial performance or expected cent of NAV at the time of investment: and future financial performance of the relevant investee company.
with respect to cash deposits, the Company shall not have a material change in the market environment in which the relevant exposure of more than 10 per cent of NAV, at the time of investee company operates: or investment, to any one issuer.
a significant movement in market indices or economic indicators.
Borrowing Once a valuation review has been established, fair value will be The Company employs gearing of up to 20 per cent of NAV, assumed to be representative of fair value each business day until calculated at the time of borrowing, for the purpose of capital a valuation change is enacted by the AIFM, who is the decision-maker flexibility, including for investment purposes.
on valuations and enacts the price change.
Where the AIFM considers such an adjustment to be material the AIFM will The Board oversees the level of gearing in the Company, and will inform the Board of the nature and reasons for the adjustment, with review the position with the Portfolio Manager on a regular basis.
appropriate commentary from the Portfolio Manager.
Hedging Business model The Portfolio Managers policy is to leave currency exposures The management of the Company's assets and the Company's unhedged unless the investment view points to sterling appreciation administration has been outsourced to third-party service providers.
If such a view is held, the Portfolio The Board has oversight of the key elements of the Company's Manager may introduce hedges against specific currencies to strategy, including the following: protect the sterling value of the portfolio's overseas holdings.
the Company's level of gearing.
The Company has a maximum limit of 20 per cent of NAV at the time of borrowing.
The Board will oversee the use of hedging in the Company, and will the Company's investment policy, which determines the diversity review the position with the Portfolio Manager on a regular basis.
of the Company's portfolio.
the appointment, amendment or removal of the Company's Cash management third-party service providers.
While it is intended that the Company will be fully invested in normal an effective system of oversight over the Company's risk market conditions, the Company may hold cash on deposit or invest management and corporate governance.
on a temporary basis in a range of debt securities and cash equivalent the Board regularly reviews the premium discount to NAV.
There is no restriction on the amount of cash or cash equivalent instruments that the Company may hold and there may be In order to effectively undertake its duties, the Board may seek expert times when it is appropriate for the Company to have a significant cash legal advice.
It also can call upon the advice of the Company Secretary.
position instead of being fully or near fully invested.
Premium discount management Unquoted securities valuation policy The Board monitors the discount at which the Company's ordinary The pricing of unquoted securities, in line with Financial Conduct shares trade in relation to the Company's underlying NAV and takes Authority regulations, is solely the responsibility of the appointed action accordingly.
During the period under review, the Company's Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM, Link Fund Solutions ordinary shares consistently traded at a discount to its underlying Limited.
Link provides independent oversight of pricing and conducts NAV.
There are various demands on capital that will include new its own Fair Value Pricing Committee FVPC with the support of an investments, follow-on investments and a reduction of debt.
The independent valuation firm it employs IHSMarkit.
choice as to whether this capital is used to manage the discount will depend on, amongst other things, the shape of the portfolio, Links Fair Value Pricing Policy provides an objective, consistent and the financial cycle and the performance of the companys share transparent basis for estimating the fair value of unquoted equity price and NAV.
As the portfolio matures, the Board will keep the use securities in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard FRS of cash under review.
102 as well as International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines.
24 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc As a means of controlling the discount at which the shares may, request that action is taken to bear pressure on the companies in from time to time, trade, the Board may seek shareholder authority which the Portfolio Manager invests on behalf of the Company to to buy back ordinary shares.
The Directors have not bought back any ensure the highest standards are maintained.
The Portfolio shares under the authority granted at the annual general meeting Manager aims to exercise its votes at the shareholders meetings AGM held on 12 June 2018.
At the forthcoming AGM, the Board is of the Companys underlying holdings in every situation it can.
In seeking to renew this authority.
addition, the Portfolio Manager meets regularly with the management of many of the Companys underlying holdings and Board diversity encourages high standards with regard to each companys The Board consists of six non-executive Directors, three of whom are approach to social, environmental, human rights, community and female.
The Board acknowledges the benefits of greater diversity employee matters.
and remains committed to ensuring that the Companys Directors bring a wide range of skills, knowledge, experience, backgrounds and perspectives to the Board.
The following objectives for the appointment of Directors have been established: all Board appointments will be made on merit, in the context of the skills, knowledge and experience that are needed for the Board to be effective: and long lists of potential non-executive Directors should include diverse candidates of appropriate merit.
Corporate and operational structure Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD In accordance with the AIFMD, the Company has appointed Link Fund Solutions Limited to act as its AIFM.
The AIFM has in turn appointed Woodford Investment Management Ltd to act as its Portfolio Manager, to manage the Companys assets.
The AIFM monitors the Portfolio Manager of the Company and ensures that the Companys assets are valued appropriately in accordance with the relevant regulations and guidance.
In addition, the Company has appointed The Northern Trust Company as a delegate of the depositary to provide custody services to the Company as required by the AIFMD.
Operational and portfolio management In addition to the above, the Company has outsourced its operations to the following service providers: Link Company Matters Limited has been appointed to act as the Company Secretary: Northern Trust Global Services Limited Northern Trust has been appointed to act as the Companys investment accountant and administrator: Link Market Services Limited has been appointed as the Companys registrar: and Winterflood Investment Trusts a division of Winterflood Securities Limited has been appointed to act as the Companys corporate broker and financial adviser.
Environment, social, human rights, community and employee issues The Board has high standards on all issues that concern the environment, social matters, human rights, community and employees.
The Company has no employees and all of its Board members are non-executive.
There are therefore no disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The Board has delegated the Companys day-to-day operations and investment decisions to third-party service providers.
The Portfolio Manager considers, among other things, the environment, social and human rights, employee and community implications of the companies within which it invests the Companys assets and has regular meetings with members of the investment management team who provide detailed feedback on the affairs of the Companys underlying holdings.
The Portfolio Manager can Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 25
