249336 WWH pp01-pp25 03 07 2018 12:25 Page 20 Strategic Report Business Review The aim of the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 25 is to All Directors seek election or re-election by shareholders at provide shareholders with the ability to assess how the each Annual General Meeting.
Directors have performed their duty to promote the success Board focus and responsibilities of the Company.
With the day to day management of the Company outsourced The Strategic Report contains certain forward-looking to service providers the Boards primary focus at each Board meeting is reviewing the investment performance and statements.
These statements are made by the Directors based on the information available to them at the time of associated matters, such as, inter alia, future outlook and strategy, gearing, asset allocation, investor relations, their approval of this report and such statements should be marketing, and industry issues.
treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties, including both economic and business risk factors, In line with its primary focus, the Board retains responsibility underlying any such forward-looking information.
for all the key elements of the Companys strategy and business model, including: Business Model Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC is an investment trust and the Investment Objective, Policy and Benchmark, has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Its incorporating the investment and derivative guidelines and investment objective is set out on page 6.
In seeking to limits, and changes to these: achieve this objective, the Company employs Frostrow Capital the maximum level of gearing and leverage the Company LLP Frostrow as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager may employ: AIFM, OrbiMed Capital LLC OrbiMed as its Portfolio a review of performance against the Companys KPIs: Manager, J. P. Morgan Europe Limited as its Depositary and a review of the performance and continuing appointment J. P. Morgan Securities LLC as its Custodian and Prime of service providers: and Broker.
Further details about their appointments can be the maintenance of an effective system of oversight, risk found in the Report of the Directors on pages 28 and 29.
The management and corporate governance.
Board has determined an investment objective, policy and related guidelines and limits, as described on pages 6 and 7.
The Investment Objective, Policy, and Benchmark, including the related limits and guidelines, are set out on pages 6 and 7, The Company is subject to UK and European legislation and along with details of the gearing and leverage levels allowed.
regulations including UK company law, UK GAAP, the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, the UK Details of the principal KPIs and further information on the Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure and Transparency Rules, principal service providers, their performance and continuing taxation law and the Companys own Articles of Association.
appointment, along with details of the principal risks, and how they are managed, follow within this Business Review.
The Company is an investment company within the meaning of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and has been approved The Corporate Governance report, on pages 32 to 39, includes by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust for the a statement of compliance with corporate governance codes purposes of Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act and best practice, and the Business Review pages 22 to 24 2010.
As a result the Company is not liable for taxation on includes details of the internal control and risk management capital gains.
The Directors have no reason to believe that framework within which the Board operates.
approval will not continue to be retained.
Key performance indicators KPI The Board The Board assesses the Companys performance in meeting The Board of the Company comprises Sir Martin Smith its objectives against key performance indicators also Chairman, Sarah Bates, Dr David Holbrook, Doug referred to as Alternative Performance Measures as follows: McCutcheon and Humphrey van der Klugt.
All of these Net asset value NAV per share total return against the Directors served throughout the year and are independent Benchmark: non-executive Directors.
Samuel D. Isaly left the Board on 12 Discount premium of share price to NAV per share: and January 2018.
Mr Isaly was not considered by the Board to be Ongoing charges ratio.
Subsequent to the year-end, Sven Borho joined the Board on 7 June 2018.
He is not considered by the Board Information on the Companys performance is provided in the to be an independent Director.
Chairmans Statement and the Portfolio Managers Review and a record of these measures is shown on pages 1, 2 and 3.
Further information on the Directors can be found on Further information regarding these Alternative Performance pages 26 and 27.
Measures can be found in the Glossary beginning on page 72.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 20 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 249336 WWH pp01-pp25 03 07 2018 12:25 Page 21 Strategic Report Business Review NAV per share total return against the Benchmark administrative and secretarial services: The Directors regard the Companys NAV per share total advice and guidance in respect of corporate governance return as being the overall measure of value delivered to requirements: shareholders over the long term.
This reflects both net asset maintenance of the Companys accounting records: value growth of the Company and dividends paid maintenance of the Companys website: to shareholders.
preparation and dispatch of annual and half year reports The Board considers the most important comparator, against and monthly fact sheets: and which to assess the NAV per share total return performance, ensuring compliance with applicable legal and regulatory to be the MSCI World Health Care Index measured on a net requirements.
total return, sterling adjusted basis.
As noted on page 6 During the year, under the terms of the AIFM Agreement, Frostrow and OrbiMed have flexibility in managing the Frostrow received a fee as follows: investments and are not limited by the constraints of the Benchmark.
As a result, investment decisions may be made On market capitalisation up to 150 million: 0.3%: in the that differentiate the Company from the Benchmark and range 150 million to 500 million: 0.2%: in the range therefore the Companys performance may also be different 500 million to 1 billion: 0.15%: in the range 1 billion to to that of the Benchmark.
In addition, Frostrow receives a fixed fee per annum of 57,500.
A full description of performance during the year under review is contained in the Portfolio Managers Review beginning on Frostrow is no longer entitled to performance fees, however page 12 of this Annual Report.
it was entitled to receive any performance fee that Share price discount premium to NAV per share crystallised during the year ended 31 March 2018 in respect The share price discount premium to NAV per share is of cumulative outperformance attained by 31 March 2017. considered a key indicator of performance as it impacts the Portfolio Manager share price total return of shareholders and can provide an OrbiMed under the terms of its portfolio management indication of how investors view the Companys performance agreement with the AIFM and the Company provides, inter and its Investment Objective.
alia, the following services: Ongoing charges ratio the seeking out and evaluating of investment The Board continues to be conscious of expenses and works opportunities: hard to maintain a balance between good quality service and recommending the manner by which monies should be costs.
invested, disinvested, retained or realised: Principal service providers advising on how rights conferred by the investments The principal service providers to the Company are the AIFM, should be exercised: Frostrow Capital LLP Frostrow, the Portfolio Manager, analysing the performance of investments made: and OrbiMed Capital LLC OrbiMed, the Custodian and Prime advising the Company in relation to trends, market Broker J. P. Morgan Securities LLC, and the Depositary, movements and other matters which may affect the J. P. Morgan Europe Limited.
Details of their key investment objective and policy of the Company.
responsibilities follow and further information on their contractual arrangements with the Company are included in OrbiMed receives a base fee of 0.65% of NAV and a the Report of the Directors beginning on page 28. performance fee of 15% of outperformance against the Benchmark as detailed on page 28.
Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM Frostrow under the terms of its AIFM agreement with the Depositary, Custodian and Prime Broker Company provides, inter alia, the following services: J. P. Morgan Europe Limited acts as the Companys Depositary oversight of the portfolio management function delegated and J. P. Morgan Securities LLC as its Custodian and to OrbiMed Capital LLC: Prime Broker.
investment portfolio administration and valuation: risk management services: marketing and shareholder services: share price discount and premium management: Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 21 249336 WWH pp01-pp25 03 07 2018 12:25 Page 22 Strategic Report Business Review J. P. Morgan Europe Limited, as Depositary, must take the quality of the service provided and the quality and reasonable care to ensure that the Company is managed in depth of experience allocated by the Portfolio Manager to accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Investment the management of the portfolio and the long-term performance of the portfolio in absolute terms and by Funds Sourcebook, the AIFMD and the Companys Articles of Association.
The Depositary must in the context of this role reference to the Benchmark.
act honestly, fairly, professionally, independently and in the Principal risks interests of the Company and its shareholders.
In fulfilling its oversight and risk management responsibilities, the Board maintains a framework of key The Depositary receives a variable fee based on the size of the Company as set out on pages 28 and 29. risks which affect the Company and the related internal controls designed to enable the Directors to manage and or J. P. Morgan Europe Limited has discharged certain of its mitigate these risks.
The risks can be categorised under the liabilities as Depositary to J. P. Morgan Securities LLC.
Further following broad headings: details of this arrangement are set out on pages 28 and 29.
J. P. Investment including leverage risks : Morgan Securities LLC, as Custodian and Prime Broker, provides the following services under its agreement with the Company: Operational including financial, corporate governance, accounting, legal, cyber security and regulatory risks : and safekeeping and custody of the Companys investments and cash: Strategic including shareholder relations and share price processing of transactions: performance.
provision of an overdraft facility.
Assets up to 140% of the Further information on the internal control and risk value of the outstanding overdraft can be taken as management framework can be found below and information collateral.
Such assets may be used by the Prime Broker on the use of financial instruments and their associated and such use may include being loaned, sold, risks, including exposures to market risk and counterparty rehypothecated or transferred by the Prime Broker: and risk can be found in note 16 beginning on page 64. foreign exchange services.
The following section details the risks the Board consider to be AIFM and Portfolio Manager evaluation and the most significant to the Company.
re-appointment Market risks The performance of the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager is By the nature of its activities and Investment Objective, the reviewed continuously by the Board and the Companys Companys portfolio is exposed to fluctuations in market Management Engagement & Remuneration Committee the prices from both individual security prices and foreign Committee with a formal evaluation being undertaken each exchange rates and due to exposure to the global healthcare year.
As part of this process, the Committee monitors the sector, it is expected to have higher volatility than the wider services provided by the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager and market.
As such investors should be aware that by investing receives regular reports and views from them.
The Committee in the Company they are exposing themselves to market also receives comprehensive performance measurement risks and those additional risks specific to the sectors in reports to enable it to determine whether or not the which the Company invests, such as political interference in performance objectives set by the Board have been met.
In addition, the Company uses leverage both Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the appointment through derivatives and gearing the effect of which is to of the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager in March 2018 with a amplify the gains or losses the Company experiences.
positive recommendation being made to the Board.
To manage these risks the Board and the AIFM have The Board believes the continuing appointment of the AIFM appointed OrbiMed to manage the investment portfolio within and the Portfolio Manager, under the terms described on the remit of the investment objective and policy, and imposed page 21, is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
In various limits and guidelines, set out on pages 6 and 7.
These coming to this decision, it took into consideration, inter alia, limits ensure that the portfolio is diversified, reducing the the following: risks associated with individual stocks, and that the the quality of the service provided and the depth of maximum exposure through derivatives and an overdraft experience of the company management, company facility is limited.
The compliance with those limits and secretarial, administrative and marketing team that the guidelines is monitored daily by Frostrow and OrbiMed and AIFM allocates to the management of the Company: and reported to the Board monthly.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 22 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 249336 WWH pp01-pp25 03 07 2018 12:25 Page 23 Strategic Report Business Review In addition, OrbiMed reports at each Board meeting on the Company is, however, afforded protection in accordance with performance of the Companys portfolio, which encompasses SEC rules and U. S. legislation equal to the value of the assets the rationale for stock selection decisions, the make-up of that have been rehypothecated.
the portfolio, potential new holdings and, derivative activity This risk is managed by the Board through: and strategy further details on derivatives can be found in reviews of the arrangements with, and services provided note 16 beginning on page 64. by, the Depositary and the Custodian and Prime Broker to The Company does not currently hedge its currency exposure.
ensure that the security of the Companys assets is being maintained.
Legal opinions are sought, where appropriate, Investment management key person risk as part of this review.
Also, the Board regularly monitors There is a risk that the individuals responsible for managing the credit rating of the Companys Custodian and the Companys portfolio may leave their employment or may Prime Broker: be prevented from undertaking their duties.
monitoring of the assets taken as collateral further The Board manage this risk by: details can be found in note 16 beginning on page 64 : appointing OrbiMed, who operate a team environment reviews of OrbiMeds approved list of counterparties, the such that the loss of any individual should not impact on Companys use of those counterparties and OrbiMeds service levels: process for monitoring, and adding to, the approved receiving reports from OrbiMed at each Board meeting, counterparty list: such report includes any significant changes in the monitoring of counterparties, including reviews of internal make-up of the team supporting the Company: control reports and credit ratings, as appropriate: meeting the wider team, outside the designated lead by only investing in markets that operate DVP Delivery managers, at OrbiMeds offices and encouraging the Versus Payment settlement.
The process of DVP participation of the wider OrbiMed team in investor mitigates the risk of losing the principal of a trade during updates: and the settlement process: and delegating to the Management Engagement & J. P. Morgan Securities LLC is subject to regular Remuneration Committee, responsibility to perform an monitoring by J. P. Morgan Europe Limited, the Companys annual review of the service received from OrbiMed, Depositary, and the Board receives regular reports from including, inter alia, the team supporting the lead J. P. Morgan Europe Limited.
Service provider risk Counterparty risk The Board is reliant on the systems of the Companys service In addition to market and foreign currency risks, discussed providers and as such disruption to, or a failure of, those above, the Company is exposed to risk arising from the use of systems could lead to a failure to comply with law and counterparties.
If a counterparty were to fail, the Company regulations leading to reputational damage and or financial could be adversely affected through either delay in loss to the Company.
settlement or loss of assets.
To manage these risks the Board: The most significant counterparty the Company is exposed to is receives a monthly compliance report from Frostrow, J. P. Morgan Securities LLC which is responsible for the which includes, inter alia, details of compliance with safekeeping of the Companys assets and provides the overdraft applicable laws and regulations: facility to the Company.
As part of the arrangements with reviews internal control reports, key policies, including J. P. Morgan Securities LLC they may take assets, up to 140% of measures taken to combat cyber security issues, and also the value of the drawn overdraft, as collateral and have first the disaster recovery procedures of its service providers: priority security interest or lien over all of the Companys assets.
Such assets taken as collateral may be used, loaned, maintains a risk matrix with details of risks the Company sold, rehypothecated or transferred by J. P. Morgan Securities is exposed to, the controls relied on to manage those risks LLC, although the Company maintains the economic benefit and the frequency of the controls operation: and from the ownership of those assets it does not hold any of the receives updates on pending changes to the regulatory rights associated with those assets.
Any of the Companys and legal environment and progress towards the assets taken as collateral are not covered by the custody Companys compliance with these.
arrangements provided by J. P. Morgan Securities LLC.
The Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 23 249336 WWH pp01-pp25 03 07 2018 12:25 Page 24 Strategic Report Business Review Shareholder relations and share price performance risk Monitoring market activity, acting as a link between the The Company is also exposed to the risk, particularly if the Company, shareholders and other stakeholders: Frostrow maintains regular contact with sector broker analysts and investment strategy and approach are unsuccessful, that the Company may underperform resulting in the Company other research and data providers, and conducts periodic investor perception surveys, liaising with the Board to provide becoming unattractive to investors and a widening of the up-to-date and accurate information on the latest share price discount to NAV per share.
In managing this risk the Board: reviews the Companys Investment Objective in relation to Discount control mechanism DCM market, and economic, conditions and the operation of the The Board undertakes a regular review of the level of Companys peers: discount premium and consideration is given to ways in discusses at each Board meeting the Companys future which share price performance may be enhanced, including development and strategy: the effectiveness of marketing, share issuance and share buy-backs, where appropriate.
reviews the shareholder register at each Board meeting: actively seeks to promote the Company to current and The Board implemented the DCM in 2004.
This established a potential investors: and target level of no more than a 6% share price discount to the has implemented a discount control mechanism.
Under the DCM, the Companys shares being offered on the The operation of the discount control mechanism and stock market, when the discount reaches a level of 6% or Company promotional activities have been delegated to more, may be bought back and held as treasury shares See Frostrow, who report to the Board at each Board meeting on Glossary beginning on page 72.
Treasury shares can be sold these activities.
back to the market at a later date at a discount narrower Company promotion than that at which they were bought and no greater than a 5% The Company has appointed Frostrow to provide marketing discount to the cum income NAV per share.
and investor relations services, in the belief that a Shareholders should note, however, that it remains possible well-marketed investment company is more likely to grow for the share price discount to the NAV per share to be over time, have a more diverse and stable shareholder register greater than 6% on any one day.
This is due to the fact that and will trade at a superior rating to its peers.
the share price continues to be influenced by overall supply Frostrow actively promotes the Company in the following ways: and demand for the Companys shares in the secondary Engaging regularly with institutional investors, discretionary market.
The volatility of the NAV per share in an asset class wealth managers and a range of execution-only platforms: such as healthcare is another factor over which the Board Frostrow regularly talks and meets with institutional has no control.
investors, discretionary wealth managers and execution-only In recent years the Companys successful performance has platform providers to discuss the Companys strategy and to generated substantial investor interest.
Whenever there are understand any issues and concerns, covering both unsatisfied buying orders for the Companys shares in the investment and corporate governance matters: market, the Company has the ability to issue new shares at a Making Company information more accessible: Frostrow small premium to the cum income NAV per share.
This is an works to raise the profile of the Company by targeting key effective share price premium management tool.
groups within the investment community, holding annual Details of share issuance are set out on page 30.
No shares investment seminars, overseeing PR output and managing were repurchased during the year and to the date of this the Companys website and wider digital offering, including report.
Portfolio Manager videos and social media.
Social, economic and environmental matters Disseminating key Company information: Frostrow performs the Investor Relations function on behalf of the Company and The Directors, through the Companys Portfolio Manager, manages the investor database.
Frostrow produces all key encourage companies in which investments are made to corporate documents, distributes monthly Fact Sheets, adhere to best practice with regard to corporate governance.
Annual Reports and updates from OrbiMed on portfolio and In light of the nature of the Companys business there are no market developments: and relevant human rights issues and the Company does not have a human rights policy.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 24 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 249336 WWH pp01-pp25 03 07 2018 12:25 Page 25 Strategic Report Business Review The Company recognises that social and environmental The Directors also took into account the liquidity of the issues can have an effect on some of its investee companies.
portfolio when considering the viability of the Company over the next five years and its ability to meet liabilities as they fall The Company is an investment trust and so its own direct due.
In addition, the Board noted that shareholders have an environmental impact is minimal.
The Board of Directors opportunity to vote on the continuation of the Company every consists of six Directors, four of whom are resident in the UK, five years: a resolution regarding the continuance of the one in Canada and one in the U.
The Board holds the Company will next be put to shareholders at the Annual majority of its regular meetings in the United Kingdom, with General Meeting to be held in 2019. one meeting held each year in New York, and has a policy that travel, as far as possible, is minimal, thereby minimising The Directors do not expect there to be any significant the Companys greenhouse gas emissions.
Further details change in the principal risks that have been identified or the concerning greenhouse gas emissions can be found within adequacy of the mitigating controls in place, and do not the Report of the Directors on page 30. envisage any change in strategy or objectives or any events that would prevent the Company from continuing to operate Board diversity over that period as the Companys assets are liquid, its The Company supports the objectives of the Davies Report to commitments are limited and the Company intends to improve the performance of corporate boards by encouraging continue to operate as an investment trust.
The Directors the appointment of the best people from a range of differing believe that only a substantial financial crisis affecting the perspectives and backgrounds.
The Company recognises the global economy could have an impact on this assessment.
benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender, and will Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable continue to take them into account in its Board appointments.
expectation that the Company will be able to continue in Brexit operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next five year period.
The Board continues to consider the potential risks to the Company as a result of the UKs vote to leave the EU.
Alternative performance measures Currently, other than the impact of exchange rates on the The Financial Statements on pages 52 to 70 set out the Companys investment values which is covered under Market required statutory reporting measures of the Companys Risks, the Board does not consider that the Brexit vote has financial performance.
In addition, the Board assesses the significantly altered the risk profile of the Company as Companys performance against a range of criteria which are substantially all the Companys investments are based outside viewed as particularly relevant for investment trusts, which the EU, and the majority of shareholders are UK based.
are summarised on page 3 and explained in greater detail in Long term viability the Strategic Report, under the heading Key Performance The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the Indicators on pages 20 and 21. principal risks facing the Company including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, Performance and future developments solvency or liquidity.
The Board has drawn up a matrix of An outline of performance, investment activity and strategy, risks facing the Company and has put in place a schedule of and market background during the year, as well as the future investment limits and restrictions, appropriate to the outlook, is provided in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 Companys investment objective and policy, in order to and 5 and the Portfolio Managers Review and Sector Outlook mitigate these risks as far as practicable.
The principal risks on pages 12 to 19. and uncertainties which have been identified, and the steps It is expected that the Companys strategy will remain taken by the Board to mitigate these as far as possible, are unchanged in the coming year.
The Board believes it is appropriate to assess the Companys viability over a five year period.
This period is also deemed By order of the Board appropriate due to our Portfolio Managers long-term Frostrow Capital LLP investment horizon and also what we believe to be investors Company Secretary horizons, taking account of the Companys current position 15 June 2018 and the potential impact of the principal risks and uncertainties as shown on page 22 to 24.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 25
