Governance Accountability Audit and Compliance Committee report I regularly meet with the Ernst & Young LLP Dear Shareholder audit team as part of my ongoing review of I am pleased to present the Audit and their effectiveness.
As part of my year end Compliance Committee report for the review, I also met Ernst & Young LLPs Head year ended 31 March 2018.
My report of Audit Quality for UK Financial Services explains the Committees work this year.
and their Head of Assurance for UK Financial We held six meetings this year, four of Services to discuss their approach to audit which were coordinated with 3is external quality and what assurance had been taken reporting timetable.
In addition to the in connection with their audit of 3i.
Committees usual focus on internal controls The rest of the report sets out in detail the and the integrity of the Groups financial Committees activities in the year and is Membership during the year reporting, this year we spent time reviewing structured into four parts: managements approach to cyber risk, Name Membership status developments in tax reporting, preparations Governance Caroline Banszky Member since July 2014 and for the audit tender, which will take place this Report on the year Chairman since January 2015 summer, the implementation of IFRS 15 and Internal audit regulatory challenges arising from Brexit.
Jonathan Asquith Member since March 2011 External audit In advance of each Committee meeting, Stephen Daintith Member since October 2016 I look forward to engaging with you on the I met the Group Finance Director, the work of the Committee.
Martine Verluyten Member since November 2015 Group Financial Controller and the Heads Retired in June 2017 of Compliance and Internal Audit to discuss Caroline Banszky their reports as well as any relevant issues.
Chairman, Audit and Compliance Committee Other regular attendees at the Committee I also met privately with the external Auditor.
16 May 2018 meetings include the following: Group Chairman: Chief Executive: Group Finance Director: Group General Counsel: Group Financial Controller: the Head of Internal Audit: the Head of Compliance: and the external Auditor, Ernst&Young LLP.
Further information on the Audit and Compliance Committees terms of reference can be found on our website www.
com What the Committee reviewed in FY2018 Financial reporting Internal control and External audit Risk reviews risk management Annual and half-year reports Review of 3is system of Confirmation of the external Valuation reports and control and risk management Auditors independence recommending the Quarterly investment portfolio performance updates External and internal Policy and approval for valuation to the Board audit reports non-audit fees Key accounting judgements Review of strategy to and estimates Review of the viability The FY2018 Audit plan, address Brexit related statement and the supporting including significant audit Update on the relevant regulatory challenge stress test scenarios risks being the valuation of thematic reviews from the FRC the unquoted investment Regular reviews of compliance Update on cyber security Update on the Groups portfolio and the calculation with regulatory rules proposed implementation Update on HMRCs of carried interest as well Annual tax update, including of IFRS 15 Senior Accounting as the area of audit focus Investment Trust matters and Officer Certificates Reviewing the Annual report revenue recognition country by country reporting to ensure that it is fair, Review of the ICAAP Audit results report, including Reports on approach to balanced and understandable the results from testing Key tax policy and strategy Update on result of the reAudit Matters Litigation tender of the Groups existing Auditor performance finance outsourcing contract Liquidity and going concern and effectiveness Update on the Groups Upcoming audit Corporate Criminal tender process Sanctions policy 66 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 Governance Financial reporting regulators Going concern and viability Governance All members of the Committee are The Committee considered comment The Directors are required to make a letters and papers from the FRC, including statement in the Annual report as to 3is independent non-executive Directors.
The Board believes members have the their Year End Advice Letter to Audit long-term viability.
The Committee provides Committee Chairs and Finance Directors advice to the Board on the form and content necessary range of financial, risk, control and commercial experience required to and their published thematic reviews.
of the statement, including the underlying The Committee reviewed a paper prepared assumptions.
In advance of the year end the provide effective challenge to management.
In particular, the Board is satisfied that by management which detailed how they Committee reviewed the Groups proposed had taken due account of the matters raised stress test scenarios to support the Viability Caroline Banszky has the recent and relevant financial experience as outlined and the enhancements they proposed to Statement.
At the year end, the Committee relevant disclosures in the Annual report evaluated a report from management in the FRCs Corporate Governance Code.
The attendance of members at meetings and accounts 2018.
In particular, as 3i setting out its view of 3is long-term viability presents its results under its non-GAAP and content of the proposed Viability is shown in the table on page 63.
Investment basis as well as preparing Statement.
This report was based on the The Committee meets privately for part IFRS financial statements, the Committee Groups five-year strategic plan and covered of its meetings and also has regular private specifically reviewed managements forecasts for investments and realisations, meetings with the external Auditor, the assessment of the FRCs thematic review liquidity and leverage, including forecast Group Finance Director, the Head of Internal on APMs and managements consideration outcomes of the stress test of the plan and Audit and the Head of Compliance in the ofits recommendations.
forecast capital and liquidity performance absence of other management.
against an assessment of the Groups risk Taxation profile.
The three-year period was chosen Report on the year as it provided more certainty on the The Committee received an annual update Groups performance.
In addition to the areas of significant from the Head of Tax on the Groups taxation accounting judgement and monitoring the status together with a more general update Taking into account the assessment of the effectiveness of 3is risk management, the on the status of current and upcoming Groups stress testing results and its risk Committee particularly focused on a number legislative and regulatory changes.
appetite statement as disclosed on page of topics: This years reports covered tax transparency 44, the Committee agreed to recommend initiatives that have come into force, such the Viability statement and three-year Accounting policies and practices as country by country reporting and the viability period to the Board for approval.
publication online of 3is tax approach and The Committee discussed a report from strategy, as required by new UK tax rules for management on the new accounting Areas of accounting judgement large businesses.
standard IFRS 15 Revenue Recognition, and control focus which is effective for 3i from 1 April 2018.
The Committee pays particular attention The Committee discussed the key technical to matters it considers to be important decisions and interpretations required, and by virtue of their size, complexity, level of 3is approach to these, together with the judgement and potential impact on the Groups disclosure on the expected impact financial statements and wider business of IFRS 15 in the Financial review and model.
Significant areas of focus considered page 99 of the financial statements.
by the Committee are detailed in the table on the following page, alongside the actions taken by the Committee with appropriate challenge from the external Auditor to address them.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 67 Governance Accountability Audit and Compliance Committee report continued Area of significant attention What the Committee reviewed and concluded Valuation of the proprietary capital investment portfolio The most material area of judgement in the financial statements, On behalf of the Board, the Committee received quarterly reports and noted as a significant risk and Key Audit Matter by the external from the Chairman of the Valuations Committee and the external Auditor, relates to the valuation of the unquoted Proprietary Capital Auditor, with particular focus on the assumptions supporting the investment portfolio, which at 31 March 2018 was 5,806 million, unquoted asset investments, any valuation uncertainties and the or 83% of net assets, under the Investment basis.
proposed disclosure in the financial statements.
Members of the Committee also attend the Valuations Committee meetings.
In recognition of the importance of this area, the Board has a Valuations Committee to review the valuations policy, process and The detail on the key valuation considerations and the review application to individual investments.
This Committee provides andchallenge undertaken in the year is included in the Valuations quarterly oral reports to the Audit and Compliance Committee Committee report on pages 70 to 72. and the Board.
Carried interest payable and receivable Internal Audit reviews the carried interest balances and carry plan The valuation of the proprietary capital portfolio is a primary input into the carried interest payable and receivable balances, which are distributions made to plan participants before the payments are determined by reference to the valuation at 31 March 2018. made.
Summaries of the work done are included in updates to the Committee.
We are through the hurdle to recognise carried interest receivable from EFV on an accounting basis.
Carried interest receivable will be The Committee reviewed the carried interest payable and recognised in accordance with IFRS 15 from 1 April 2018. receivable as part of the overall summary prepared by management to support the Annual report and accounts 2018.
We are also through the hurdle to pay carried interest to investment teams on 3is proprietary capital invested in the 2010-2012 vintage.
In advance of the year end, the Committee reviewed a paper from management on the Groups proposed accounting policy for carried interest under IFRS 15, and the carried interest receivable from EFV in particular, and the proposed disclosure in the Annual report and accounts 2018.
Fair, balanced and understandable and the presentation of 3is results Under the UK Corporate Governance Code the Board should The Committee reviewed the Half-yearly and Annual financial establish arrangements to ensure the Annual report presents a fair, statements as well as the Quarterly Performance Updates with balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position management, focusing on the integrity and clarity of disclosure and prospects.
and enabling the Board to provide the fair, balanced and understandable confirmation to shareholders in the Annual report The Group prepares the non-GAAP Investment basis financial and accounts 2018. statements to ensure that its results remain understandable.
A report summarising the considerations for the Annual report and accounts 2018 was reviewed by the Committee in advance of the year end and a summary of the detailed procedures undertaken was prepared alongside the Annual report and accounts 2018.
The external Auditor also confirmed that the inclusion of the Investment basis remained consistent with the prior year.
68 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 Governance It also ensures that where fees for approved Assessing external Internal audit non-audit services are greater than a preaudit effectiveness The Committee continued to monitor determined limit, they are subject to the the scope, activity, and resources of the The Committee reviews the effectiveness Committee Chairmans prior approval.
Groups internal audit function, including of Ernst & Young LLP through the use of approving the internal audit plan and The Policy permits certain non-audit services questionnaires completed by management, whether the operating model remained to be procured, following approval, when by considering the extent of their contribution effective.
The Committee monitors Internal the Committee continues to see benefits for at its meetings throughout the course of the Audit activity quarterly, covering change the Group in engaging Ernst & Young LLP.
year, and in one-to-one meetings.
management and other areas of identified Examples of this include work: The FY2018 evaluation also reviewed the higher risk and reviewed Internal Audits that is closely related to the external audit: quality of the audit process, the use of self-assessment of quality in the year.
Ernst & Young LLPs valuation practice to where a detailed understanding of the The Committee concluded that the Internal support the audit of the portfolio valuations, Group is required: and Audit function remained appropriate.
the technical knowledge of the team and where Ernst & Young LLP is able to provide staff turnover within the Ernst & Young LLP Risk and internal control reviews a higher quality and or better value service audit team.
The Committee concluded than other potential providers.
The Committee is responsible on behalf of that the audit was effective and that there the Board for overseeing the effectiveness The key principle of our policy is that should be a resolution to shareholders to of the Groups risk management and internal permission to engage the external Auditor recommend the reappointment of control systems.
It monitors the activities of will always be refused when a threat Ernst & Young LLP at the 2018 AGM.
the Group Risk Committee GRC, the risk to independence and or objectivity is management processes in place and Internal perceived.
The Committee Chairman is Audit tender Audits assessment of the effectiveness asked to approve all assignments to be Ernst & Young LLP including its predecessor of controls, the use of the Groups allocated to Ernst & Young LLP over a firms has been the Groups external whistleblowing facility and compliance defined limit, other than those related to Auditor since November 1973.
In line with with the UK Bribery Act.
due diligence undertaken as part the Competition and Markets Authority of the Groups investment process.
As highlighted on page 44 in the Risk Statutory Audit Services Order, the Group Appointments in relation to the investment management section, a report summarising must appoint a new Auditor for its year process are independent of the audit each quarterly GRC meeting, along with ending 31 March 2021.
As noted in the team and are reviewed separately by the the risk report considered, is provided to FY2017 report, the Committee delayed the Investment Committee.
Ernst & Young the Committee for review and discussion.
rotation of the current auditor to no later LLP inform the Group of all due diligence In addition, the Head of Internal Audit than 2020 due to the scale of the current engagements before they accept them and prepares a report on internal controls engagements across the Group and its all material due diligence commitments are for presentation to the Committee.
portfolio companies with the firms that may reported to the Committee Chairman.
The review documents the components participate in any tender, as well as of the internal control framework and Ernst & Young LLP has reviewed its own the complexities around how the rules on highlights the key developments in the independence in line with these criteria non-audit services would apply, for example, year.
A commentary on the operation of and its own ethical guideline standards.
the internal control framework over the This includes the review of due diligence In May 2018, the Committee decided to put year is also independently prepared by processes undertaken within the Groups the Groups audit out to tender.
Based on its Internal Audit.
Additional information can investment activities.
Ernst & Young LLP has current timetable, it intends to recommend be found on page 64 of the Corporate confirmed to the Committee that following an alternative audit firm by September Governance report.
its review it is satisfied that it has acted in 2018.
Due to the time a new auditor will take accordance with relevant regulatory and to become independent, the Committee professional requirements.
External audit currently expects that Ernst & Young LLP will The Committee has responsibility for be retained as auditor until at least the end Audit and non-audit fees making recommendations to the Board on of FY2019 but that a new auditor will be in The total audit fee for the year was 1.9 million the reappointment of the external Auditor, place ahead of the deadline of 1 April 2020.
Non-audit fees paid determining their independence from the 3i is in compliance with the requirements to the external Auditor were 0.4 million Group and its management and agreeing of The Statutory Audit Services for Large 2017: 1.3 million.
The Committee concluded the scope and fee for the audit.
Companies Market Investigation Mandatory that all of these fees fell within its criteria for Use of Competitive Tender Processes and engaging Ernst & Young LLP and does not Auditor independence Audit Committee Responsibilities Order believe they pose a threat to the Auditors The Group has a policy for setting out what 2014, in the year ended 31 March 2018. independence or objectivity.
non-audit services can be purchased from the firm appointed as external Auditor.
The aim of the policy is to support and safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external Auditor and to comply with the FRCs Ethical Standards for auditors.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 69
