Governance Accountability Valuations Committee report I met the Group Finance Director and the Dear Shareholder Group Financial Controller in advance of I am pleased to present the Valuations each meeting to discuss the key valuation Committee report for the year ended assumptions.
I also met the external 31 March 2018.
My report explains the Auditor privately to discuss the results of role of the Committee as well as the their quarterly reviews.
In February 2018, workwe reviewed this year.
the external Auditor and I discussed their The Valuations Committee plays an approach to the year-end audit and the important role in providing the Board with assets that their specialist valuations team assurance that the valuation process is robust intended to select for their in-depth review.
We review In advance of the full-year and halfMembership during the year and challenge the assumptions behind year reporting, management hold managements proposed asset valuations Name Membership status individual portfolio company reviews and report to the Audit and Compliance with the respective investment teams.
David Hutchison Chairman and Member since Committee and the Board.
Non-executive Directors, including December 2013 During the year, we met four times as part members of the Committee, attended Simon Thompson Member since June 2015 of the Groups external reporting timetable.
a significant proportion of the meetings Our principal focus continued to be the held in September 2017 and March 2018 Stephen Daintith Member since October 2016 Groups Private Equity investments as a high and were represented at the reviews of Peter Grosch Member since January 2016 level of judgement is required to value the the five largest Private Equity portfolio unquoted portfolio.
This accounts for 95% company investments.
Martine Verluyten Member since December 2013 of 3is proprietary capital invested in Private Retired in June 2017 The rest of this report sets out in more Equity.
The valuation of the Groups principal detail what the Committee did in the year.
Simon Borrows Member since May 2012 Infrastructure investment, its quoted holding in 3i Infrastructure plc, requires limited D A M Hutchison Julia Wilson Member since December 2008 oversight given that it is a listed company.
Chairman, Valuations Committee However, we devoted more time to 16 May 2018 Other regular attendees at the Committee meetings include the following: Audit Committee Infrastructure in the second half of the year Chairman: Deputy Chairman: Group Financial following the Groups first US Infrastructure Controller: Group General Counsel: the Co-Heads investment, Smarte Carte and the Groups of Private Equity: the external Auditor, Ernst & investments in the 3i Managed Infrastructure Young LLP Acquisitions LP and the 3i European Operational Projects Fund.
Further information on the Valuations Committees terms of reference can be At each meeting we received a detailed found on our website at www.
com report from the Group Finance Director recommending the proposed valuation of the Groups investment portfolio.
This report highlights the main drivers of value movement analysed between performance, multiple movements and other factors.
At each meeting we also reviewed selected assets for detailed discussion: examples of such assets covered during the year included Action, ATESTEO, Audley Travel, Christ, Euro-Diesel, Ponroy Sant, Scandlines, Schlemmer and Smarte Carte.
70 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 Governance The Committee focused on the following significant issues in the FY2018: Area of judgement What the Committee did Earnings and multiple assumptions The majority 68% of the portfolio is valued using a multiple of Earnings data is received monthly from Private Equity portfolio earnings.
This requires judgement as the earnings of the portfolio companies and monitored closely by management.
Actual earnings may company may be adjusted so that they are considered maintainable.
then be adjusted in managements proposed valuations, for example, We also apply a liquidity discount to the enterprise value using factors to reflect a full years trading of an acquired business, removing profit such as our alignment with management and other shareholders and from discontinued activities, any forecast uncertainty or to exclude our investment rights in the company.
Material adjustments are highlighted to the Committee in the quarterly report for review and approval.
There is also a significant degree of judgement in selecting the set of comparable quoted companies to determine the appropriate Management continued to adjust a significant proportion of multiples multiple to generate an enterprise value.
Multiples are selected by used where the longer-term view of the exit or multiple supports the reference to the market valuation of quoted comparable companies, use of a different, typically lower, multiple.
Notable changes in multiples M&A transactions and input in certain cases from corporate finance in a quarter are presented to the Committee and adjustments are advisers.
We also take into account growth profile, geographic reviewed by the Committee at each meeting.
location, business mix, degree of diversification and leverage The Committee reviewed the work done by management on refinancing risk.
The multiple implied by the quoted comparables may the potential use of a DCF valuation for Action and agreed with be adjusted if, in certain cases, the longer-term view cycle or exit plan managements assessment that, while providing an informative supports the use of a different multiple.
This has been a particularly reference point, the earnings based approach remained the important exercise in light of the movement in the quoted equity most appropriate.
markets over the period under review.
Private Equity assets are typically valued using a multiple of earnings.
However, alternative valuation methodologies, such as Discounted Cash Flow DCF valuations, may be considered as an alternative benchmark for potential values as a cross check relative to the earnings based value.
Assets valued using a DCF basis For assets valued using DCF techniques the key valuation judgements Material assumptions in the DCF valuations and changes to these relate to longer-term assumptions that drive the underlying business assumptions are reviewed by the Committee.
This may include thirdplan and cash flows and the decisions party support if available.
Sensitivity to assumptions is also noted.
on the appropriate discount rates.
Discount rates are selected by management with reference to market transactions, weighted average cost of capital calculations and other public data.
Any material changes are reviewed by the Committee and external advice is sought from time to time.
The Committee reviewed the particular valuation methodology and assumptions behind the valuation of the Groups investment in Smarte Carte.
Imminent sale assets At any point in time it is likely that a number of potential exit Assets that are within active sales processes are reviewed by the processes from the portfolio are underway.
Judgement is applied Committee including details such as the timeline to potential by management as to the likely eventual exit proceeds and certainty completion, the number and make-up of bidders for investments, of completion.
This means that in some cases an asset may not be execution and due diligence risks and regulatory or competition moved to an imminent sales basis until very shortly before completion: clearance issues.
Management propose a treatment for each asset in other cases the switch may occur on signing.
However, as a general in a sales process which the Committee reviews.
rule an asset moves to an imminent sale basis only when a process Although not an area of valuation judgement, the Committee actively is materially complete and the remaining risks are estimated to reviews the results of the back-testing that management prepares on all be small, given the amount of completion risk around unquoted assets disposed in each quarter to reconcile the price achieved with the equity transactions.
carrying value at the last balance sheet date.
Typically, differences are due to increased earnings, the unwind of the liquidity discount and the circumstances of the buyer or the competitiveness of the sales process.
This review acts as an important hindsight test of the fair value applied to assets in the quarters up to disposal.
The Committee focused on the disposal of ATESTEO and upcoming sale of Scandlines, which were at significant uplifts to the opening valuation and benefited in each case from the competitiveness of the auction process.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 71 Governance Accountability Valuations Committee report continued As part of its challenge and review process, External audit Portfolio trends the Committee: As part of its external audit, Ernst & Young At least annually the Committee Chairman considered the management information LLP review the proposed investment and management conduct a review of the provided to support the Committees portfolio valuation to determine that the valuation outcomes in the portfolio over review of the valuations, including valuation policy is being complied with the preceding three years.
The Committee managements responses to any and that there is consistent application and Chairman and Group Finance Director challenges raised by the Committee support for the underlying assumptions.
reported to the Board in May 2018 on the members or the external Auditor: As part of their year-end audit, and to key observations.
support their opinion on the Financial sought assurance from the external statements as a whole, Ernst & Young LLPs Auditor as to whether and how they had specialist valuations team review a selection considered each of these areas: of investments to provide assurance reviewed the consistency of the views of on their overall audit conclusion on the management and the external Auditor: appropriateness of 3is portfolio valuation.
and reviewed any differential between carrying values and those implied by the floating multiple of comparable quoted companies.
The Committee was satisfied that the application of the policy and process was appropriate during the period under review, and recommended the portfolio valuation to the Audit and Compliance Committee and the Board at each quarter end for approval by the Board.
In addition, the Committee is responsible for keeping the Groups valuation policy under review and recommending any changes to the policy to the Audit and Compliance Committee and the Board.
The policy is reviewed at least annually, with the last update in January 2018.
More information on our valuation methodology, including definitions and rationale, is included in the Portfolio valuation an explanation section on pages 150 and 151.
72 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018
