Governance Relations with shareholders Approach to Investor Relations The Board recognises the importance of maintaining a purposeful relationship May June July Sept Nov Feb March with shareholders.
The Group has a comprehensive Investor Relations Full-year AGM Performance Capital Half-year Q3 Capital programme to help existing and potential results 29.06.17 update markets results Performance markets investors to understand its activities, 18.05.17 26.07.17 seminar 16.11.17 update seminar strategy and financial performance.
Road shows 18.09.17 Roadshows 01.02.18 09.03.18 from 19.05.17 from 16.11.17 The Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director meet with the Companys principal shareholders to discuss relevant issues as they arise.
The Chairman seeks Annual and half-yearly Individual investors to engage with major shareholders on results presentations Individual investors are encouraged to corporate governance, strategy and engage with the Group and provide The Executive Directors present the annual management once a year, and is available feedback through the Investor Relations and half-yearly results to institutional more often as required.
Non-executive team and the Company Secretary, whose investors and analysts.
These presentations Directors are offered the opportunity to contact details are available on the website.
are webcast live on 3is website, and the meet shareholders.
on-demand webcast remains available on Annual General Meeting the website for a period of 12 months.
Board oversight The Company also uses its AGM as an The Executive Directors brief the Board Industry conferences opportunity to communicate with its on a regular basis on the implementation shareholders.
At the Meeting, business Throughout the year, the Executive Directors of the Investor Relations programme and presentations are generally made by and Investor Relations team also participated on feedback received from analysts and the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
in a number of industry conferences investors.
Any significant concern raised by The Chairmen of the Remuneration, organised by investment banks for their shareholders in relation to the Group is also Audit and Compliance, and Nominations institutional investor base.
These included communicated to the Board.
The Board also Committees are generally available to conferences organised by Barclays, Morgan receives periodic feedback from existing answer shareholders questions.
Business to Stanley, Socit Gnrale, Bank of America shareholders and potential investors through be discussed at the Meeting is notified Merrill Lynch, JPMorgan Cazenove and Citi.
3is corporate brokers, Bank of America to shareholders in advance through the Merrill Lynch and Barclays.
Notice of Meeting and covers matters Capital markets seminars such as the annual election of Directors, 3i held three capital markets seminars in the appointment of the Auditor and Investor Relations programme London in FY2018, including two on Action, the dividend declaration.
During the 3is largest investment, and one on four other Meetings with Meeting, shareholders are also asked assets in the Private Equity portfolio.
The two to approve the financial statements and principal shareholders Action capital markets seminars, held in reports of the Directors and the Auditor.
The Executive Directors meet with the May 2017 and in March 2018, consisted of In addition, shareholders are asked to Groups principal shareholders on a twicepresentations to significant shareholders and approve the Directors remuneration report.
yearly basis, following the publication of analysts by the 3i Chief Executive and the The 2017 Notice of AGM was dispatched to annual and half-yearly results and as required management team of Action.
These events shareholders not less than 20 working days during the year.
The Chairman and Senior focused on Actions business model and before the Meeting.
At that Meeting, voting Independent Director are also available strategy and on its financial performance.
on each resolution was taken on a poll and to meet with shareholders as required.
Recordings of the seminars and the the poll results were made available on the The Investor Relations team also manages presentation materials used were made Companys website.
a programme of engagement with smaller available on 3is website.
The Private Equity shareholders, implemented through regular capital markets seminar, held in September Website presentations and meetings.
2017, involved presentations on four of our 3is website provides a brief description of most recent Private Equity investments: 3is history, current operations and strategy, Meetings with potential investors Aspen Pumps, ATESTEO, Ponroy Sant as well as an archive of over 10 years of news and Q Holding.
The presentations were During the year, the Executive Directors and historical financial information on the delivered by the Private Equity investment and the Investor Relations team held regular Group and details of forthcoming events for partners responsible for those investments.
meetings with potential investors, as part of shareholders and analysts.
The presentation materials used during the arranged UK and international roadshows, to seminar were made available on 3is website.
communicate the strategy and performance of 3i.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 83
