Governance Leadership Board of Directors and Executive Committee Board of Directors Simon Thompson Simon Borrows Julia Wilson Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Non-executive Director since April 2015 and Chief Executive since 2012, and an Executive Group Finance Director and member of the appointed Chairman with effect from close of Director since he joined 3i in 2011.
Chairman of the Executive Committee since 2008.
Chairman of Rio Tinto plc.
Groups Risk Committee, Executive Committee and Investment Committee since 2012.
Member of the Supervisory as Deputy Finance Director.
Also a non-executive Previous experience Board of Peer Holding I B. V. the Dutch holding director of Legal & General Group Plc.
Until April 2017 Chairman of Tullow Oil plc.
company for the Groups and EFVs investment Formerly an executive director of Anglo American Previous experience in Action.
plc and chairman of the Tarmac Group.
NonFormerly Group Director of Corporate Finance executive director of AngloGold Ashanti Ltd, Previous experience at Cable & Wireless plc, having previously held a Newmont Mining Corporation and Sandvik AB.
Formerly Chairman of Greenhill & Co International variety of tax and finance roles at Cable & Wireless Senior Independent Director of Amec Foster LLP, having previously been Co-Chief Executive plc, Hanson plc and Tomkins plc.
Previous career in investment banking Officer of Greenhill & Co, Inc. Before founding the with N M Rothschild and S. G. Warburg.
European operations of Greenhill & Co in 1998 he was the Managing Director of Baring Brothers International Limited.
Formerly a non-executive Director of the British Land Company PLC and Inchcape plc.
David Hutchison Caroline Banszky Peter Grosch Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director since December 2013.
Chief Executive of Social Finance Limited.
Deputy Chairman of SLM Solutions AG as well Previous experience as being chairman of Euro-Diesel S. A. a 3i Previous experience Formerly the Chief Executive of the Law investee company.
Until 2009 Head of UK Investment Banking at Debenture Corporation p. l. c. from 2002 to 2016.
Dresdner Kleinwort Limited and a member of its Chief Operating Officer of SVB Holdings PLC, now Previous experience Global Banking Operating Committee.
From 2012 Novae Group plc, a Lloyds listed integrated vehicle, Formerly CEO and President of Diehl Aerospace to 2017, a non-executive director of the Start-Up from 1997 to 2002.
Previously, Finance Director and Defence Systems, Executive Vice President Loans Company.
of N M Rothschild & Sons Limited from 1995 to DaimlerChrysler Off-Highway and Managing 1997, having joined the bank in 1981.
She originally Director and Board Member of MTU Friedrichhafen trained at what is now KPMG.
now Rolls Royce Power Systems.
60 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 Governance Executive Committee Jonathan Asquith Menno Antal Kevin Dunn Deputy Chairman Managing Partner, PrivateEquity General Counsel and Company Secretary Deputy Chairman since April 2015 and Senior A member of the Executive Committee and the Responsible for 3is legal, compliance, internal Independent Director since July 2014.
Member of audit, human resources and company secretarial executive Director since March 2011.
Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Peer Holding I B. V. the functions.
A member of the Executive Committee the Risk and Audit Committee of Tilney Group Dutch holding company for the Groups and EFVs since joining 3i in 2007.
Limited and a non-executive Director of CiCap investment in Action.
Previous experience Limited, the parent company of Coller Capital.
Previous experience Prior to joining 3i, was a Senior Managing Director, Previous experience Joined 3i in 2000 and Managing Director, Benelux, running GEs European Leveraged Finance business Formerly Chairman of Citigroup Global Markets since 2003.
Prior to joining 3i, spent 10 years at after serving as European General Counsel for GE.
Limited, Dexion Capital plc and AXA Investment Heineken in a range of international managerial Prior to GE, was a partner at the law firms Travers Managers.
Non-executive director of Ashmore positions.
Holds an engineering degree from Delft Smith and Latham & Watkins.
Director of Schroders plc from 2002 University and an MBA from IMD.
to 2008, during which time he was Chief Financial Officer and later Vice Chairman.
Previously spent 18 years in investment banking with Morgan Grenfell and Deutsche Bank.
Stephen Daintith Alan Giddins Phil White Non-executive Director Managing Partner, PrivateEquity Managing Partner, Infrastructure Non-executive Director since October 2016.
A member of the Executive Committee and the A member of the Executive Committee and Chief Financial Officer and an executive director Investment Committee since 2010.
Also a nonthe Investment Committee since 2014. of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc.
executive director of Hill & Smith Holdings PLC.
Previous experience Previous experience Previous experience Joined 3i in 2007.
Prior to joining 3i, experience in Formerly Finance Director of Daily Mail and Joined 3i in 2005.
Prior to joining 3i, spent 13 years infrastructure investment, advisory and financing, General Trust plc DMGT from 2011 to 2017. in investment banking, latterly as a Managing including roles at Macquarie, WestLB and Barclays.
Non-executive director of ZPG Plc.
Prior to joining Director at Socit Gnrale.
Qualified as a Holds an MBA from London Business School.
DMGT he was Chief Operating Officer and Chief chartered accountant with KPMG and has a degree Financial Officer of Dow Jones and prior to that in economics.
Chief Financial Officer of News International.
He originally qualified as a chartered accountant with Price Waterhouse now part of PwC.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 61 Governance Leadership The role of the Board Matters delegated by the Board to the How the Board operates ChiefExecutive include implementation The Board is accountable for the long-term of the Board approved strategy, most success of the Company by approving the investment decisions, day-to-day Groups strategic objectives and monitoring management and operation of the business, performance against those objectives.
the appointment and remuneration of The Board meets formally on a regular basis, staff below the Executive Committee and usually in London, and, at each meeting, risk management.
There is a clearly defined schedule of matters reserved Day-to-day management of the Group is for the Board.
the responsibility of the Chief Executive.
To assist him in this role, the Chief Executive The Board is assisted by various Principal has established a number of additional Committees of the Board, which report to management committees, including the it regularly and details of their activity in the Investment Committee, which are outlined year are provided on pages 65 to 82. in the Risk management section of the Strategic report on page 45.
Role of the Chairman Role of the Chief Executive Role of non-executive Directors Leads the Board in setting its agenda, Direct charge of the Group on a dayScrutinise the performance of approving strategy, monitoring financial to-day basis and is accountable to the management in meeting agreed andoperational performance, and Board for the financial and operational objectives and monitor the reporting establishing theGroups risk appetite.
Seek assurance on the integrity of the Organises the business of the Board, Chairs the Investment Committee to ensuring its effectiveness, and maintains review the acquisition, management financial information and that financial controls and systems of risk management an effective system ofinternal controls.
Ensures that non-executive Directors Leads the Executive Management team receive relevant and accurate information to develop and implement the Groups Determine appropriate levels of to facilitate an open and effective strategy and manage the risk and the remuneration for Executive Directors and discussion.
This includes ensuring that the internal control framework.
Executive Committee and have a prime non-executive Directors receive regular role in appointing Directors and Reports to the Board on financial reports on shareholders views in succession planning.
and operational performance, risk on the Group.
management and progress in delivering Constructively challenge and help Responsible for the composition of the strategic objectives.
develop proposals on strategy: this the Board and facilitates the effective occurs at meetings of the Board, and in Regularly engages with shareholders contribution of non-executive Directors particular at the annual review meeting to and other key stakeholders on the and constructive relationships between discuss ongoing strategy, the most recent Groups activities and progress.
of which took place inDecember 2017.
62 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 Governance Effectiveness Performance and risk management the Groups strategic plan, related KPIs What the Board did in FY2018 Training and advice andannual budget: The Board met formally seven times during The Company has a training policy which FY2018.
In addition, the Boardheld a regular reports from the Chief Executive: provides a framework within which training strategy day in December 2017.
A table of for Directors is planned with the objective reviews of and updates on the individual Board member attendance at of ensuring Directors understand the duties Groups Private Equity and the formal Board and Committee meetings and responsibilities of being a director of Infrastructure businesses: is provided below.
This shows the number a listed company.
All Directors are required of full meetings of the Board and its regular reports from the to keep their skills up-to-date and maintain Boards Committees: Committees attended by each Director their familiarity with the Company and its in the year together with in brackets the business continually.
remuneration and pension matters number of suchmeetings they were eligible including remuneration philosophy On appointment, all non-executive Directors to attend.
and strategy: have discussions with the Chairman The Boards agenda is set by the Chairman.
and the Chief Executive following which the recommendations of the Valuations Board members and, as appropriate, appropriate briefings on the responsibilities Committee onvaluations of investments: executivesfrom the relevant business areas of Directors, the Companys business and are invited to present on key items allowing the Annual report and accounts, the Companys procedures are arranged.
the Board the opportunity to debate Half-yearly report andquarterly The Company provides opportunities and challenge on initiatives directly with performance updates: for non-executive Directors to obtain a the seniormanagement team along with thorough understanding of the Companys dividend policy and dividends: the executives.
business by meeting members of the reports on regulatory matters including senior management team who in turn The principal matters considered by the significant regulation affecting the Group: arrange, as required, visits to investment Board during the year in addition to matters orsupport teams.
formallyreserved to the Board included: review of balance sheet strategy: and The Company has procedures for organisational capability and Directors to take independent legal or succession plans.
other professional advice in relation to the performance of their duties.
In addition, Directors have access to the advice and services of the General Counsel and Company Secretary, who advises the Board, through the Chairman, on governance matters.
Attendance at Board and Committee meetings Non-executive Directors also attended a number of other Company meetings to increase their understanding of the principal risks in the business and the strength and depth of our people.
Audit and Nominations Remuneration Valuations Independent Board Compliance Committee Committee Committee Committee Total meetings held 7 6 3 5 4 Number attended: S R Thompson On appointment 7 7 3 3 4 4 S A Borrows Executive Director 7 7 4 4 J S Wilson Executive Director 7 7 4 4 J P Asquith Senior Independent Director 7 7 6 6 3 3 5 5 C J Banszky Independent 7 7 6 6 3 3 5 5 S W Daintith Independent 7 7 6 6 2 3 4 4 1 P Grosch Not independent 7 7 3 3 4 4 D A M Hutchison Independent 7 7 3 3 5 5 4 4 2 M G Verluyten Independent 2 2 1 1 0 0 0 1 1 Mr P Grosch is not considered independent because of his links with the Groups Private Equity business including his position as chairman of Euro-Diesel, a company in which the Group is invested.
Mr P Grosch receives directors fees and is a shareholder in Euro-Diesel.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 63 Governance Effectiveness Performance and risk management continued Performance and evaluation Risk management and Financial reporting internal control During the year, the Board conducted its In the context of the Groups internal control annual evaluation of its own performance and risk management systems, there are The Board has overall responsibility for risk and that of its committees and individual specific processes in place in relation to management and internal control, including Directors.
The evaluation was externally financial reporting, including: the determination of the nature and extent facilitated by Lintstock Limited in 2015 16 and of the principal risks it is willing to take to comprehensive system of key control and on this occasion the process was conducted achieve its strategic objectives and ensuring oversight processes, including regular internally by the Chairman with support from that an appropriate culture has been reconciliations, line manager reviews and Lintstock Limited.
The Chairman held oneembedded throughout the organisation.
systems access controls: to-one interviews with Directors informed by The Board has put in place an organisational the results of a questionnaire which had been updates for consideration by the Audit structure with clearly defined lines of completed by all Board members and the and Compliance Committee of accounting responsibility and delegation of authority.
The Chairman reported developments, including draft and new The GRC is a management committee the results of the evaluation to the Board.
accounting standards and legislation: formed by the Chief Executive.
Details of Overall, the evaluation concluded that the a separate Valuations Committee which the risk management framework can be Board continued to perform well.
Some areas considers the Groups investment valuation found in the Risk management section of for additional Board focus were identified policies, application and outcome: theStrategic report on pages 44 to 51. including further refinement of the strategic objectives for the medium term.
approval of the Groups budget by the The overall risk management and internal Board and a comprehensive system of control process is regularly reviewed by Following the review the Board identified financial reporting to the Board, based on the Board and the Audit and Compliance areas requiring greater time for Board the annual budget with monthly reporting Committee and complies with the Guidance discussion and areas for additional Board of actual results, analysis of variances, on Risk Management, Internal Control and reporting.
These included updates on scrutiny of key performance indicators Related Financial and Business Reporting longer-term succession planning across and regular re-forecasting: issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
the Group and medium-term investment The Audit and Compliance Committee portfolio development.
reports from Internal Audit on matters performed its annual review of the systems relevant to the financial reporting process, In his role as Senior Independent Director, effectiveness and reported its conclusions including periodic assessments of internal Jonathan Asquith led a review by the to the Board.
The process has been in place controls, processes and fraud risk: Directors of the performance of the for the year under review and up to the Chairman and subsequently reported back independent updates and reports from date of approval of this Annual report and to the Board and provided feedback to the external Auditor on accounting accounts 2018. the Chairman.
developments, application of accounting standards, key accounting judgements and observations on systems and controls: appointment of experienced and professional staff, both by recruitment and promotion, of the necessary calibre to fulfil their allotted responsibilities: and appropriate Board oversight of external reporting.
The topics covered by the annual Board evaluation included: Board composition and expertise: Board dynamics: time management and Board support: the performance of the Boards Committees: the Boards strategic and operational oversight: risk management and internal control: succession planning and human resources management: and priorities for change.
64 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018
