Governance Nominations Committee report Dear Shareholder Diversity I am pleased to present the Nominations Further to the publication of the Davies Committee report for the year ended Report on Women on Boards, and Code 31 March 2018.
My report explains the Provision B.
2.4, the Board strongly supports role of the Committee as well as its work the principle of boardroom diversity, of which this year.
gender is one important aspect.
The Boards aim is to have a diverse Board in terms of The Committees principal role is to ensure gender, industry experience, skills and that the Board has the necessary skills and educational background, and nationality and experience to enable the Group to deliver makes appointments on merit and against its current and future strategic objectives.
Membership during the year We regularly review the balance and composition of the Board, and develop We have a formal, rigorous and transparent Name Membership status appropriate succession plans, including process for the appointment of Directors, Simon Thompson Member since April 2015 and contingency plans.
with the objective of identifying the skills Chairman since June 2015 and experience required of new Directors, All Directors are subject to reappointment and identifying and appraising suitable Jonathan Asquith Member since March 2011 every year.
Accordingly, at the AGM to candidates.
In the case of non-executive be held on 29 June 2018, all the Directors Caroline Banszky Member since July 2014 Directors, the appraisal includes an will retire from office.
All the Directors assessment of whether potential candidates Stephen Daintith Member since October 2016 are eligible for and seek reappointment.
have sufficient time available to fulfil their The Boards recommendation for the Peter Grosch Member since November 2015 roles.
Specialist recruitment consultants reappointment of Directors is set out in assist the Committee with this process.
David Hutchison Member since November 2013 Our recommendations for appointment are put to the full Board for approval.
Martine Verluyten Member since January 2012 Directors Retired in June 2017 The external search consultancies we engage Directors biographical details are set out are instructed to put forward for all Board onpages 60 and 61.
Read more about the positions a diversity of candidates.
This year 60 Composition of the Board Jonathan Asquith served as Senior we worked with external search consultants Independent Director SID throughout Heidrick and Struggles JCA Group although Further information on the Nominations the year.
The SID supports me and I meet Committees terms of reference can be we did not make any recommendations to found on www.
He is also available to the the Board for appointment.
Heidrick and Companys shareholders in relation to any Struggles JCA Group had no other concerns that they may not have been able connections with 3i during the year.
to resolve through me, Simon Borrows or Simon Thompson Julia Wilson, or where you, as shareholder, Chairman, Nominations Committee consider these channels are inappropriate.
16 May 2018 Composition of the Board 25% 25% 38% Sector Gender Tenure experience diversity 62% 75% 75% Financial services 39 years Male Female Other 13 years 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 65
