Governance Additional statutory and corporate governance information This section of the Directors report contains the corporate governance statement required by FCA Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 7.2.
3i makes an investment in an existing The Board believes that this clarification Investment policy portfolio business as part of a reorganisation will provide greater certainty on the The UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules or restructuring of its investment in that applicable exposure limit treatment require 3i, as a closed-ended investment existing portfolio business.
The Board has when 3i restructures existing investments.
fund, to publish an investment policy.
therefore amended the investment policy to The Board also considers that the Shareholder approval is required for material clarify that the cost of any such investment, amendment to the investment policy is changes to this policy.
Non-material changes for the purposes of determining the non-material.
Consequently, the amendment can be made by the Board.
The Board has maximum exposure limit under the policy, does not require shareholder approval.
taken the view that the investment policy will be the cost of the existing investment The revised investment policy is required clarification as to how the maximum prior to the reorganisation or restructuring, set out in the box below.
exposure limit would apply in cases where rather than the cost of that investment at the time of the reorganisation or restructuring.
3i seeks to diversify risk through significant Investments are generally funded with a Investment policy dispersion of investments by geography, mixture of debt and shareholders funds 3i is an investment company which aims economic sector, asset class and size as with a view to maximising returns to to provide its shareholders with quoted well as through the maturity profile of its shareholders, whilst maintaining a strong access to private equity and infrastructure investment portfolio.
Currently, its main focus is on only on its level of debt, but also on the making quoted and unquoted equity and Although 3i does not set maximum impact of market movements and other or debt investments in businesses and exposure limits for asset allocations, it factors on the value of its investments.
funds in Europe, Asia and the Americas.
does have a maximum exposure limit that, The Board takes this into account when, The geographies, economic sectors, save as mentioned below, no investment as required, it sets a precise maximum 1 funds and asset classes in which 3i invests will be made unless its cost does not level of gearing.
The Board has therefore continue to evolve as opportunities are exceed 15% of the investment portfolio set the maximum level of gearing at 150% identified.
Proposed investments are value as shown in the last published and has set no minimum level of gearing.
assessed individually and all significant valuation.
A further investment may be If the gearing ratio should exceed the investments require approval from made in an existing portfolio business 150% maximum limit, the Board will take the Groups Investment Committee.
provided the aggregate cost of that steps to reduce the gearing ratio to below Overall investment targets are subject investment and of all other unrealised that limit as soon as practicable thereafter.
to periodic reviews and the investment investments in that portfolio business 3i is committed to achieving balance portfolio is also reviewed to monitor does not exceed 15% of the investment sheet efficiency.
exposure to specific geographies, portfolio value as shown in the last economic sectors and asset classes.
A higher limit of 30% will apply to the Companys investment in 3i Infrastructure plc.
For the avoidance of doubt, 3i may retain an investment, even if its carrying value is greater than 15% or 30% as the case may be of the portfolio value at the time of an updated valuation.
1 Where 3i makes an investment in an existing portfolio business as part of a restructuring or reorganisation of its investment in that existing portfolio business which restructuring or reorganisation may involve, without limitation, 3i disposing of all or part of its existing investment in the relevant portfolio business and re-investing all or part of the proceeds into a different entity which acquires or holds the relevant portfolio business or a substantial part thereof, the cost of that investment, for the purposes of determining the maximum exposure limit under this policy, shall, to the extent that the investment does not increase 3is exposure to the relevant portfolio business, be deemed to be the cost of 3is existing investment in the relevant portfolio business or, in the case of a partial re-investment, the pro-rated cost of 3is existing investment in the relevant portfolio business immediately prior to the restructuring or reorganisation.
If 3is investment includes a further investment, such that 3i increases its overall exposure to the relevant portfolio business as part of the restructuring or reorganisation, the cost of any such further investment at the date of such investment shall be added to the cost of the investment in the existing portfolio business as determined pursuant to the previous sentence.
84 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 Governance Previously, the third bullet point of the Appointment and re-election The Boards responsibilities Investment policy, set out in the box of Directors and processes opposite, read as follows: Subject to the Companys Articles of The composition of the Board and its Although 3i does not set maximum Association, the Companies Acts and Committees as well as the Boards key exposure limits for asset allocations, it does satisfactory performance evaluation, responsibilities and the way in which it and have a maximum exposure limit that, save non-executive Directors are appointed for its Committees work are described on as mentioned below, no investment will an initial three-year term.
Before the third pages 60 to 82.
The Board is responsible to be made unless its cost does not exceed and sixth anniversaries of first appointment, shareholders for the overall management of 15% of the investment portfolio value as the Director discusses with the Board the Group and may exercise all the powers shown in the last published valuation.
whether it is appropriate for a further of the Company subject to the provisions A further investment may be made in an three-year term to be served.
of relevant statutes, the Companys Articles existing investee company provided the of Association and any directions given Under the Companys Articles of Association, aggregate cost of that investment and of all by special resolution of the shareholders.
the minimum number of Directors is two other investments in that investee company The Articles of Association empower the and the maximum is 20, unless otherwise does not exceed 15% of the investment Board to offer, allot, grant options over determined by the Company by ordinary portfolio value as shown in the last published or otherwise deal with or dispose of the resolution.
Directors are appointed by valuation.
A higher limit of 30% will apply to Companys shares as the Board may decide.
ordinary resolution of shareholders or the Companys investment in 3i Infrastructure by the Board.
The Companys Articles of The Companies Act 2006 authorises the plc.
For the avoidance of doubt, 3i may retain Association provide for Directors to retire by Company to make market purchases of its an investment even if its carrying value is rotation at an AGM if they were appointed own shares if the purchase has first been greater than 15% or 30% as the case may by the Board since the preceding AGM, they authorised by a resolution of the Company.
be of the portfolio value at the time of an held office during the two preceding AGMs updated valuation.
The Boards diversity policies in relation to but did not retire at either of them, they held Directors are described in the Nominations non-executive office for a continuous period Committee report on page 65 and such Corporate governance of nine years or more at the date of that policies in relation to staff are described on Throughout the year, the Company complied AGM, or they choose to retire from office.
page 88. with the provisions of the UK Corporate Shareholders can remove any Director by Governance Code the Code published At the AGM in June 2017, shareholders special resolution and appoint another by the FRC in September 2016 and which is renewed the Boards authority to allot person to be a Director in their place by available on the FRC website.
ordinary shares and to repurchase ordinary ordinary resolution.
Shareholders can also shares on behalf of the Company subject to The Groups internal control and risk remove any Director by ordinary resolution certain limits.
Details of the authorities which management systems including those in of which special notice has been given.
the Board will be seeking at the 2018 AGM relation to the financial reporting process Subject to the Companys Articles of are set out in the 2018 Notice of AGM.
Association, retiring Directors are eligible for reappointment.
The office of Director Directors is vacated if the Director resigns, becomes Directors biographical details are set out bankrupt or is prohibited by law from being on pages 60 and 61.
The Board currently a Director or where the Board so resolves comprises the Chairman, five non-executive following the Director suffering from ill health Directors and two Executive Directors.
or being absent from Board meetings for Mr S R Thompson, Mr J P Asquith, Ms C J 12 months without the Boards permission.
Banszky, Mr S A Borrows, Mr S W Daintith, Mr P Grosch, Mr D A M Hutchison, and Mrs J S Wilson served as Directors throughout the year under review.
Ms M G Verluyten served as a Director during the year until 29 June 2017.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 85 Governance Additional statutory and corporate governance information continued Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to In the latter circumstances the Company may Matters reserved for the Board attend, speak and vote at general meetings make the relevant shares subject to certain The Board has approved a formal schedule and to appoint proxies and, in the case of restrictions including in respect of the ability of matters reserved to it and its duly corporations, corporate representatives to to exercise voting rights, to transfer the authorised Committees for decision.
attend, speak and vote at such meetings on shares validly and, except in the case of a These include matters such as the Groups their behalf.
To attend and vote at a general liquidation, to receive the payment of sums overall strategy, strategic plan and meeting a shareholder must be entered due from the Company.
annual operating budget: approval of the on the register of members at such time Companys financial statements and changes There are no shares carrying special rights not being earlier than 48 hours before the with regard to control of the Company.
to accounting policies or practices: changes meeting as stated in the Notice of general to the capital structure or regulated status There are no restrictions placed on voting meeting.
On a poll, holders of ordinary rights of fully paid shares, save where in of the Company: major capital projects or shares are entitled to one vote for each changes to business operations: investments accordance with Article 12 of the Companys share held.
Articles of Association a restriction notice and divestments above certain limits: policy on borrowing, gearing, hedging and Holders of ordinary shares are entitled has been served by the Company in to receive the Companys Annual report respect of shares for failure to comply with treasury matters: and adequacy of internal control systems.
and accounts, to receive such dividends statutory notices or where a transfer notice and other distributions as may lawfully be as described below has been served in paid or declared on such shares and, on respect of shares and has not yet been Rights and restrictions any liquidation of the Company, to share complied with.
Where shares are held on attaching to shares in the surplus assets of the Company after behalf of former or current employees under A summary of the rights and restrictions satisfaction of the entitlements of the holders employee share schemes, those participants attaching to shares as at 31 March 2018 of any shares with preferred rights as may can give instructions to the holder of such is set out below.
shares as to how votes attached to such shares should be exercised.
The Companys Articles of Association There are no restrictions on the transfer of may be amended by special resolution fully paid shares in the Company, save as In the circumstances specified in Article 38 of the shareholders in a general meeting.
The Board may decline to register: of the Companys Articles of Association Holders of ordinary shares enjoy the rights a transfer of uncertificated shares in the the Company may serve a transfer notice on set out in the Articles of Association of the circumstances set out in the Uncertificated holders of shares.
The relevant circumstances Company and under the laws of England and Securities Regulations 2001: a transfer to relate to: a potential tax disadvantage to the Wales.
Any share may be issued with or have more than four joint holders: a transfer of Company, b the number of United States attached to it such rights and restrictions certificated shares which is not in respect of Residents who own or hold shares being 75 as the Company by ordinary resolution only one class of share: a transfer which is not or more, or c the Company being required or, failing such resolution, the Board accompanied by the certificate for the shares to be registered as an investment company may decide.
to which it relates: a transfer which is not under relevant US legislation.
The notice duly stamped in circumstances where a duly would require the transfer of relevant shares stamped instrument is required: or a transfer and pending such transfer the rights and where in accordance with section 794 of privileges attaching to those shares would the Companies Act 2006 a notice under be suspended.
section 793 of that Act has been served by The Company is not aware of any agreements the Company on a shareholder who has then between holders of its securities that may failed to give the information required within restrict the transfer of shares or exercise of the specified time.
86 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 Governance 3i Investments plc is authorised by the FCA Share capital and debentures Portfolio management to, among other things, manage Alternative and voting policy The issued ordinary share capital of the Investment Funds AIFs.
It is currently Company as at 1 April 2017 was 972,808,424 In relation to unquoted investments, the the Alternative Investment Fund Manager ordinary shares and at 31 March 2018 was Groups approach is to seek to add value AIFM of five AIFs.
In compliance with 19 972,897,006 ordinary shares of 73 22 pence to the businesses in which the Group regulatory requirements, 3i Investments each.
It increased over the year by 88,582 invests through the Groups extensive plc has ensured that a depository has ordinary shares on the issue of shares to the experience, resources and contacts and been appointed for each AIF.
For four AIFs trustee of the 3i Group Share Incentive Plan.
through active engagement with the this is Citibank Europe plc, UK Branch.
In relation to At the Annual General Meeting AGM on Citibank Europe plc, Luxembourg branch, quoted investments, the Groups policy is to is the depository for one AIF.
29 June 2017, the Directors were authorised exercise voting rights on all matters affecting to repurchase up to 97,000,000 ordinary The Annual report and accounts meet the its interests.
shares in the Company representing investor disclosure requirements as set out approximately 10% of the Companys in FUND 3.2.
6R Tax and investment issued ordinary share capital as at 15 May of the FCAs Investment Funds sourcebook 2017 until the Companys AGM in 2018 or company status for 3i Group plc as a standalone entity.
This authority The Company is an investment company The Companys profit for the year is stated was not exercised in the year.
Details of the under section 833 of the Companies Act in its Statement of changes in equity and authorities which the Board will be seeking at 2006.
HM Revenue & Customs has approved its Financial position is shown on page 96. the 2018 AGM are set out in the 2018 Notice the Company as an Investment Trust under The Company performs substantially all of AGM.
section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 of its investment related activities through and the Company directs its affairs to enable its subsidiaries and therefore the Groups As detailed in Note 16 to the Accounts, it to continue to remain so approved.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive as at 31 March 2018 the Company had in income is considered to be more useful to issue Notes issued under the 3i Group plc Where appropriate, the Company looks investors than a Company statement.
to the provisions included within the Association of Investment Companies SORP.
Furthermore, in some instances the relevant The Articles of Association also specifically empower the Board to exercise the FUND disclosures have been made in relation to the Group on a consolidated Companys powers to borrow money and 3i Investments plc to mortgage or charge the Companys basis rather than in respect of 3i Group plc 3i Investments plc acts as investment as a standalone entity.
This is because 3i assets and any uncalled capital and to issue manager to the Company and certain of its debentures and other securities.
Group plc, as a standalone entity, operates subsidiaries.
Contracts for these investment through its group subsidiaries and therefore management and other services, for which reporting on the Groups activities provides Major interests in regulatory authorisation is required, provide more relevant information on the Company ordinary shares for fees based on the work done and and its position.
There have been no material costs incurred in providing such services.
The table below shows notifications of major changes to the Companys operations in the These contracts may be terminated by either voting interests in the Companys ordinary past year.
share capital notifiable in accordance with Chapter 5 of the FCAs Disclosure Guidance 3i Investments plc also acts as investment and Transparency Rules or section 793 adviser to 3i Infrastructure plc under a Companies Act 2006 which had been contract which provides for the services received by the Company as at 31 March to be provided and the related fees which 2018 and 1 May 2018. are payable.
Major interests in ordinary shares As at % of issued As at % of issued 31 March 2018 share capital 1 May 2018 share capital BlackRock, Inc 81,545,008 8.38 81,694,106 8.40 Artemis Investment Management LLP 52,625,885 5.41 52,637,910 5.41 Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd 36,939,402 3.80 34,161,832 3.51 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 87 Governance Additional statutory and corporate governance information continued Although the disclosures required by Directors conflicts of interests Employment FUND 3.2.
6R of and Directors indemnities The employment policy of the Group is the FCAs Investment Funds sourcebook one of equal opportunity in the selection, Directors have a statutory duty to avoid are covered in this Annual report they are training, career development and promotion conflicts of interest with the Company.
also, for convenience, summarised on the 3i of employees, regardless of age, gender, The Companys Articles of Association website at www.
This will be updated sexual orientation, ethnic origin, religion and enable Directors to approve conflicts as required and changes noted in future whether disabled or otherwise.
of interest and include other conflict Annual reports.
The Company 3i treats applicants and employees with The Alternative Investment Fund Managers has implemented processes to identify disabilities fairly and provides facilities, Directive requires 3i to comply with certain potential and actual conflicts of interest.
equipment and training to assist reporting obligations.
A summary of the Such conflicts are then considered for disabled employees to do their jobs.
remuneration policy of 3i can be found on approval by the Board, subject, if necessary, Arrangements are made as necessary the Companys website.
to ensure support to job applicants who The total amount of remuneration paid by happen to be disabled and who respond As permitted by the Companys Articles of 3i to its staff for the year was 83 million, of to requests to inform the Company of any Association during the year and as at the which 40 million was fixed remuneration requirements.
Should an employee become date of this Directors report, there were and 43 million was variable remuneration.
disabled during their employment, efforts in place Qualifying Third-Party Indemnity The aggregate total remuneration paid would be made to retain them in their current Provisions as defined under relevant to AIFM Identified Staff for the year was employment or to explore the opportunities legislation for the benefit of the Companys 17 million, of which 14 million was paid to for their retraining or redeployment within Directors and for the benefit of directors Senior Management and 3 million was paid 3i.
Financial support is also provided by 3i of one associated company and Qualifying to other AIFM Identified Staff.
to support disabled employees who are Pension Scheme Indemnity Provisions unable to work, as appropriate to local for the benefit of the directors of one market conditions.
Dividends 3is principal means of keeping in touch An interim dividend of 8.0 pence per Directors employment ordinary share in respect of the year to with the views of its employees is through employee appraisals, informal consultations, 31 March 2018 was paid on 10 January 2018. contracts The Directors recommend a dividend of team briefings and staff conferences.
Mr S A Borrows and Mrs J S Wilson each have Managers throughout 3i have a continuing 22.0 pence per ordinary share comprising a employment contracts with the Group with base dividend of 8 pence and an additional responsibility to keep their staff informed of notice periods of 12 months where notice is developments and to communicate financial dividend of 14 pence be paid in respect of given by the Group and six months where the year to 31 March 2018 to shareholders results and other matters of interest.
This is notice is given by the Director.
Save for these achieved by structured communication on the Register at the close of business on notice periods their employment contracts 15 June 2018. including regular meetings of employees.
None of the other Directors has a service contract with 3i is an equal opportunities employer The trustee of The 3i Group Employee Trust the Company.
and has clear grievance and disciplinary the Employee Trust has waived subject procedures in place.
3i also has an employee to certain minor exceptions dividends assistance programme which provides declared on shares in the Company held by a confidential, free and independent the Employee Trust and the Trustee of The counselling service and is available to all UK 3i Group Share Incentive Plan has waived staff and their families in the UK.
dividends on unallocated shares in the Company held by it.
88 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 Governance 3is employment policies are designed to Significant agreements Appointment of Auditor provide a competitive reward package which As at 31 March 2018, the Company was In accordance with section 489 of the will attract and retain high quality staff, whilst party to one agreement subject to a Companies Act 2006, a resolution proposing ensuring that the relevant costs remain at an renegotiation period on a change of control the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP appropriate level.
of the Company following a takeover bid.
as the Companys Auditor will be put to 3is remuneration policy is influenced by 3is This agreement is a 350 million multimembers at the forthcoming AGM.
financial and other performance conditions currency Revolving Credit Facility Agreement and market practices in the countries in dated 5 September 2014, between the Information required which it operates.
All employees receive Company, Barclays Bank PLC and a number by ListingRule 9.8.
4 a base salary and are also eligible to be of other banks.
The Company is required Information required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4 considered for a performance-related annual to notify Barclays Bank PLC, as agent bank, not included in this section of the Directors variable incentive award.
For those members within five days, of a change of control.
report may be found as set out below: of staff receiving higher levels of annual This opens a 20-day negotiation period to variable incentive awards, a proportion of determine if the Majority Lenders as defined Topic Location such awards is delivered in 3i shares, vesting in the agreement are willing to continue Capitalised interest Portfolio income over a number of years.
Failing agreement, amounts on page 30 is reviewed by the 3i Group plc Remuneration outstanding would be repayable and the Committee, comprising 3i Group plc nonfacility cancelled.
Share allotments Note 19 on page 121 executive Directors.
Going concern Where appropriate, employees are eligible Information included to participate in 3i share schemes to The Directors have acknowledged their in Strategic report encourage employees involvement in 3is responsibilities in relation to the financial In accordance with section 414 C 11 of performance.
Investment executives in statements for the year to 31 March 2018. the Companies Act 2006, the following the Private Equity business line may also After making enquiries, the Directors information otherwise required to be set out participate in carried interest schemes, considered it appropriate to prepare the in the Directors report has been included which allow executives to share directly financial statements of the Company, and in the Strategic report: risk management in future profits on investments.
Similarly, the Group, on a going concern basis.
objectives and policies: post balance sheet investment executives in the Infrastructure events: likely future developments in the business line may participate in asset-linked The Viability statement is included on page 47. business: and greenhouse gas emissions.
and or fee-linked incentive arrangements.
Employees participate in local state or Audit information The Directors viability statement is also company pension schemes as appropriate shown in the Strategic report on page 47.
Pursuant to section 418 2 of the Companies to local market conditions.
Act 2006, each of the Directors confirms that: a s o far as they are aware, there is no Political donations relevant audit information of which the In line with Group policy, during the year Companys Auditor is unaware: and to 31 March 2018 no donations were made to political parties or organisations, or b t hey have taken all steps they ought to independent election candidates, and no have taken to make themselves aware political expenditure was incurred.
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of such information.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 89 Governance Additional statutory and corporate governance information continued The Directors have a responsibility for Statement of Directors Directors report ensuring that proper accounting records are responsibilities For the purposes of the UK Companies kept which are sufficient to show and explain Act 2006, the Directors report of 3i Group The Directors are responsible for preparing the Groups transactions and disclose with plc comprises the Governance section on the Annual report and accounts in reasonable accuracy at any time the financial pages 58 to 90 other than the Directors accordance with applicable United Kingdom position of the Group and enable them to remuneration report on pages 73 to 82. law and those International Financial ensure that the Group financial statements Reporting Standards IFRSs which have comply with the Companies Act 2006.
The Strategic report, Directors report and been adopted by the European Union.
Directors remuneration report have been They have a general responsibility for drawn up and presented in accordance Under Company Law the Directors must taking such steps as are reasonably open with and in reliance upon English company not approve the Group financial statements to them to safeguard the assets of the law and the liabilities of the Directors in unless they are satisfied that they present Group and to prevent and detect fraud and connection with those reports shall be fairly the financial position, financial other irregularities.
subject to the limitations and restrictions performance and cash flows of the Group In accordance with the FCAs Disclosure and provided by that law.
The Directors consider that Transparency Rules, the Directors confirm to this Annual report and accounts, taken as a By order of the Board the best of their knowledge that: whole, is fair, balanced and understandable K J Dunn and provides the information necessary a the financial statements, prepared in Company Secretary for shareholders to assess the Companys accordance with applicable accounting 16 May 2018 performance, business model and strategy.
standards, give a true and fair view of In preparing the Group financial statements the assets, liabilities, financial position Registered Office: the Directors: and profit or loss of the Company 16 Palace Street and the undertakings included in the London SW1E 5JD a s elect suitable accounting policies consolidation taken as a whole: and in accordance with International Accounting Standard 8: Accounting b t he Strategic report includes a fair review Policies, Changes in Accounting of the development and performance Estimates and Errors and then apply of the business and the position of them consistently: the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as b present information, including a whole together with a description of accounting policies, in a manner that the principal risks and uncertainties that provides relevant, reliable, comparable they face.
and understandable information: The Directors of the Company and their c provide additional disclosures functions are listed on pages 60 and 61. when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs as adopted by 3i Group plc is registered in England with the EU is insufficient to enable users company number 1142830. to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance: d s tate that the Group has complied with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and e m ake judgements and estimates that are reasonable.
90 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 Audited financial statements Includes the detailed IFRS financial performance, accounting policies and notes to explain the accounts 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 91
