Governance and accounts Leadership B oard of Directors Richard Laing Doug Bannister Non-executive Non-executive Chairman Director Richard brings long-standing experience of investing Doug has over 25 years of experience in the in international infrastructure along with a deep transportation sector, having led businesses trading knowledge of investment companies and financial around the world for P&O Nedlloyd and Maersk Line.
He became Group CEO of the Ports of Jersey Airport & Harbours in 2011, with responsibility for the Islands Richard was Chief Executive of CDC Group plc from 2004 to strategic aviation and maritime assets.
2011, having joined the organisation in 2000 as Finance Director.
Prior to CDC, he spent 15 years at fide La Rue, latterly as the Doug provides experience in turnaround, restructuring and Group Finance Director.
He also worked in agribusiness and transformation of capital intense businesses to the Board, as well at  and Marks & Spencer.
His current as specific knowledge in transportation and distribution sectors.
non-executive appointments include chairman roles at Perpetual In 2016, Doug was awarded the Institute of Directors Jersey Income and Growth Investment Trust plc and Miro Forestry, and Director of the Year for large businesses.
director roles at JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust Board member since 1 January 2015, resident in Jersey.
plc and Plan International UK.
He is a Fellow of the Institute ofChartered Accountants in England and Wales FCA.
Board member since 1 January 2016, resident in the UK.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee and Management Engagement Committee.
Wendy Dorman Robert Jennings Non-executive Non-executive Director Director Wendy brings to the Board leadership and corporate Robert brings significant experience as a corporate governance experience, alongside expertise in financier in the UK, European and Asian infrastructure accounting and taxation.
In his career he has focused particularly on railways and water but also has experience of airports, Wendy has over 25 years tax experience, principally in the ports and ferries and renewable energy.
He previously taxation of UK and offshore investment funds, advising on tax worked in HM Treasury as a special adviser to the aspects of fund structuring, risk mitigation and compliance.
She led the Channel Islands tax practice of PwC from 2008 to transport team.
Wendy was Chairman of the Jersey branch of the Institute He has been Chairman of Sequoia Economic Infrastructure of Directors from 2014 to 2016 and is a former President of the Income Fund Limited since its inception in 2015, and is the Jersey Society of Chartered and Certified Accountants.
Department for Transport nominated non-executive director with She is a non-executive director of Jersey Electricity plc and Crossrail Limited.
Jersey Finance Limited and Chairman of the Audit and Risk He was Chairman of Southern Water until February 2017.
Committee of CQS New City High Yield Fund Limited.
He qualified asa Chartered Accountant early in his career and Wendy is a Chartered Accountant.
was joint head of UBSs Infrastructure Advisory business until he Board member since 1 March 2015, resident in Jersey.
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Board member since 1 February 2018, resident in the UK.
56 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Governance and accounts Paul Masterton Non-executive Director, Senior Independent Director Paul brings extensive experience in leading and developing large companies, mergers and acquisitions, together with an international business perspective having worked in the USA, Europe and Asia.
He spent 25 years with RR Donnelley, latterly as president for the companys businesses in Europe, Russia and India.
More recently Paul chaired and led the formation of Digital Jersey, a development agency, and brings a digital technology perspective to the Board.
His current non-executive appointments include Insurance Corporation CI Chair, Jersey Development Company Senior Independent Director, and the Channels Islands Competition &Regulation Authority.
Board member since April 2013, resident in Jersey.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Ian Lobley Non-executive Director Ian has been a Partner at 3i since 1994 and has been anactive investor and board member across Europe, Asia and the USA.
In his role as Managing Partner Asset Management, Ian has responsibility for investments in companies across a variety ofsectors and is an experienced board member across multiple geographies.
Over 30 years of investing and asset management, combined with an engineering background, allows Ian to bring valuable experience and insight into the assessment of new investments and the management of the portfolio to the 3 Infrastructure board.
He is amember of the 3i Group Investment Committee.
Board member since 6 May 2014, resident in the UK.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 57 Governance and accounts Leadership Governance structure The Board encourages a culture of strong governance across the business, and adheres to the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Leadership Effectiveness The Board provides leadership either directly The Board sets the strategic objectives and orthrough the operation of its Committees.
approvesand monitors performance against TheChairman is ultimately responsible for the budgetsand forecasts.
An evaluation process make-up and composition of the Board to best isregularly undertaken to ensure Board members deliverthe business strategy.
Further detail on leadership Further detail on effectiveness can be found on page 56 can be found on page 62 Relations with shareholders Accountability Maintaining strong relationships with both private The Board is responsible for establishing and andinstitutional shareholders is crucial in helping maintaining the risk management and internal us achieve our aims.
We hold meetings and events control systems and exercises oversight of the throughout the year to maintain an open and riskmanagement framework through the Audit transparent dialogue with them.
Further detail on relations with shareholders Further detail on accountability can be found on page 67 can be found on page 68 Remuneration Oversight of the Investment Adviser The role of the Remuneration Committee is to The Management Engagement Committee oversees determine and maintain a fair reward structure that the relationship with the Investment Adviser and attracts and retains the right talent and incentivises monitors its performance.
non-executive Directors to deliver strategic objectives and maintain stability of management.
Further detail on oversight of the Investment Adviser can be found on page 72 Further detail on remuneration can be found on page 73 The Directors statement contains the corporate governance statement required by FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2.
The Company is committed to upholding the highest standards of corporate governance.
It observes the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, a copy of which is available from the Financial Reporting Council website www.
uk, subject to the FCAs Listing Rule 15.6.
6 2, and to the extent applicable to the Company, given that it has no Executive Directors.
The Code applies to all companies with a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange, irrespective of their country of incorporation.
The Company complied with all the provisions of the Code for the financial year ended 31 March 2018 except as set out below: a the role of the chief executive, b executive directors remuneration, c the need for an internal audit function.
The Board considers that these provisions are not relevant to the Company as it is an externally managed investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no executive directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The Board adopted a code for Directors dealings in ordinary shares following the implementation of the EU Market Abuse Regulation MAR on 3 July 2016.
The Board is responsible for taking all proper and reasonable steps to ensure compliance with MAR by the Directors.
58 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Governance and accounts Leadership R ole of the Board Further details on the key responsibilities and areas of Overview focus of the Board and its Committees, as well as details 3i Infrastructure has no employees and its investment on attendance at full Board meetings, are set out on and portfolio monitoring activities are carried out pages 61 to 74. by 3i Investments plc, its Investment Adviser, under the Investment Advisory Agreement.
It is the Boards Changes to the Board of Directors responsibility to ensure that the Company has a clear On 31 December 2017, Steven Wilderspin stepped down strategy and that its Investment Adviser has the resources as a Director of the Company after 10 years service on and structures to support the delivery of this strategy.
the Board and Wendy Dorman was appointed as Chair The Board also has direct access to the Companys of the Audit and Risk Committee in his stead with effect external advisers, including the Companys corporate from 1 January 2018.
Robert Jennings was appointed as brokers, financial adviser and legal advisers.
The Board an independent non-executive Director with effect from receives advice on a range of subjects but particularly 1 February 2018. onthe infrastructure market, UK and Jersey legal matters and equity market issues.
The Boards responsibilities and processes The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall Board of Directors and Committees management of the Company.
It determines matters The Board is assisted in its activities by a number of including financial strategy and planning and takes all standing committees of the Board and, in undertaking investment and divestment decisions, taking into account itsduties, it delegates certain authorities and decisions the advice it receives from the Investment Adviser who to these Committees.
The Board reviews the membership provides reports and papers that are circulated to the of these Committees on a regular basis.
The Board Directors in a timely manner in preparation for Board and committee structure, together with a summary of the Committee meetings.
These papers are supplemented roles and composition of the Committees, is outlined by information specifically requested by the Directors in the table on page 60. from time to time.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of The Board has put in place an organisational structure the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
He is also toensure the efficient performance of its responsibilities.
responsible for organising the business of the Board and This is further described under the heading Internal setting its agenda.
In addition to the Chairman, there are control on page 65. currently four independent non-executive Directors and one 3i Group plc nominee, who is not considered to be independent.
The Committees have terms of reference, which are available on www.
com 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 59 Governance and accounts Leadership R ole of the Board continued The Chairman Directors The Chairman, Richard Laing, leads the Board in the The Board comprises the Chairman and five nondetermination and implementation of its strategy.
Biographical details for each TheChairman is responsible for organising the business of the Directors are set out on pages 56 and 57. of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting All Directors served throughout the year under review, its agenda.
The Chairman also acts as the Companys with the exception of Steven Wilderspin, who served appointed member to the Advisory Board for the until 31 December 2017 and Robert Jennings, who was 3iIndia Infrastructure Fund.
He receives no additional appointed with effect from 1 February 2018. remuneration for this role.
The Chairman facilitates No Director has a service contract with the Company, the effective contribution of all the Directors and nor are any such contracts proposed.
The Directors constructive relations between the Companys advisers, were elected or re-elected at the Companys AGM, with including the Investment Adviser, and the Directors.
Robert Jennings standing for election for the first time The Chairman maintains direct links with the Companys at the forthcoming AGM on 5 July 2018.
Each of the advisers and ensures that regular reports from them Directors has an appointment letter which reflects the are circulated to the Directors to enable the Directors best practice guidelines published in December 2011 by to remain aware of shareholders views.
The Chairman the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
ensures, with the co-operation of the Investment Adviser, that a programme of effective communications with Following the formal appraisal process of Directors, shareholders is in place, including with the Chairman and in accordance with Section B.
7.2 of the Code, the andSenior Independent Director, when shareholders Chairman will propose the election or re-election of all sowish.
Directors at the forthcoming AGM.
Copies of the appointment letters are available from the Senior Independent Director Company Secretary upon request.
Paul Masterton is the Senior Independent Director.
Inaccordance with the Code, any shareholder concerns canbe conveyed to the Senior Independent Director.
The contact details of the Senior Independent Director are freely available on the Companys website or through the Company Secretary.
3i Infrastructure plc BoardCommittees Audit and Risk Management Investment Remuneration Nomination Disclosure Committee Engagement Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Financial reporting, Acquisition, Director Board Timely and risk and internal monitoring remuneration appointments and accurate of Monitoring of the controls and disposal of size, balance and disclosure of all performance of the investments composition information Investment Adviser Wendy Dorman Richard Laing All Directors Paul Masterton Richard Laing Richard Laing Chair Chair Chair Chair Doug Bannister Wendy Dorman Doug Bannister Doug Bannister Doug Bannister Wendy Dorman Robert Jennings Robert Jennings Wendy Dorman Wendy Dorman Paul Masterton Paul Masterton Paul Masterton Robert Jennings Robert Jennings Paul Masterton Richard Laing See more on See more on See more on See more on page 68 page 72 page 73 page 71 60 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Governance and accounts The Directors appointments can be terminated, without Meetings of the Board compensation for loss of office, in accordance with the Articles.
Under the Articles, their appointments can inter A calendar of eight scheduled main Board alia be terminated on notice from the other members meetings was agreed at the start of the ofthe Board, and also on ceasing to be a Director if they year.
Due to the nature of the Boards fail to be re-elected at any AGM.
In addition to fulfilling close involvement in the operation of their legal responsibilities as Directors, the non-executive the Company and in making investmentDirectors are expected to bring an independent related decisions, a number of further judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, meetings are arranged from time to time investment appraisal and standards of conduct.
During the year, there are also expected to ensure high standards of financial were eight main meetings of the Board probity on the part of the Company.
As well as papers ofDirectors.
Inaddition to these meetings, for Board meetings, the Directors receive monthly there were sevenfull Board meetings management accounts, reports and information which arranged at short notice.
The Directors enable them to scrutinise the Companys performance attendance at main Board meetings is set against agreed objectives.
Number of Directors independence Directors attendance meetings while year to 31 March 2018 a Director Attendance All the Directors, with the exception of Ian Lobley, who Richard Laing 8 8 is the 3i Group nominee to the Board, are considered by the Board to be independent for the purposes Doug Bannister 8 7 of the Code.
The Board assesses and reviews the Wendy Dorman 8 8 independence of each of the Directors at least annually, 1 Robert Jennings 1 1 having regard to the potential relevance and materiality of a Directors interests and relationships.
No Director Ian Lobley 8 8 was materially interested in any contract or arrangement Paul Masterton 8 8 subsisting during or at the end of the financial year in 2 Steven Wilderspin 6 6 relation to the business of the Company.
As a non-independent Director who is not a member 1 Appointed with effect from 1 February 2018. ofthe Management Engagement Committee, Ian Lobley 2 Served until 31 December 2017. did not participate in the Boards evaluation of the performance of the Investment Adviser.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 61
